Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming News Reviews New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe review 'New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe' is 2D platforming wizardry By Steven Petite Close $60.00 Dynamic levels that always surprise Flying squirrel powers Plenty of secrets to uncover New Super Luigi U’s fast pace Nabbit and Toadette might ruin co-op for some New Super Mario Bros. U​ is a whole lot better than I remember it to be. I played it on its first launch day in 2012 on my then shiny new Wii U. Riddled with scatches and dust from neglect, I don’t have many good memories of my days playing the Wii U, and perhaps that’s part of the reason why I don’t remember ​New Super Mario Bros. U​ too fondly. As for ​New Super Luigi U​, the B-side to this brilliant platformer? It’s equally impressive on the Nintendo Switch, but for different reasons.
You know the drill A fresh perspective Run, Luigi, run DT Gameplay Our Take The release of ​New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe​ on Switch follows Nintendo’s delightful trend of bringing underplayed Wii U gems to a console that people adore. ​ Mario Kart 8 Deluxe reminded us in 2017 that it is the best Mario Kart game of all time. ​Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker​ gave Toad’s wonderful puzzle platformer new life. And now, ​New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe​ is here to make us (or at least me) rethink its place in Super Mario history.
Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder All Super Mario Bros. Wonder power-ups, ranked After tearing through both ​New Super Mario Bros. U​ and ​New Super Luigi U​ on Switch, it’s clear to me that the only Mario sidescroller that (maybe) has it beat is ​Super Mario World​. ​New Super Mario Bros. U​ Deluxe is a spectacularly designed platformer that never once rests on its laurels.
You know the drill As always, a jubilant gathering of friends in the Mushroom Kingdom is spoiled by the invasion of Bowser, Bowser Jr. and a bunch of their ​ Koopa buddies ​. They kidnap Peach, lock her in the top floor of her castle like Rapunzel, and slap Mario and friends far away with a giant mechanical arm. Is the extremely repetitive plot tired at this point? Yes, probably, but it only takes a few minutes hop, skipping, and jumping through the grassy Acorn Plains to remember that the plot of a Mario game doesn’t really matter.
New Super Mario Bros. U​ plays just like the classic SNES games. It has checkpoint flags and tall finish line flags followed by small castles. Many of the enemies are familiar such as Goombas and Koopa Troopas, and the boss fights take on the classic “three-hit and they’re dead” approach, fit with spinning shells you’ll have to avoid in between each successful whack. It’s so well-known at this point that you wonder when Nintendo will pull out the rug and change it to four or five just to see the reaction of fans.
Playing it now, six years removed from its lackluster launch, allowed me to view this excellent platformer in a new light.
It’s actually understandable, looking back, why ​New Super Mario Bros. U​ felt like a minor disappointment in 2012. The unfortunately-named “New” sub-series had been around since 2006 on Nintendo DS. Three like-minded entries had already arrived by the time it hit stores, including New Super Mario Bros. 2 for Nintendo 3DS just months later. Sure, ​New Super Mario Bros. U​ looked better than its predecessors, with glossy HD visuals, and lots of color and textures that gave off a 3D appearance. But it didn’t look ​that much​ better. The Wii U’s system seller lacked the flair and innovativeness that typically comes with Nintendo launch games (i.e.
​Super Mario 64 ​, ​The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess,​ ​ The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild ​).
A fresh perspective Playing it now, six years removed from its lackluster launch, allowed me to view this excellent platformer in a new light. For starters, it’s easily the most dynamic sidescroller in Mario canon, with shifting platforms of different shapes and sizes galore, a bounty of secret areas to discover, and enemies that actually pose a serious threat if you aren’t careful.
From the ice-cream infused Layer Cake Desert world to the underwater paradise of Sparkling Waters to the lava-soaked lands around Peach’s Castle, ​New Super Mario Bros. U​ makes great use of each of its themes, twisting and turning the gameplay, obstacles, and enemies with each passing level. The large stages are impeccably designed in a manner that ensures you’ll be revisiting them to see how they tick. And, of course, to secure any of the three hard-to-reach gold coins you missed the first time around.
Many of the levels and worlds were inspired by previous Mario games, but they never feel anything but unique. In a sense, ​New Super Mario Bros. U​ is a remastered greatest hits collection, with Nintendo adding new trappings and flourishes with all of the knowledge accumulated from decades of making 2D Mario games.
The large stages are impeccably designed in a manner that ensures you’ll be revisiting them to see how they tick.
The inventiveness of the levels extends to the overworld map as well. It’s not quite non-linear, but you have choices of which levels to play first (you can even skip an entire world if you so choose). Enemies circle some of the spaces on the map. If you run into them, you have to win a close quarters fight to move on. The map brims with life, which sets an appropriate stage for the levels it houses. Every time I hit a question block and saw the magical acorn roll, I got irrationally excited. The acorn turns Mario into a flying squirrel, and yes, it’s as cute as it sounds.
It’s largely the same experience as six years ago, but a few new additions do manage to add value. You can play as the nimble Toadette (who can power-up into super-floaty Peachette) and Nabbit, a character who cannot take damage from enemies (perfect for kids who are just learning how to play). The new characters make the four-player local co-op better when playing alongside youngsters (like my daughter), but four experienced Mario players may not like having to play as one of the easier options.
Run, Luigi, run New Super Mario Bros. U​ is the calm experience where you have the opportunity to take everything in. ​New Super Luigi U​ is the storm. It’s not just that you only get 100 seconds to complete each level, it’s that each level removes the breathing room between integral, make-or-break moments. Every moment of ​New Super Luigi U​ tests your reflexes and ability to make quick-witted moves on the fly, without slowing down to second guess yourself.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The world map, boss fights, and even the opening cutscene are the same as in Mario’s adventure, but it’s far more than a mere add-on expansion. While each level holds the same thematic layout as the Mario version, the levels are entirely different. Checkpoint flags are gone, so if you die during a boss fight, it’s back to the beginning. Luigi’s version of the adventure even includes new mechanics like swinging vines and throwable barrels. Just like ​New Super Mario Bros. U,​ each level adds a new wrinkle of difficulty, with new elements used sparingly to keep the experience novel throughout.
Every moment of New Super Luigi U tests your reflexes and ability to make quick-witted moves on the fly.
Luigi and the other three playable characters (Mario isn’t available) jump markedly higher than in ​New Super Mario Bros. U​. The fluttery jump doesn’t make things easier though. Instead, it makes landing where you want more of a challenge. The mechanic reminds me of the floaty controls seen in early 2D Mario games. It’s not the stop-on-a-dime Mario series platformer controls we’ve become accustomed to over the years.
It’s striking to play these games back-to-back rather than a year apart (​New Super Luigi U​ was originally released in 2013). While they have the same foundation, each one offers a unique experience. ​New Super Luigi U​ is easily the hardest Mario game since the SNES era, but it never feels unfair. Often times, you have to learn each level’s obstacles on the fly, memorize the jump pattern and progression, then put it altogether in your successful run. The chaos is part of its charm.
DT Gameplay Our Take New Super Mario Bros. U​ ​Deluxe​ gives an overlooked pair of Wii U gems new life on the Nintendo Switch. ​New Super Mario Bros. U​ is the most dynamic and inventive Mario sidescoller ever created, and ​New Super Luigi U​ offers one of the toughest tests in Mario history. ​ New playable characters ​ make ​Deluxe​ super approachable for players of all skill levels to enjoy one of the most joyous 2D platformers in recent memory.
Is there a better alternative? Yes, ​ Super Mario Odyssey ​ is the better Mario game on Switch, but ​New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe​ offers some of the best 2D platforming on Switch.
How long will it last? We completed ​New Super Mario Bros. U​ in about 10 hours and ​New Super Luigi U​ in about five. But collecting all of the coins and playing through the secret worlds could take you upwards of 50 hours.
Should you buy it? Yes, if you like 2D platforming fun, you should buy ​New Super Mario Bros. U​ ​Deluxe.​ Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked Mario Kart 8 Deluxe’s final DLC brings the series most iconic track All secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder Wonder no more: the new voice of Mario has revealed himself Nintendo is shutting down online services for 3DS and Wii U next April Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Some fans never thought it would happen, but the seemingly impossible has been achieved. Super Mario RPG, a remake of the Squaresoft-developed Super Mario RPG: The Legend of the Seven Stars, has been officially announced. Many people will be more familiar with Mario's two main RPG series, the Paper Mario and Mario and Luigi games, but it was this collaboration that was the plumber's first foray into the RPG genre. Since Nintendo didn't own the IP, it wasn't able to continue the series itself, leading to those other series that took many elements from Super Mario RPG. This classic holds a special place in many gamers' hearts, as it served as the introduction to RPGs for many gamers and includes a cast of unique characters we haven't seen since. Get ready to hit those action-commands and ensure your Flower Points are full as we go through everything we know about Super Mario RPG.
Release date Super Mario RPG is set to arrive on November 11, 2023.
Platforms Gaming It was a good morning for both Mario and RPG fans. Today's Nintendo Direct not only showed more of the new Super Mario RPG remake, but also unveiled a new port of Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door that's coming next year to the Nintendo Switch.
Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door - Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 Gaming Mario vs. Donkey Kong was announced during today's Nintendo Direct. Launching on February 16, this new title is the first entry in the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series to hit the Nintendo Switch and the latest in the series since its last entry in 2016.
Mario vs. Donkey Kong - Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
