Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Super Mario 3D Land Review By Adam Rosenberg Close There’s been a lot of talk in recent months about the Nintendo 3DS and what the future holds for it. You can frequently see one fan or another pointing to a particular upcoming game release as one that will “save” the handheld, as if it’s in some danger of disappearing. The fact is, Nintendo launched the 3DS with no “killer apps” to speak of and really a rather lackluster launch library overall.
Many fans have been looking to the ongoing holiday season as the time when we’ll see the 3DS come into its own. The reality hasn’t really lived up to that; Kid Icarus was pushed to a 2012 release and the only other major 3DS release we saw this holiday was a remake of StarFox 64 , and an upcoming Mario Kart that has been kept tightly under wraps. Until now. Nintendo revealed its Mario 3DS game at E3 over the summer, and now Super Mario 3D Land is here. If you’ve been waiting for a system-seller, this isn’t it. Make no mistake though, it might not be a killer app, but 3D Land is the most compelling reason to own a 3DS right now, and by a wide margin.
The game’s structure is built purely out of nostalgia, with players running Nintendo’s mustachioed mascot through an eight-world gauntlet, with each world containing a series of sub-worlds — 1-1, 1-2, 1-3, etc. — and a final “boss” castle or airship. Some of the latter day Mario trappings make their way in as well, such as the Toad House where you can receive and store some kind of power-up for later use. The core structure is immediately familiar and simple enough for any fan to grasp, however.
Best armor and weapons in Super Mario RPG and where to find them All Melody Bay song solutions in Super Mario RPG Our 10 favorite Wonder Effects in Super Mario Bros. Wonder I immediately felt the same sense of nostalgia diving in with my first 3D Land level that I did when I first tried New Super Mario Bros.
on the DS a few years back. While this is no longer strictly a 2D platformer, the vibe of those classic titles is in full effect. They look a lot nicer thanks to the 3DS’s newer tech, but the fan service at work in the game is immediately detectable. Whether you’re squashing a goomba, sliding down a green tube in an endless pursuit of more coins or simply running against the clock when the music tempo goes into overdrive for each stage’s final 100 seconds, this is undeniably Mario being placed back in his element.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 3D Land is most successful for mixing in a whole lot of new in the midst of all that nostalgia. You’ll feel shades of Super Mario Bros.
in the platforming, Super Mario Bros. 3 in the power-up storage (and returning Tanooki suit!!) and Super Mario 64 in the 3D layout of certain levels. You’ll collect three special star coins per level, and as that amassed collection grows, you’ll gain access to other levels. This is less an evolution and more a distillation of everything that turns fans of the Mario brand into repeat customers.
As much as 3D Land is inspired by the old, the levels you’ll run through are entirely new. There’s a mix of pure 3D platforming, pure 2D platforming and more than a few gimmicky — but extremely well-implemented — fusions of the two. Things start out easily enough; really, the first few worlds you’ll run through are a cakewalk, no question. It’s all just getting you prepared for the gauntlet of insane challenges that await you later on, however. It’s very much a crawl before you can walk dynamic in the progression of gameplay.
As I progressed through the worlds and found my attitude turning from “holy crap, this is easy” to “holy crap, THIS CURSED JUMP IS IMPOSSIBLE,” I was struck by a memory of going through the very same feelings the first time I sat down with the original Super Mario.
 At its best moments, 3D Land capably taps into that nostalgia while offering something entirely new. It’s harder than it was, but it also holds your hand more frequently; fail on a particular level enough times and the game will “reward” you with a golden Tanooki suit that renders you invincible to anything that stage can throw at you other than falling to your death.
The trick, of course, isn’t getting to the end of a stage but rather collecting each stage’s three star coins. Invincibility is helpful, but not game-breakingly so. It’s balanced fairly perfectly; Nintendo has become much more of a casual gamer-friendly developer in recent years, but 3D Land seems to recognize where the company’s roots lie.
Conclusion It’s not all perfect fun, however. While the 3D effects are used remarkably well, you’ll often want to turn them off since playing a Mario game — and I mean really getting into it — is rarely an idyllic affair. You’ll move your body around a lot as you play, which doesn’t work well with the portable’s 3D display features. The controls are also not always your friend. While they work well enough, there’s little that can be done to make exploring a 3D world more bearable on that tiny screen. Unfortunately, it’s a pretty big problem; you’ll die frequently because of missed or improperly aimed jumps, more than you ever would have in a 2D environment.
Overall, Super Mario 3D Land is a big win for Nintendo. I’m not sure I’d recommend running out and buying a 3DS just so you can play it, but it’s the first 3DS game I’ve encountered where I really feel confident saying that you must own it if you already have the handheld. Whether or not the 3DS ever reaches the heights of popularity that the DS did remains to be seen, but Super Mario 3D Land at least pushes us considerably further in the right direction.
Score: 8.5 out of 10 (This game was reviewed on the Nintendo 3DS on a copy provided by Nintendo) Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked Super Mario RPG: Sunken Ship password solution Super Mario RPG is halfway between a remaster and remake It’s Super Mario Bros. Wonder’s subtle changes that make it special All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming If you've got a Nintendo Switch Online subscription, Super Mario Bros. Wonder features a wide variety of online multiplayer functionalities, including the ability to see other players around the world playing alongside you and to lay down standees for them to use for revival in their own games. But more importantly, the game offers full-fledged online multiplayer with friends, allowing you to connect and explore the overworld and individual stages together as if you were seated on the same couch! You can even engage in races against your pals by hitting the Race Block at the beginning of many stages. Here's how to get started playing Super Mario Bros. Wonder online with friends.
Gaming Super Mario Bros. Wonder is home to so many creative levels teeming with unique gameplay mechanics that we've never seen in the Mario franchise, but it also features some of the most challenging head-scratchers in the series' history. As you make your way through the game's various worlds, you'll come across Search Party stages, which task you with finding extraordinarily well-hidden Wonder Tokens within a small, but densely packed area. One of the toughest of these trials is the Pipe Park level in Sunbaked Desert. If you're struggling to round up all of the hidden Wonder Tokens in this stage, we'll give you the details below so you can add another Wonder Seed to your collection.
Wonder Token No. 1 Head to the very top left of the level. There is a pipe here that you can push to grant you enough height to jump over the partially off-screen pipe on the left. You'll find the first Wonder Token on the other side.
Wonder Token No. 2 Return to the beginning of the level and go down the sixth pipe from the left. This pipe leads you to a new room. There is a hidden pipe located on the left on the bottom floor here, which will take you to the forefront of the room and allow you to pick up the second Wonder Token.
Gaming Super Mario Bros. Wonder is overflowing with things to collect, secrets to uncover, and plenty of new mechanics to discover and use. Among the fresh additions to the franchise in this outing is its badge system, which allows you to select a perk of sorts at the beginning of a match. However, to use the badges, you'll first need to find them throughout Super Mario Bros. Wonder's various challenges and Poplin Shops. When it comes to unlocking the final badge, though, you'll have to put in quite a bit of extra work. Here's what you'll need to do to score the quirky "Sound Off?" badge, which has a pretty funny and unique action attached to it.
How to get the final badge To get the final badge in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, you'll need to unlock a very well-hidden secret final level called The Final-Final Test Badge Marathon. Based on our testing, unlocking this ultra-challenging stage requires you to meet the following criteria: Collect every Wonder Seed Collect every 10-flower coin Grab the top of every flagpole Complete all other Special World stages Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
