Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Super Mario 3D World review By Jeffrey Van Camp Close Simplified take on 3D Mario Enough challenge for veteran players Cat Mario, Double Mario, and tons of other power ups Multiplayer is addictive and competitive Sometimes difficult to correctly jump Four-player camera isn't always user-friendly Storyline is as simple as ever The Wii U has been out an entire year, but it feels like we’re only now getting some games to play. Following in the footsteps of Wind Waker HD and Pikmin 3 , Super Mario 3D World is Nintendo’s latest attempt to drum up some interest in its next-gen competitor to the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It’s a successful bid, too.
Mario 3D World is a full-fledged sequel to Super Mario 3D Land for 3DS, and it’s one of the best Mario games we’ve ever played.
Back to basics The goal of 3D Land and now 3D World is to merge the exploration of latter-day Mario console games with the frantic fun of the earlier sidescrollers. Nintendo’s Tokyo team (which made the Mario Galaxy titles) hopes to teach people how to enjoy 3D Mario games while also satisfying longtime fans, the ones who have kept up with the series for 25 years.
All secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder Nintendo is shutting down online services for 3DS and Wii U next April Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is getting a surprise Switch release Here’s the general idea: Instead of a purely 3D world with a moveable camera and stars to search out, Nintendo has the camera locked at fixed angles You can still move it around, but you don’t have to. It usually stays at a fixed distance from Mario, which gives the game more of a 2D feel. Levels follow the old model too, with time limits returning to encourage players to race through to the finish instead of simply star-hunting. The levels are broken into short sections connected by pipes and cannons, and they always end with that familiar flagpole at the end.
Instead of entering a level to search for a new star mission, you enter levels and try to race to the finish like classic Mario games.
You can play as Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, Toad – each with unique abilities inspired by their appearance in Super Mario Bros. 2 – or all four if you have some friends in the room. Like Mario Bros. Wii , you and your friends can spend as much time trying to kill each other as working together. It’s a delicate balance between friendly griefing and sharing a team victory, though whoever gets to the flag pole first gets the most points. It never stops being a competition. Our only problem with multiplayer was the camera, which had trouble tracking four people at once.
Mario’s jumping and running abilities are mostly unchanged. Instead of simply picking up speed, fire and smoke come from you once you begin to run. Most other special jumps, like the long lump, side twirl, and butt stomp are still here, but Mario can’t do his trademark 3-stage running super jump anymore, which is a shame. Luigi jumps higher but moves more slowly, Peach can float for a few seconds at the height of her jump, and Toad is a speedster.
Off the beaten path The overworld feels like a merging of Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Bros. 3.
 Like SMB3 , you’re fighting through kingdoms of snow, desert, cloud, lava, and others. Though paths still open between levels and you have to beat them in order (mostly), you can also walk around the overworld freely and find secrets tucked away there. Imagine if you could step outside the lines connecting each level in SMB3.
 That’s how it works here.
The overworld kingdoms all follow a particular theme, but the levels themselves don’t – they’re just random fun, like a down-to-earth Mario Galaxy.
 Sure, there were a few more lava levels in the lava kingdom, and a couple more cloud-like levels in the cloud kingdom, but for the most part, each level is its own unique treat. That’s part of what keeps Super Mario 3D World from getting stale.
Nintendo isn’t afraid to break the integrity of its own game for the sake of a little fun. Every level is littered with new ideas and different types of challenges, from 3D puzzles (where you can’t jump) with Toad, to a Mario Kart homage, to several levels that may remind you of Zelda. New things constantly pop up. And if you fail five times in a row, the game gives you invincibility to help you. For all of the challenges you face, there are also plenty of pillows to absorb your failures so you don’t get too frustrated. Even better, most of these helping hands are optional.
Cats, cherries, and other powers Items and power ups add greatly to this variety. The most powerful new ability is Meneki-Neko, or “Lucky Cat” Mario, which lets you climb up walls (to an extent), run on all fours, and swipe at enemies. The Double Cherry power is the other new one; grab the power-up and a Mario clone appears next to the original, with the two moving in unison. Grab another of these power-ups and a third clone appears. Add another for a fourth. It’s easy to control an army of Marios since they copy each other’s movements, but it gets really tough to keep track of them.
Nintendo isn’t afraid to break the integrity of its own game for the sake of a little fun.
More familiar power ups like the Fire Flower, Mega Mushroom, Boomerang cap, and the Tanooki suit are also present, but you can pick up and use many temporary power ups, too. In one level we got to hold a potted piranha plant, which would eat every enemy we got close to, and in another, there’s a giant skating boot you can jump into, which feels like a clever homage to Mario Bros. 3.
 You wear other odd things from time to time as well, like Goomba suits and Question Blocks.
Veteran players, and those that like to explore, have something to do too. There are hidden collectibles in each level, including three Green Stars (much like the large golden coins of previous game). Sometimes these are just lying around, but often it takes some effort to find them all. Though the goal is to beat every level quickly and move on, 3D World does force you to collect enough of these Green Stars to enter each kingdom’s boss castle. If you’re slouching off, you’ll have to replay a few levels to get some green. It takes 130 Green Stars to get into Bowser’s final castle.
The old Bowser chase As usual, the reason why you want to fight Bowser is explained quickly and with little fanfare. The Mario gang has to rescue six Sprixie Princesses because Bowser has trapped them each in little bottles. It’s not exactly Shakespeare, but if we quit playing Mario because the storylines were stupid, we wouldn’t have beaten the first game.
Image used with permission by copyright holder We do have one last gripe: because this game uses 3D environments and the Mario series is full of flat colors, we sometimes had a tough time placing our jumps right. More so even than in older 3D Mario game. This could be a product of the new approach taken with the camera; it didn’t break the game for us, but it created needless frustration on more than one occasion.
Conclusion Though it’s mostly refining and sharing the ideas Nintendo came up with in Super Mario 3D Land , Super Mario 3D World is still packed with inspired ideas. Nintendo has been letting new, younger dev teams direct and contribute to Mario in recent years and you can feel their youthful enthusiasm when you play the game. One of the goals for the team was to bring back the magic that they felt when they played Super Mario Bros. 3 when they were young. We’re not sure if it’s there in 3D World , but this remains one of the best Super Mario games yet.
This game was reviewed on a Wii U using a code provided by Nintendo.
Highs Simplified take on 3D Mario Enough challenge for veteran players Cat Mario, Double Mario, and tons of other power ups Multiplayer is addictive and competitive Lows Sometimes difficult to correctly jump Four-player camera isn’t always user-friendly Storyline is as simple as ever Trailer Editors' Recommendations All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder All Super Mario Bros. Wonder power-ups, ranked Super Mario RPG: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Super Mario Bros. Wonder is getting a very red Nintendo Switch OLED Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct: how to watch and what to expect Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming It's been over a decade since we got the last new 2D Mario game, but that dry spell has finally come to an end. Super Mario Bros. Wonder has appeared and will give us a brand new side-scrolling adventure through the Mushroom Kingdom. While 3D Mario titles tend to get most of the excitement and praise from fans, there's no denying that the 2D games are just as creative and fun in their own ways. Even though they all follow the same basic formula of running through a stage in an attempt to reach the flagpole at the end, they all put fun and creative twists on how you get there that keep each title fresh. If you've been wondering what Mario's next 2D adventure will hold, here's everything we know about Super Mario Bros. Wonder.
Release date We have waited long enough for a new 2D Mario, and Nintendo seems to agree. Super Mario Bros. Wonder will arrive this fall on October 20.
Platforms Gaming A brand new 2D Mario title titled Super Mario Bros. Wonder was revealed at the June Nintendo Direct and will be arriving on October 20 for Nintendo Switch.
Super Mario Bros. Wonder - Nintendo Direct 6.21.2023 Gaming Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars is getting a full-on remake for the Nintendo Switch -- and it's coming this year. The new remake of the game got announced during today's Nintendo Direct, along with its November 17 release date, meaning yet another big title is joining the late 2023 launch party.
Super Mario RPG (Remake) Trailer | Nintendo Direct 2023 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
