Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy By Jon Martindale and Caleb Clark Close Streaming is as popular today as it's ever been, and if you're interested in giving it a go, you'll need a good microphone for the job. A solid gaming headset will do the trick, but a decent mic will be your best bet. The question is: Do you need to pay for a premium model? Not all mics are built the same, and some are better for the casual environment of streaming than others.
Here are the best microphones for streaming you can buy, with recommendation for a range of price options and use cases.
More More More More BEACN BEACN USB-C Broadcast Mic Best all-in-one Real-time noise suppression Quick and easy setup Built-in headphone amplifier Dynamic capsule USB-C No pop filter or stand included This advanced and dynamic capsule microphone is absolutely packed with features. Why does that matter? Because with any comparable microphone, not only will you not get what’s available in the BEACN, but also you may have to buy additional, expensive gear and accessories. It offers built-in processing with options like an equalizer, noise suppression, compressor, and expander – and no other components are needed. A pro-quality headphone amp allows you to plug your favorite headset right into the microphone.
Moreover, that headphone amplifier allows you to monitor your voice – and system sounds – in real-time to ensure you’re delivering clean, clear audio to your viewers and audience. The noise suppression also works in real-time, removing pesky background noise like loud computer fans, air conditioner sounds, and more.
To boost your showmanship, an integrated and fully customizable RGB light ring adds a little personality to your content. It can be used to give valuable feedback while you work, like showing mute or indicator modes. DSP-powered studio-grade effects are stored right inside the microphone, so there is no need to reconfigure every time, and you can call on them instantly.
It works with Windows and Mac and comes with a USB-C cable, headphone extension cable, and USB-C to USB-A adapter. It has virtually everything you need to get started and create some amazing content, but it will keep you going long after, too, with high-quality, premium audio and features.
Rode Rode X XDM-100 Best Semi-Pro microphone for streaming Awesome audio quality Great build quality Includes shock mount and pop filter USB interface is simple and intuitive Requires a USB-C port Expensive The Rode XDM-100 microphone is a high-end, semi-professional microphone for streaming that will make you sound fantastic when you're talking to your audience. It’s a cylindrical dynamic microphone that you connect with a USB-C connection, though there is also a 3.5mm connection for monitoring headphones. Although it's designed to be used with the company's Unify software, it includes a physical gain dial, so you can manually adjust that if you wish.
With the increased power delivery of USB-C connections, the Rode X XDM-100 shows that you can get away without using unwieldy XDR cabling and compatible hardware. It's also super straightforward. You just plug it in and you're ready to use it. You'll get more out of it if you install the companion software, but you don't have to.
It's a little on the expensive side, so this isn't the microphone to get if you're just starting with streaming, but it's a great option for anyone nonetheless.
Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now The best gaming PC Black Friday deals you can shop right now Blue Yeti Blue Yeti X Best beginniner friendly microphone More affordable than many alternatives Offers additional controls over standard model Simple and intuitive connection Included stand is sturdy More expensive than standard Yeti Blue If you close your eyes and imagine a streaming or podcasting mic, the Blue Yeti probably comes to mind. That’s because this mic was everywhere, and the Blue Yeti X is a worthy upgrade to one of the most popular mics around.
The new model comes with a four-condenser capsule array and four mic patterns, making it great for streamers who are recording in different environments or with other people. The Yeti X also has no DSP, which is a plus if you’re looking for a compression-free signal. Like its predecessor, the Yeti X is sturdy and functional. It also includes BlueVoice, a recording software that lets users apply DSP-like presets to the audio. It’s OK if you’re starting out, but users will likely migrate to their own software.
As a mic, though, the Blue Yeti X is another great option for streamers looking for a bit of flexibility and clear audio with no processing. Grab the original Yeti Blue if you want to save a little, but the Yeti X is worth the upgrade.
More Elgato Elgato Wave 3 Best for simple setup Simple setup Compact design Great sound quality Clipguard helps avoid clipping Lacks in-depth customization options There is a lot to love with the Elgato Wave 3, especially if you aren’t an experienced audio person. The Elgato Wave 3 was designed with podcasters and streamers in mind, and it provides a streamlined cardioid mic experience. It doesn’t have any other pickup patterns, which may not be best for people who want to fiddle with settings. But for someone looking for a mic that just works, the Elgato Wave 3 is hard to beat. The Wave 3 also includes free software to blend audio while you’re streaming.
The Elgato Wave 3 doesn’t come with a pop filter, but you can pick one up pretty cheap. It doesn’t have digital signal processing (DPS), but the Clipguard feature essentially does the same thing by limiting peaks in the signal. You can always disable this if you want a clean signal.
For a simple and convenient mic that’s been built from the ground up for streamers, the Elgato Wave 3 is our top recommendation.
More HyperX Quadcast S Best for advanced features Relatively affordable price Good sound quality Red recording lights are useful Works with PS4, PC, and Mac Simple to use Lighting can be a bit aggressve USB-only connection The HyperX Quadcast S is designed for gamers first, which should come as no surprise coming from HyperX. This is most notable in the programmable RGB, but it’s also a high-quality mic that will appeal to streamers whether it’s for gaming or just talking. It has four recording patterns, a gain wheel, and support for USB-C charging.
The shock mount is only made of plastic, which feels a little cheap compared to the rest of the package. But aesthetics aside, the Quadcast S is one of the best streaming mics you can get. It doesn’t offer any flexibility for bit rates or sampling, so this is another option best suited for those looking for simple functionality.
However, the package comes together to be one of the most feature-rich mics available, and its simplicity and eye-catching RGB makes it perfect for streamers.
Shure Shure SM7B Best premium microphone for streaming Is specifically designed to record voice and vocals Gives a professional sound to your recordings Excellent built quality Used by professionals the world over Expensive Heavy If you are starting to gain traction on your stream and need to bring your streaming setup to the next level, the Shure SM7B is one mic you should consider. This is an XLR mic, so you will also need to pick up an audio interface if you don’t already have one. It gives you a greatly improved sound profile over USB mics.
You may be spending a lot, but you get a lot with the Shure SM7B. It has a built-in pop filter to eliminate plosives, so you can talk freely no matter how close you are to the mic, and it has high-quality internal components. The Shure SM7B is durable and built to last.
If you’re ready to take your stream to the professional level, there’s no better way to do it than with the Shure SM7B.
More Razer Razer Seiren Mini Best budget microphone for streaming Compact Affordably priced Good sound quality Lightweight and portable Sound lacks the depth and quality of higher-end models Not great at isolating sound The Razer Seiren Mini is the smallest and arguably least impressive of its range, but it still gives you good sound quality in a very cheap and compact package. That makes this a great microphone for streamers on a budget, but it also acts really well as a backup mic for traveling or when there's a problem with your main microphone.
The short height is useful for packing it into cases, although working with it is a little awkward because of that. The lightweight design is great for transport, but less useful when you're trying to avoid knocking it over while recording. It doesn't have the widest range of features, but it's still much better than the kind of mic you'd find built into a laptop or most gaming headsets.
This microphone doesn't set the world on fire, but it's a solid upgrade over whatever you have right now and it's super affordable.
More Now that you have a great microphone for streaming, how about a webcam? Here are our favorite webcams for streaming.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today The best gaming laptop deals in Best Buy’s Black Friday sale The best 17-inch laptop Black Friday deals you can shop right now Gaming Web Best Products Streaming Services Computing VPNs are great for privacy, but they have a lot of other added benefits. For example, you can use them to get around geo-locked content, especially if you're traveling, or you can use them to encrypt your connection so that snooping noses have less of a chance to see what you're doing. Luckily, with the big sales going on in November, there are a lot of great early Black Friday deals on VPNs you can take advantage of. We've collected our favorite one below, as well as some alternatives, so be sure to click through and check the ones that sound interesting.
Best VPN Black Friday Deal NordVPN is probably one of the best-known VPNs out there and is even on our list of best VPNs out there. So, if you're looking to pick up a VPN, NordVPN is having a great Black Friday sale you can take advantage of and save yourself a considerable amount of money. The best deal it has is the 27-month Plus plan going for $108 instead of $286, which comes out to be $4 a month, and the best part is that it comes with many added benefits besides the VPN. As part of the Plus plan, you also get yourself malware protection, tracker and ad blockers, a password manager, and a data breach detector, which is a great deal for just $4 a month.
Computing It's not secret that the best graphics cards are expensive. If you follow GPU prices, you'll see the cost for a graphics card has continued to climb over the past couple of years. You don't need to empty your wallet for a solid gaming experience, though, and our roundup of the best budget GPUs proves that.
We have six GPUs here that are a perfect option for your budget PC build. For the purposes of this guide, we're defining "budget" as a GPU that's less than $300. We're also limiting the list to GPUs that you can actually buy. That limits our options to current and last-gen cards, but there's still plenty of value to find in the last two generations of GPUs from Nvidia, AMD, and Intel.
Web Best Buy is one of the key retailers when it comes to offering fantastic Black Friday deals. That means it's the perfect place to check out awesome TV deals, laptop deals, and even great sales on appliances too. With hundreds of options newly available, we've helped you out by picking out some highlights. Below, you'll find all the best Best Buy Black Friday deals on TVs, laptops, gaming PCs, headphones, appliances, and other items too.
Best Buy Black Friday TV deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
