Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Guides News Animal Crossing: New Horizons fish guide for November 2022 By Leijah Petelka and Joseph Yaden Close One of the nifty features of Animal Crossing: New Horizons is its ever-changing seasons that are a reflection of the real world. When it’s summer in real life, it’s summer in Animal Crossing , meaning there are always new things to enjoy as you play. As each month goes by, the selection of fish that appear throughout the game changes, so you’ll always want to be aware of the selection for any given month.
Fishing in Animal Crossing: New Horizons Northern Hemisphere Southern Hemisphere Sometimes, certain fish are only available for a few months out of the year, while others appear more frequently. It’s also important to consider which hemisphere you’re in, as this will impact the fish that appear in your area. For the month of November 2022, New Horizons has a lot of changes with its fish selection, and below, we’ll cover everything you need to know about the new additions.
Further reading: Animal Crossing: New Horizons bug guide When and where to find Animal Crossing’s rarest fish How to upgrade your Animal Crossing inventory size and tools Fishing in Animal Crossing: New Horizons Image used with permission by copyright holder Fishing in Animal Crossing: New Horizons isn’t too complicated, but there are some things you should be aware of. For starters, each fish will give you some indication of its presence, such as a shadow or fin. The size of the fish’s shadow is indicative of how big the fish is — which makes sense. So, if you’re prioritizing a specific fish that happens to be large, you can safely skip over the smaller shadows.
Lego’s Animal Crossing sets are every bit as adorable as the games Is Elden Ring cross-platform? Animal Crossing: New Horizons bug guide for November 2022 To fish, you need to have a fishing rod, which can be purchased from Nook’s Cranny (or crafted). Approach a body of water, such as a river, pond, or sea, and look for a shadow to appear. Typically, these shadows will indicate the presence of a fish, but sometimes you’ll only get trash instead. Throw your line at the fish’s shadow, let it sit for a few moments, and as soon as it “plops” down, reel in the line. If timed correctly, you’ll catch the fish. In addition, if you’re playing on a normal Nintendo Switch (as opposed to the Switch Lite), you’ll feel a vibration indicating it’s time to reel in the fish. As part of the 2.0 update that went live on November 4, 2021, you can also sometimes think of a new cooking recipe depending on the fish you catch.
Keep in mind that you can always sell your fish at Nook’s Cranny, but once a week, CJ comes to your island, and he actually offers more bells than you’d get otherwise, so it pays to sell to him instead. You must finish CJ’s fishing challenge before he’ll accept fish from you. CJ will appear anywhere around your island, so keep an eye out for him as you explore.
Changes in November Image used with permission by copyright holder For the month of November, the Northern Hemisphere has a long list of changes. Notably, the snapping turtle, catfish, tilapia, angelfish, betta, and many others have left. Replacing them are the bitterling, blowfish, tuna, blue marlin, and football fish, so keep this in mind as you fish.
As for the Southern Hemisphere, the dab, tuna, and blue marlin are no longer available. New are the frog, catfish, nibblefish, angelfish, betta, and others.
Below are the full lists of changes for both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres: Northern Hemisphere Bitterling: River, all day (900 bells) Pale chub: River, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (200 bells) Crucian carp: River, all day (160 bells) Dace: River, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (240 bells) Carp: Pond, all day (200 bells) Koi: Pond, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (4,000 bells) Goldfish: Pond, all day (1,300 bells) Pop-eyed goldfish: Pond, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (1,300 bells) Ranchu goldfish: Pond, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (4,500 bells) Freshwater goby: River, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (400 bells) Bluegill: River, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (18o bells) Yellow perch: River, all day (300 bells) Black bass: River, all day (400 bells) Pike: River, all day (1,800 bells) Cherry salmon: River (clifftop) pond, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (1,000 bells) Char: River (clifftop) pond, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (3,800 bells) Golden trout: River (clifftop), 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (15,000 bells) Mitten crab: River, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (2,000 bells) Guppy: River, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (1,300 bells) Neon tetra: River, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (500 bells) Sturgeon: River (mouth), all day (10,000 bells) Sea horse: Sea, all day (1,100 bells) Zebra turkeyfish: Sea, all day (500 bells) Blowfish: Sea, 9 p.m. to 4 a.m. (5,000 bells) Anchovy: Sea, 4 a.m. to 9 p.m. (200 bells) Horse mackerel: Sea, all day (150 bells) Barred knifejaw: Sea, all day (5,000 bells) Sea bass: Sea, all day (400 bells) Red snapper: Sea, all day (3,000 bells) Dab: Sea, all day (300 bells) Olive flounder: Sea, all day (800 bells) Tuna: Pier, all day (7,000 bells) Blue marlin: Pier, all day (10,000 bells) Ray: Sea, 4 a.m. to 9 p.m. (3,000 bells) Football fish: Sea, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (2,500 bells) Barreleye: Sea, 9 p.m. to 4 a.m. (15,000 bells) Coelacanth: Sea (raining), all day (15,000 bells) Southern Hemisphere Pale chub: River, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (200 bells) Crucian carp: River, all day (160 bells) Dace: River, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (160 bells) Carp: Pond, all day (300 bells) Koi: Pond, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (4,000 bells) Goldfish: Pond, all day (1,300 bells) Pop-eyed goldfish: Pond, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (1,300 bells) Ranchu goldfish: Pond, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (4,500 bells) Killifish: Pond, all day (300 bells) Crawfish: Pond, all day (200 bells) Snapping turtle: River, 9 p.m. to 4 a.m. (5,000 bells) Tadpole: Pond, all day (100 bells) Frog: Pond, all day (120 bells) Freshwater goby: River, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (400 bells) Loach: River, all day (400 bells) Catfish: Pond, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (800 bells) Bluegill: River, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (180 bells) Black bass: River, all day (400 bells) Cherry salmon: River (clifftop) pond, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (1,000 bells) Char: River (clifftop) pond, 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (3,800 bells) Golden trout: River (clifftop), 4 p.m. to 9 a.m. (15,000 bells) Guppy: River, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (1,300 bells) Nibble fish: River, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (1,500 bells) Angelfish: River, 4 p.m to 9 a.m. (3,000 bells) Betta: River, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (2,500 bells) Neon tetra: River, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (500 bells) Rainbowfish: River, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (800 bells) Sea horse: Sea, all day (1,100 bells) Clown fish: Sea, all day (650 bells) Surgeonfish: Sea, all day (1,000 bells) Butterfly fish: Sea, all day (1,000 bells) Zebra turkeyfish: Sea, all day (500 bells) Anchovy: Sea, 4 a.m. to 9 p.m. (200 bells) Horse mackerel: Sea, all day (150 bells) Barred knifejaw: Sea, all day (5,000 bells) Sea bass: Sea, all day (400 bells) Red snapper: Sea, all day (3,000 bells) Olive flounder: Sea, all day (800 bells) Squid: Sea, all day (500 bells) Giant trevally: Pier, all day (4,500 bells) Mahi-mahi: Pier, all day (6,000 bells) Oarfish: Sea, all day (9,000 bells) Barreleye: Sea, 9 p.m. to 4 a.m. (15,000 bells) Coelacanth: Sea (raining), all day (15,00 bells) Editors' Recommendations Is Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 cross-platform? Animal Crossing is the next Nintendo franchise to get the Lego treatment How to start the Burning Shores DLC in Horizon Forbidden West Animal Crossing Halloween event: costumes, items, dates, more Is New World worth playing in 2022? Animal Crossing Gaming After weeks of waiting, Indiana Jones has finally been added to Fortnite. Unlike many licensed characters, you don't need to spend money to play as Indy in the game. Instead, you have to complete a series of challenges to earn the skin, along with a set of Indiana Jones cosmetics.
In this guide, we'll walk you through completing all challenges to unlock the Indiana Jones skins in Fortnite.
See more Gaming The latest set of Fortnite quests is live, this time for chapter 3, season 3, week 2. You'll find this new batch of objectives to be a little trickier than before, but thankfully, none of them are too difficult. You'll need to visit specific spots on the map, utilize new mechanics introduced alongside season 3, and get eliminations with specific weapon types.
Here, we'll go over all the new quests, with guides for completing all of them in Fortnite.
See more Gaming During today's State of Play presentation, Sony shared a new trailer for Horizon Call of the Mountain. The clip gave a close look at its gameplay, which features several of the series' signature mechanics.
Horizon Franchise - State of Play June 2022 Trailers | PS5, PS4 & PS VR2 Games Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
