Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Bayonetta 3 review: excellent action game is the true queen of the multiverse By Giovanni Colantonio Close $59.99 Thrilling set pieces Outstanding combat Flexible difficulty Viola is a show-stealer Some filler chapters Frustrating camera and tech The prologue of Bayonetta 3 is more thrilling than the grand finale of most Hollywood blockbusters. The camera pushes in on a serene New York City day as the titular Bayonetta is out for a casual stroll, bag of bread in hand. Of course, everything goes to hell in minutes. A punk rocker wielding a katana falls from the sky, a massive kaiju barrels toward the city in a tidal wave, and Bayonetta is left kicking the crap out of a cruise ship full of mysterious beings as chunks of buildings float by. And that’s just the beginning.
Across the multiverse Let’s dance The shadow remains cast The over-the-top hack-and-slash game almost feels like developer PlatinumGames’ bombastic parody of Marvel movies.
 Over the course of 15 hours, I’d hear all about the multiverse, notice a visual homage to Captain America, watch characters swing around with grappling hooks like Spider-Man, see a city turn into a Dr. Strange-esque kaleidoscopic illusion, and even catch a few pointed references to the Avengers films. It’s as if Platinum set out to one-up Hollywood’s biggest popcorn machine and assert itself as the real master of spectacle — something it accomplishes in no time flat.
The best Nintendo Switch games for adults Bayonetta 3 developer PlatinumGames finally comments on voice acting dispute Bayonetta 3 report claims Hellena Taylor was offered at least $15,000 to reprise role Bayonetta 3 is the series’ wildest entry to date, mixing PlatinumGames’ knack for fast-paced combat with unbelievably entertaining set pieces that just get bigger and bigger. The massive scope of it all makes for some sloppy moments, both technically and narratively, but you’ll be hard-pressed to find an action game that’s having as much fun as this one.
Across the multiverse Bayonetta 3 is gaming’s own multiverse saga, beating the MCU to the punch.
 After New York is attacked by a plague of man-made bioweapons dubbed the Homonculi, Bayonetta learns that a mysterious villain called Singularity is looking to destroy the layers of the multiverse, leaving only their own Alphaverse. She agrees to team up with Viola — the riot girl who fell to Earth and who claims she met Bayonetta in another realm — to search for items called Chaos Gears hidden in other universes.
It’s hard to get bored for too long in Bayonetta 3.
The dimension-hopping narrative is a smart trick, as it gives the threequel a good excuse to change up the environment every few chapters. It begins in New York City, but Bayonetta is later dropped into Japan during a kaiju attack, a war-torn period of Chinese history, the deserts of Cairo, and more. It’s hard to get bored for too long in Bayonetta 3 when the adventure is constantly dishing out visual surprises till the very end.
The multiverse premise is admittedly a bit underused. Rather than spinning up inventive locations that play with the alternate reality idea, it’s mostly used as a way to transport players to Earth locations throughout history. It’s more of a time travel gimmick than a multiverse one, which ends up feeling like a bit of a missed opportunity in the long run. This is the lengthiest Bayonetta game to date by a few hours, but some of those extra chapters end up feeling like narrative filler as the game gets into its back half.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Instead of going all-out with locations, Bayonetta 3 swings for the fences when it comes to gameplay, going beyond the series’ normal hack-and-slash action (though there’s plenty of that, which I’ll get to shortly). One sidequest has me playing a 2D version of Metal Gear Solid where I need to stealthily explore a facility as Bayonetta’s witch pal Jeanne. Another chapter has me riding a demon spider as it scales the rooftops of a city mid-monster attack. A couple of moments like that with the series’ already larger-than-life battles and you’ve got the perfect recipe for a character-driven action game that drops a brick on the gas pedal and does spin kicks in the back seat while the car barrels down the highway.
Not all of its little gameplay diversions are as finely polished as its core combat, but I was rarely bothered by that fact. Even the sloppiest ones are still delightfully ridiculous left turns that make Bayonetta 3 a thrill to play from start to finish. If you’re looking for the perfect popcorn experience, one that’s 100% confident in its silliness, you might want to look to your Switch screen rather than the big silver one.
Let’s dance As with any Platinum game, combat is still the star of the show. Like previous games , Bayonetta 3 delivers plenty of fast-paced hack-and-slash combat. What’s always especially impressive about the series is just how deep the fighting systems go, as players gain access to what often feels like a limitless amount of moves and combos. That’s as true as ever in Bayonetta 3 , especially thanks to a host of new weapons that each have their own unlockable moves.
Witch Time returns too, and is still the series’ crown jewel. When dodging at the right moment (and Platinum is generous about when that moment is), time slows down for a few seconds, allowing Bayonetta to get some free combos in on her Homonculi foes. As per usual, it’s an immensely satisfying system that turns each successful dodge into a tangible reward.
Whether you’re a series veteran who wants to turn up the heat or a newcomer who’s just here to watch the fireworks, Bayonetta 3 has your back.
The threequel goes one step further to expand its tried-and-true formula, though. This time, players can hold down the left trigger to summon an infernal demon as long as they have enough magic stored up. While active, Bayonetta stands stationary while giving orders to a giant monster capable of dishing out massive damage. The creatures range from an enormous frog that can sing as a way of summoning poison rain to a literal train that can run through enemies as Bayonetta draws a path for it.
The system can be a little tricky to get the hang of as it goes against some of the muscle memory the series has instilled up to this point. During some of the game’s later fights, I’d find that I’d often summon a demon for only a few seconds before accidentally recalling it because my evasion instincts kicked in. Even so, the extra twist helps bring even more depth to the action. Whenever my health was low in a tense battle, I could summon Gomorrah and direct him to snatch my enemy up in his jaws and launch them into the air, giving me a little space to back off and get some breathing room.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Bayonetta has always been a series about showing off, turning every battle into a sacrilegious ballet of bats and bullets, and the third installment only ramps that up. It delivers more opportunities than ever to stomp demons into a fine powder thanks to unlockable remnant missions and optional challenges that offer some of the game’s most difficult fights. It offers some nice flexibility too, allowing players to scale down the difficulty or even equip an accessory that will boil the complex combat down to two attack buttons. Whether you’re a series veteran who wants to turn up the heat or a newcomer who’s just here to watch the fireworks, Bayonetta 3 has your back.
The shadow remains cast While it’s easy to forgive some of the game’s less graceful moments, there are some technical distractions that eat into its spectacle. The camera is the main offender, as it has trouble keeping up with all the action and often spins into supersized enemies. The technical limits of the Nintendo Switch are noticeable too, as cutscenes tend to feel a little choppy and images aren’t terribly crisp.
If this does end up being a send-off for the Umbra witch, Bayonetta 3 will become the textbook definition of “going out in style.” Of course, there’s another shadow cast over the entire project. That would be the controversy surrounding Hellena Taylor, Bayonetta’s original voice actress, who was replaced by Jennifer Hale in the sequel. Taylor made waves when she claimed that PlatinumGames offered her a mere $4,000 to reprise her role, calling on fans to boycott the game. A swell of support would sour the public perception on the game and its developer, though a report from Bloomberg would later dispute Taylor’s account.
 She’d later clarify her story, confirming most of the report’s accuracy, though she claims a few of its finer details are false.
Regardless of the actual story, I want to stress that the business drama has no impact on the quality of the final product here. Taylor’s performance is missed, especially during one key plot beat that doesn’t land the same without her in the role, but Hale does a perfectly fine job here. You can tell she’s imitating Taylor’s iconic voice, but I frankly don’t think it’s something that would have been scrutinized without the controversy.
On the subject of characters and the voice actors who portray them, I want to take a moment to celebrate Viola, because the new katana-wielding witch steals the show here. The clumsy punk rocker is a perfect foil to the ultra-confident Bayonetta. As a young witch trying to find her footing among the coolest heroes in the multiverse, Viola brings a human element to the historically over-the-top series. Her vulnerability leads to both some of the game’s most tender moments and its goofiest slapstick comedy.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It helps that Viola’s chapters are just plain radical too. Her playstyle is slightly different from Bayonetta’s as she blocks to activate Witch Time, can use a grappling hook to swing, and is able to freely attack when her demon, Cheshire (a delightfully wacky, gothic spin on Alice in Wonderland’s iconic cat), is active — all to the tune of an absolute banger of a pop punk battle theme.
I get the sense that PlatinumGames may be looking to pass the torch to her, whether than be in the mainline series or a future spinoff. At this point, that may be for the best considering both the messy situation surrounding the series now and the fact that she just plain rocks as a protagonist. If this does end up being a send-off for the Umbra witch, Bayonetta 3 will become the textbook definition of “going out in style.” Bayonetta 3 was reviewed on a Nintendo Switch OLED in handheld mode and on a TCL 6-Series R635 when docked.
Editors' Recommendations Bayonetta director Hideki Kamiya is leaving PlatinumGames next month Splatoon 3 gets new ‘chill’ stages and weapons this December How Splatfests work in Splatoon 3 Bayonetta 3 voice actress breaks silence amid casting controversy Splatoon 3: Tableturf tips and tricks Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming PlatinumGames has confirmed that veteran Mass Effect voice actress Jennifer Hale is the English voice actress behind the Umbra Witch in Bayonetta 3, replacing series staple Hellena Taylor.
According to a report from Game Informer, Taylor hinted to fans on Twitter last year that she would not be reprising her roleas Bayonetta in the upcoming sequel, but couldn't elaborate on the reason when asked as she was bound by a confidentiality agreement. Game director Yusuke Miyata said PlatinumGames held auditions to replace Taylor as the voice behind the titular character, and eventually offered the role to Hale.
Gaming While Splatoon has always walked its own path in terms of weapons, opting for more family-friendly firearms like ink pistols, paint buckets, and giant rollers, most serve a similar purpose to the arsenal you'd find in other competitive shooters. You will equip your main and sub-weapons for either close-, mid-, or long-range encounters, with the added wrinkle of also wanting to be able to cover a lot of ground area as well. Where things get interesting, in both Splatoon 3 and more traditional shooters, is when ultimate or special weapons are added into the mix.
Special weapons in Splatoon 3 are just as unpredictable yet simultaneously perfect for the theme of the game as the main weapons. To access these weapons in a match, you will need to build up a charge by inking as much ground as possible. Once fully charged up, you will be able to pull out one of these powerhouse tools in a key moment that can turn the tides of battle in your team's favor. There's plenty to pick from, and all of them sound good, but these are our picks for the best special weapons in Splatoon 3.
Gaming Leave it to Nintendo to make the least-traditional online third-person shooter on the market but also have it be such a smashing success that it spawned two sequels. Splatoon 3 is, of course, the latest in the squid-kid franchise that brings in tons of new features, modes, mechanics, and improvements to the series all about spraying ink over fragging enemies. The team didn't just take normal guns and weapons and make them colorful, though. They took full advantage of the concept of spraying ink to craft some of the most unique weapons in any shooter.
The amount of weapons available in Splatoon 3 is the largest yet. Many are returning from past games, but there are plenty of new additions that are tons of fun. That being said, many weapons are rather ... unconventional if you're new to the series. How can a paintbrush or a windshield wiper be a weapon, after all? If you're at a loss for what to arm yourself with for the best chances of winning that close Turf War, here are the best weapons in Splatoon 3.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
