Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Nintendo Switch shooter games By Joseph Yaden and Gabe Gurwin Close While the Nintendo Switch system is home to a variety of family games, platformers, and puzzlers, it also has a lengthy list of shooters. These range from third-person online shooters, to first-person single-player campaigns, and everything in between. Some are realistic, others are sci-fi, and some even blur the lines between genres.
But with so many options, it’s easy to be overwhelmed. In this list, we’ll go over the best shooters on Nintendo’s latest platform.
Neon White PC (Microsoft Windows), Nintendo Switch Shooter, Platform, Adventure, Indie Ben Esposito Annapurna Interactive June 16, 2022 Read less The best Mario games of all time, ranked The best Switch controllers for 2023 Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games DOOM Nintendo Switch Shooter id Software Bethesda Softworks May 12, 2016 Read less Metroid Dread Nintendo Switch Platform, Adventure MercurySteam, Nintendo EPD Nintendo October 07, 2021 Read less Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter, Adventure MachineGames Bethesda Softworks October 27, 2017 Read less Overwatch 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Blizzard Entertainment Blizzard Entertainment October 04, 2022 Read less SUPERHOT Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, Google Stadia Shooter, Puzzle, Tactical, Indie SUPERHOT Team IMGN.PRO, SUPERHOT Team February 25, 2016 Read less BioShock: The Collection PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure 2K Games, Virtuos 2K Games, Take-Two Interactive September 13, 2016 Read less Borderlands Legendary Collection PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter, Role-playing (RPG) Gearbox Software 2K Games, Take-Two Interactive May 29, 2020 Read less Fortnite PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, Android, iOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Strategy Epic Games Epic Games July 25, 2017 Read less The Outer Worlds PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Obsidian Entertainment Private Division October 25, 2019 Read less Warframe PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Digital Extremes Digital Extremes March 25, 2013 Read less Resident Evil 4 HD PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter, Adventure Capcom Production Studio 4 Capcom September 08, 2011 Read less The Binding of Isaac: Afterbirth+ Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure, Indie Edmund McMillen, Nicalis, Inc.
Nicalis, Inc.
January 03, 2017 Read less Nuclear Throne Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure, Indie, Arcade Vlambeer Vlambeer December 05, 2015 Read less Cuphead PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Platform, Adventure, Indie, Arcade Studio MDHR Studio MDHR September 29, 2017 Read less Rolling Gunner PC (Microsoft Windows), Nintendo Switch Shooter, Indie, Arcade Project Rolling Gunner mebius August 10, 2018 Rolling Gunner is a traditional horizontal shooting game exclusive to Nintendo Switch, and it will appeal to fans of Thunder Cross and Gradius.
It’s a challenging game — you’ll need to avoid bullets while attacking enemy ships — but you can customize your difficulty setting if need be. It features a marriage of modern and retro visual styles, with both forefront and hidden enemies. It’s not exactly revolutionary, but it builds on the classic shooter games of the 1990s and early 2000s.
Read less Turok PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter, Platform, Adventure Night Dive Studios Night Dive Studios, Limited Run Games December 17, 2015 Read less Apex Legends PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter Respawn Entertainment Electronic Arts February 04, 2019 Read less Metro Redux Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Role-playing (RPG) 4A Games Deep Silver, Koch Media August 26, 2014 Read less Splatoon 3 Nintendo Switch Shooter, Platform Nintendo Nintendo September 09, 2022 Read less Metroid Prime Remastered Nintendo Switch Shooter, Platform, Adventure Retro Studios Nintendo February 08, 2023 Read less Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Call of Duty games, ranked One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month How to rank up fast in Modern Warfare 3: best ways to farm XP The PS5 games with the best graphics Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming While the jumps have been getting smaller and smaller between generations, there's always a nice graphical bump to look forward to when picking up the latest hardware. We're long past the days of going from 16-bit 2D games to full-on 3D, and even the jump from SD to HD, but the visual improvements we got between the PS4 and PS5 are still striking. Not only are resolutions higher, but new techniques like ray tracing are now possible and starting to show up in more titles as we get deeper into the console's life.
Now that it's been out for a decent amount of time, and we have a wide selection of both upgraded titles and ones made exclusively for the PS5, there are a few that have risen to the top that anyone looking to show off the power of their new console will want to grab. Not only are all the games on this list visually impressive -- not just necessarily photorealistic, mind you -- but they're also a blast to play. Graphics don't make a game fun, but it just works out that the best-looking games on PS5 are also some of the best-playing. Here are our picks for the PS5 games with the best graphics.
Gaming Murphy is far more than a man in RoboCop: Rogue City. His robotic and cybernetic enhancements have made him the perfect crime-fighting machine, or so we thought. As it turns out, there is a lot of room for upgrades in your new body and multiple ways to invest your points. The tree is broken down into eight different categories, and each one has three unique perks sprinkled in that give you new and powerful abilities. Or rather, some of them do. Depending on how you want to dispense justice, there are plenty of skills that will be a complete waste of time to get. Before you go on your quest to serve the public trust, protect the innocent, and uphold the law, make sure you know the best skills to unlock in RoboCop: Rogue City.
Best skills to unlock The skill tree in RoboCop: Rogue City is broken into the following eight categories: Combat, Armor, Vitality, Engineering, Focus, Scanning, Deduction, and Psychology. There are 10 slots in each, with perks unlocking at the second, sixth, and final slots. Note that once a skill point is invested, you cannot change your mind later.
Shield You may be in a shiny metallic body, but you aren't invincible. Especially in the early game, you will find yourself a bit less tanky than you expect. Thankfully all you need to do is pump two points into the Armor tree to get the Shield ability. Once active, you reduce all incoming damage by 80%. If you're digging that feeling, you can even go to the next perk which is High Damage Reduction. This is a passive skill that automatically cuts explosive and high-caliber weapon damage by 25%. There's no need to max out this tree since Deflect isn't all that useful in the long run.
Fuse Boxes Recovery Taking less damage is great, but what about when you need to heal? The first perk in Vitality makes Fuse Boxes healing items that restore 50% of your health, plus increases how many OCP Recovery Charges you can store up to 4. Depending on how difficult you find the game, you can continue down to basically get a better version of this skill that makes Fuse Boxes restore all your health and cap your Recovery Charges at 5, or invest all the way and unlock Auto Regeneration to passively restore HP up to 75%.
Dash You're a walking tank, but that doesn't mean you have to move like one. Dash unlocks on the second node of the Engineering tree and gives you, well, a dash! You can use it to slam into enemies, get into or out of cover, or just maneuver around however you need. Movement in RoboCop: Rogue City is a bit clunky, so this makes combat far more responsive.
Enhanced Learning This will be a skill you need to spend a lot of time investing in the Deduction tree to get but should be done as early as possible if you're going to go for it. Enhanced Learning increases all XP gain by 30%, thus making all future skills easier to get. Plus you will get Enhanced Scanning and Enhanced Map on the way, which make doing side missions and gathering items around the map way easier.
Gaming Blink while playing one of the best city-building games, and you'll lose countless hours expanding your city, refining your infrastructure, and focusing your trade. Ever since the original Sim City, we've been losing sleep designing the perfect utopias for our digital citizens, and as time has gone on, they've only gotten more satisfying to build.
Although city-building games usually carry a steep learning curve and tons of content, beginners can dive into any option on our list and have a good time. The genre has expanded to include tons of big hitters, with exciting sequels like Cities Skylines 2 on the horizon. We have a mix of hardcore survival experiences like Frostpunk and minimalist builders like Islanders, so there's something for everyone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
