Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews ‘Dead Cells’ Review Raw and brutal, ‘Dead Cells’ will pummel you, and you'll like it By Diego Arguello Close Fast-paced combat Meaningful unlockables A vast progression system Great visuals and presentation Platforming sections feel underwhelming Shields are pointless After an extended period under Steam’s Early Access, Motion Twin finally released Dead Cells.
 Cleverly dubbed a “roguevania,” it blends elements from roguelite and Metroidvania titles such as on-going progression systems and abilities to access certain areas, bringing an intensely paced game that demands your full attention, with playthroughs that offer dozens of unlockable weapons and abilities. With endless replayability and a spark of originality, Dead Cells brings a sizable addition to a genre that’s become increasingly crowded over the years.
Hit and run You are the danger An endless progression Our Take Hit and run In Dead Cells , you start as a nameless warrior with a flaming orb for a head. After a brief tutorial, you find out that you’re a prisoner trapped inside a treacherous dungeon with an unending amount of areas to explore. After your first death (and there will be many), you’ll discover that your nameless warrior is actually a collection of cells that jumps from one body to another every time its host dies.
Red Dead Redemption is coming to Nintendo Switch and PS4 this month Steam launches new trial service featuring a free 90-minute Dead Space demo The best Skill Cards in Dead Island 2 The novelty of Dead Cells comes from its cryptic plot. Unlike comparable games like Hollow Knight , Dead Cells doesn’t lean heavily into environmental storytelling or dialogue with enigmatic NPCs. Instead, bits of story and lore are told through notes and interactive objects found inside rooms. It’s a game that demands you to hit hard and move fast, not allowing much time to think about the backstory of any certain enemy you’re facing.
The dungeon you explore is divided into zones, each with its own set of enemies, traps, and secrets to uncover. The longer you can survive, the stronger and more varied enemies become. Each zone brings its own set of challenges and secrets. While they aren’t exactly procedurally generated, enemy placement, hidden rooms and objects, and the appearance of elite mobs are always different.
Weapon variety is extensive but it’s not overwhelming; every weapon comes with details on damage output, elemental traits, and other special properties.
The same approach applies to shops where you can purchase new gear, like main and secondary weapons, skills, and items. Melee weapons such as swords and hammers, as well as ranged weaponry like Castlevania style whips, can be found in the shops, alongside complementary tools like turrets, traps, and grenades. You quickly find that weapons, skills, and items are your key to survival.
You are the danger Weapon variety is extensive but it’s not overwhelming. Every weapon comes with details on damage output, elemental traits, special buffs, and other special properties. Each has its pros and cons, and can be supplemented by a secondary weapon. A sledgehammer, for instance, might be slow to wield but one or two hits can deal a massive amount of damage. Pairing the sledgehammer with a secondary weapon and alternating between the two, can start a chain of multiple attacks. Although secondary weapons are attached to cooldowns, I can’t count how many times using them saved me from death.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Two key aspects that tie everything together are the stats and scrolls. Our decapitated protagonist doesn’t level up like a traditional RPG character. Instead, all progression is tied to stats. These include Brutality, Tactics, and Survival, each carrying a distinct color. All weapons, both primary and secondary, carries one of those colors, and their properties are increased depending on your stats.
Brutality makes your attacks stronger, while also increasing your health a bit. Tactics increase damage on long-range weapons and traps or turrets, while Survival mainly focuses on increasing your health pool.
Cells are the most valuable currency in the game and can be used to unlock new weapons and passive abilities.
Stats are leveled up by activating scrolls, which can be found randomly in each map. Some scrolls focus on only one or two stats, while others let you choose between all of them. Choosing which aspect of your hero to upgrade first is up to you, and deciding what’s best requires some experimentation. Just keep in mind that there’s scaling, so enemies inevitably grow stronger if you don’t stop your greedy power hungry tendencies in time.
That’s what I enjoyed most about my time with this indie game — how easy it is to become blinded by your own strength and abilities, especially after you pick up a powerful set of weapons that work effectively with the scrolls you have equipped. It truly makes you feel like you’re in control.
More game reviews ‘New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe’ is 2D platforming wizardry ‘Super Smash Bros. Ultimate’ is an ode to gaming that lives up to its name ‘Darksiders III’ is a Souls-like return to the apocalypse and we like it ‘Red Dead Redemption 2’ is the best open-world game of all time Speed and violence are the words that come to mind while I play Dead Cells as it demands you to act as quickly and as aggressively as you can. AAA titles such as Darksiders III might live up to the premise of delivering action-focused experiences, but the independent studio Motion Twin takes these expectations even further.
There is one area where this style didn’t translate well and it was in the platforming sections of Dead Cells.
 While its really tight controls and fluid movement feel immensely satisfying everywhere else, these sections demand precision that felt unnatural when compared to the rest of the game.
You lose all your momentum when you’re forced to stop and avoid obstacles like moving weapons and spikes. While I wasn’t expecting the nearly flawless platforming design I’ve experienced in games like Celeste , it felt disjointed enough that I’d rush through these sections, relying on the restorative properties of a weapon or potion to heal my wounds afterward.
An endless progression There is much to unlock in Dead Cells and luckily, these don’t require microtransactions. It will, however, require gold (used in stores and with certain merchants to upgrade your weapon), and cells. Cells are the most valuable currency in the game and can be used to unlock new weapons and passive abilities, all of which require a specific amount before becoming available.
You can acquire cells in timed areas in new zones. These appear close to the start of the map and can only be accessed within a certain time frame. Timed areas can nab you all sorts of treasures including a scroll, but the most important reward is the cells. Cells are lost entirely when the protagonist dies, amping up the challenge of the game even further.
While there aren’t many main bosses in the game, the ones that do exist pack a punch. The Concierge, for example, is a slow and massive brute that doesn’t seem like a match for the protagonist’s speed, only to become faster during the last moments of the fight, closing you in with fire and long jumps ending in a stomp attack.
Dark, neon visuals and an engaging soundtrack further compliment Dead Cells, bringing an incredibly challenging, fast-paced experience that is perfect for both short sessions and weekend marathons. It may not be a story-heavy experience, but that doesn’t mean it’s not without purpose. Each attack and action has meaning, with the potential to propel your forward or send you hurtling back.
Dead Cells guarantees fresh runs each time, and experimenting with different weapons, abilities, and gear never gets old in your pursuit of surviving through its tumultuous dungeons.
Our Take Dead Cells is freneticism in its purest form, and one of the few games in the genre that can grant a sense of progression and skill in the first few minutes, without demanding a grind from the player or a slow-paced leveling system. It takes you in with a powerful soundtrack and a gorgeous visual style, but it’s the combat and how quick and responsive the controls are that make it stand out from the rest.
Is there a better alternative? No, while there are many games that fall into the same category as Dead Cells, it brings some of the most satisfying fast-paced combat seen in the roguelike Metroidvania genres.
How long will it last? There is enough content to keep you busy for dozens of hours, especially with many weapons and abilities are locked from the beginning. The more you play, the more varied your next runs will become.
Additionally, depending on the platform you’re playing the game on, you can take part of daily challenges and leaderboards to compete online.
Should you buy it? Dead Cells is for determined players that seek out a challenge. If you love fast paced combat and the ability to unlock a huge pool of items, abilities, and secrets with several playthroughs, then you’ll love Dead Cells.
Editors' Recommendations One of the year’s best reviewed games is coming to Xbox Game Pass Dead By Daylight adds its most fearsome monster yet: Nicolas Cage The best weapon mods and perks in Dead Island 2 Which character should you pick in Dead Island 2? All Curveball locations in Dead Island 2 Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming eThere are going to be tons of things blocking your progress when trying to escape LA in Dead Island 2. Aside from the, you know, hordes of zombies, you will find plenty of gates and doors that need power to open. Most can be worked around by installing a battery or circuit breaker, but some require something else. Fuses aren't required at any point in the main story, but instead are limited keys that hide away some of the game's best loot. If you've been spotting all these gates and garage doors taunting you to open them, but lack the fuses to do so, we'll tell you how you can get your hands on some in Dead Island 2.
Where to get fuses in Dead Island 2 Unlike batteries or circuit breakers, fuses won't be found anywhere on the map while exploring. Instead, the only way to get these electrical devices is to purchase them. Obviously, your local hardware store isn't open for business anymore, so your options are limited to the vendors you come across such as Carlos in Emma's house or Ezekiel on The Pier. No matter who you get them from, you're going to be paying a premium. Each fuse costs $1,500, and the sellers usually only hold a few at a time. Even if they had the stock and you had the cash, your character can only hold three fuses at a time before needing to spend them to get more.
Gaming Three months or so in, 2023 has been the year of the remake, as some of this year's best-reviewed games have been new versions of Resident Evil 4, Metroid Prime, and Dead Space. Now, developer Fraser Brumley is looking to go the opposite way. Dead Space Demake is available for free on itch.io and clues us in on what it might have felt like if Visceral Games released Dead Space in the PlayStation 1 era.
It's not even close to the full game -- you should be able to get through it in around a half-hour -- Brumley's Dead Space Demake is a novel little Unreal Engine indie project that adapts some of Dead Space's iconic gameplay moments and locations into a much more retro-feeling formula. The PS1-era aesthetic works shockingly well with Dead Space's formula. The rough, pixelated edges of the space station corridors and the Necromorphs that attack Issac within them are just as creepy as the remake's highly detailed versions of these same things.
Even if you've played the original and EA Motive's remake, the Dead Space Demake should still be a novel experience as you now have another way to experience some of the best parts of one of the greatest horror games of the past two decades. It speaks to the appeal of something Digital Trends has written about in the past, which is that remakes that reinvent and reimagine something well-known are just as interesting as the remakes that give an already great game a simple coat of fresh paint.
Dead Space Demake is available for free on itch.io, although you should also pick up the Dead Space remake for PC, PS5, or Xbox Series X/S if you want to compare the two.
Gaming Believe it or not, Dead Island 2 is not only still real, but it's actually coming out. For those who've been following the troubled trajectory this title has had, you know this is a story almost 10 years in the making. Originally revealed in 2014, Dead Island 2 has died and been resurrected no less than twice, with a new development team taking up the project each time. The average person probably assumed the game was scrapped years ago, but for those who never gave up hope, your faith has been rewarded.
Leaks did take some of the excitement out of Dead Island 2's big re-reveal during Gamescom 2022, but it couldn't stifle what looks to be a game far better than its beleaguered history would lead you to believe. Since so much has changed over the course of development, let alone with the entire gaming landscape, plenty of people may be wondering what all the excitement over this zombie game is all about. Grab yourself a blunt object and get ready to smash some zombie skulls as we run through everything we know about Dead Island 2.
Release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
