Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to play Minecraft multiplayer By Jon Bitner Close Minecraft is well-suited for solo play, but having a few friends join in on the action makes the experience all the more enjoyable. Setting up a multiplayer game in Minecraft is a simple process, but it varies slightly based on which platform you’re using and whether your friends are nearby or half a world away. Here are all the ways to play Minecraft multiplayer.
The basics of Minecraft multiplayer Minecraft: Java Edition LAN setup Minecraft: Bedrock Edition LAN setup Creating an online server Creating a Minecraft: Java Edition online server Creating a Minecraft: Bedrock Edition online server Using Minecraft Realms Split-screen Difficulty Duration What You Need Minecraft Stable internet connection The basics of Minecraft multiplayer Minecraft gives users four different ways to connect with each other, each one with its own advantages and disadvantages. But before you jump into a game with your friends, it’s important to verify that all players attempting to join the multiplayer session are running the same version of the game. This means you’ll want to check that your version is updated with the latest content patches; otherwise, you’ll run into some bumps while trying to meet up with your friends. This can be done by heading over to your preferred platforms app store, or by browsing the Minecraft target="_blank"> Help Center on PC.
You’ll also want to make sure all interested parties are running the same edition of Minecraft — either Java or Bedrock. Java is only available to PC players, so if you’re playing on mobile or console, that’s one less thing you need to worry about. Once you’re certain that all players are running the same version and edition of the game, you’re ready to start adventuring together.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Minecraft: Java Edition LAN setup If you’re looking to quickly set up a world for friends who are in the same room as you, look no further than setting up a LAN game. As long as all players are connected to the same network, they’ll be able to see and join your server.
Here’s how to start a LAN game for those of you running the Java Edition: Step 1: Start up Minecraft and select Single Player.
Step 2: After the world has finished loading, pull up the Menu screen by pressing the Esc key.
Step 3: Select the Open to LAN option.
Step 4: Choose the game mode you wish to host.
Step 5: Select Start LAN World.
Step 6: Players who want to join the game should select Multiplayer from the main menu.
Step 7: If they are connected to the same network, your LAN game should be detected.
Minecraft: Bedrock Edition LAN setup Things are a bit easier if you’re playing the Bedrock Edition on PC, Xbox, iOS, or Android.
 Here’s all you’ll need to do to start a LAN game: Step 1: Start the game and press Play , then create or edit the world by pressing the pen button.
Step 2: Select the Multiplayer option and turn on the Visible to LAN option.
Step 3: Launch the world.
Step 4: Players can join the game by going to the Play menu, navigating to the Friends section, and looking for the corresponding LAN game.
Brittany Vincent/Digital Trends Creating an online server Things get a bit more complex when you decide to host your own server. These platforms will allow multiple players to join a single session, regardless of location in the world. Creating your own server is ideal for people who want a lot of control over all aspects of their world, and don’t mind working through a bit of technical jargon.
Minecraft has a bunch of tutorials that detail the server setup process, but here’s a quick overview of how to launch and join them.
Creating a Minecraft: Java Edition online server Step 1: To create your own server, you’ll need to install the server file from the official Minecraft target="_blank"> website.
Step 2: Once the server has been created by you or your most tech-savvy friend, you can join the world by clicking the Multiplayer button, then selecting Add Server and entering the appropriate IP address.
Step 3: You can also join public servers using this method, so long as you know its official IP address. Joining public servers is a great way to quickly get into some multiplayer action without having to build your own private server.
Creating a Minecraft: Bedrock Edition online server Step 1: Only three official servers are supported by the Bedrock Edition — Mineplex, InPVP, and Lifeboat.
Step 2: Navigate to the Servers tab and select the one you’d like to join.
Step 3: External servers can be added using the Add Server option and inputting all the necessary info; however, this feature is restricted on consoles.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Using Minecraft Realms Arguably, this is the way that Minecraft wants you to experience its multiplayer. Built from the ground up by Mojang, Realms offers dozens of incredible worlds to explore while also letting you create and host your own games. You’re limited to 10 friends, but setup is surprisingly easy compared to most other methods.
Both versions follow a similar set of steps for connecting to Realms. Here’s how it works: Step 1: First, you’ll need to create a Realm for your friends to connect to. Simply click Play and then select the Create on Realms button once you’re done configuring its settings.
Step 2: Next, you’ll need to invite players. Head back to the main menu and click the Play button again. From here, select the Edit icon and click the Members tab.
Step 3: You’ll now be able to send out invites to any of your friends. Once they accept the invite, they can join your Realm by selecting the Minecraft Realms option from the main menu and clicking on your corresponding world. If you’re having issues with Realms, Mojang has a detailed rundown of common issues on its official website.
Split-screen Although it’s only available on consoles, playing Minecraft in split-screen is pretty straightforward. Just make sure you have enough controllers for all your players (up to four) and they are properly connected to your system. Once you start your game, the screen should automatically split to accommodate everyone playing.
Editors' Recommendations How to play split-screen in Fortnite How to play co-op in Lords of the Fallen The best multiplayer games on the PS5 Starfield: Red Mile location and how to survive How to unlock Havik in Mortal Kombat 1 How-To Apple How-To Guides Gaming Starfield is the highest-profile Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S game since Halo Infinite, but the game isn't locked to those two consoles. Thanks to cloud gaming and Microsoft's more open-ended mentality of making its games available on a wide variety of platforms, you don't have to own one of Microsoft's current-gen systems or have the Xbox app installed on your PC.
No, it's not on PS5 or Nintendo Switch, but if you want to play Starfield while it's at the center of the video game industry zeitgeist, here are some places where it's playable other than the Xbox Series X, Xbox Series X, and Xbox PC app.
Steam The most obvious choice if you want to play Starfield elsewhere is to pick it up on Steam. While Microsoft does have a proprietary PC launcher of its own, Microsoft now consistently releases its own games through Valve's launcher. Bethesda joined Xbox Game Studios in 2021 and has a long history of making its games available on Steam as well, so it's not too surprising that Starfield is available on the platform.
Starfield already proving quite popular on the platform too, having peaked at 266,000 concurrent players, according to SteamDB at the time I'm writing this. If you're looking for a way to play Starfield natively on the hardware you own without using a Microsoft platform or service, this is your best option. It'll run on Steam Deck too, although that's not the only way to experience Starfield on the go.
Xbox Game Pass app on Android Gaming Very early on in Starfield, you will hear about and encounter a number of different factions, from the Freestar Collective to Constellation and more. It can be a little overwhelming to keep them all straight, but it won't take long before you realize who are the "good" guys and who are ... not. The Vanguard have set up operations in the United Colonies to keep the people safe. If you fancy yourself a peacekeeper and want to do your part to protect free space, plus get some good perks, here is how to join the Vanguard in Starfield.
Gaming Rather than build one massive world like in an Elder Scrolls title, Bethesda opted to create hundreds of planets to travel between in the aptly named Starfield. While not every planet is necessary to visit, you will be jumping between them extremely frequently to complete missions, do sidequests, build outposts, and generally explore. When you are first shoved into the pilot's seat, it can feel overwhelming coming to grips with how the system works. If you just want to get from point A to B, setting a course is the easiest way to dos o. Here's how to get where you need to be without searching the massive star map in Starfield.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
