Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity review: The new gold standard for spinoffs By Giovanni Colantonio Close $60.00 Excellent storytelling Varied combat Unique character abilities Tons of content Repetitive objectives Technical hiccups Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity is the first Zelda game that’s actually about Zelda. Despite the fact that the series is named after her, the princess has played second fiddle to the iconic Link for nearly 35 years now. Nintendo’s latest game finally gives her the spotlight she deserves and shows fans why she really is a legend.
A Link to the past High-stakes combat Pushed to the limits Our take It’s ironic that the crucial character development happens in a side game that doesn’t even bear her name, but Age of Calamity is much more than your average spinoff. Building off of the first Hyrule Warriors’ dedication to larger-than-life battles à la Dynasty Warriors, the action game is treated with the same level of care and thought as a mainline Zelda title. It’s billed as a proper prequel to The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild — and it’s clear that Nintendo didn’t take that pitch lightly.
Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity tips and tricks How to download the Hyrule Warriors demo on the Switch Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity coming to Switch November 20 Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity is the new gold standard for video game spinoffs.
 It more purposefully uses large-scale combat to weave a high-stakes Zelda tale that’s among the most engrossing stories to come out of a Nintendo property.
A Link to the past Age of Calamity tells the story of the great war that plunged Hyrule into darkness 100 years before Breath of the Wild begins. With the aid of a time-traveling droid, Princess Zelda puts together a crackerjack team of Hyrule’s finest warriors to try and prevent the inevitable rise of Calamity Gannon. The genre is a perfect fit for that setup, making the war actually feel as grand as it’s described.
Link may be the first character in the character selection screen, but Zelda herself is the real star. The story largely focuses on her insecurity as a leader during a kingdom-ending crisis. Even her move set is clumsy compared to other characters, as she haphazardly tosses out bombs and ice blocks while Link confidently slashes through crowds. Her redemption arc is more emotionally impactful than anything the Zelda series has offered in the past, making it a standout Nintendo narrative.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The story is largely told through fantastic cutscenes that feel as polished and detailed as an animated film. Characters come to life in a way that even Breath of the Wild didn’t accomplish, and the cinematic clashes are genuinely thrilling. I never used to think Zelda could work as a TV show or movie, but Age of Calamity makes the most convincing case the series has ever put out.
Part of the reason it works is because of its source material.
Breath of the Wild might be best known for its creative spin on open-world design , but it’s easy to overlook how charming its worldbuilding and characters are.
Age of Calamity amplifies all of those strengths, retroactively bringing more depth, history, and stakes to the game.
I never used to think Zelda could work as a TV show or movie, but Age of Calamity makes the most convincing case the series has ever put out.
One key example of that comes from the divine beasts, the massive robot animals that play a central role in both games.
Breath of the Wild hypes up how all-powerful they are, but mostly uses them as elaborate puzzle dungeons.
Age of Calamity actually pays off that lip service by letting players pilot the beasts and mow down literally thousands of enemies in seconds. The game is filled with “show, don’t tell” moments that enhance Breath of the Wild’s world without trampling its mystique.
Nintendo’s own Zelda team worked much more closely with Koei Tecmo on the game to create its story elements — and the more hands-on approach shows. While the game requires a working knowledge of Breath of the Wild to truly appreciate its strengths, Age of Calamity offers a level of dramatic weight that’s rare in Nintendo games.
High-stakes combat It’s important to set the right expectations for Age of Calamity’s gameplay –it’s still very much a Dynasty Warriors-like musou game first and foremost. That comes with all the good and the bad that the genre has to offer. Combat is wickedly satisfying, but repetition is baked into its core. Players will slash tens of thousands of enemies down, repeat objectives over and over, and mash the same two buttons until their fingers get sore. Anyone who’s not already bought in on this kind of game isn’t likely to find a revelation here.
Anytime I found myself starting to get tired of the battles, I’d unlock another character who would immediately reignite my interest.
Age of Calamity does an exemplary job of keeping combat fresh up to the very end of its 20-hour campaign. The secret to its success comes from its focus on character above all else. There are 18 playable heroes in total, who are steadily unlocked as the game progresses. Anytime I found myself starting to get tired of the battles, I’d unlock someone new who would immediately reignite my interest.
The game takes an almost Super Smash Bros. approach to character design. While the basic attacks and buttons are the same for every hero, each one has their own specific quirks that make them feel special. Impa can create clones of herself to slash more enemies at once, while Revali can launch himself into the air and rain arrows down from above. Differences like that add a layer of experimentation to the game every time players unlock a new character, turning repetitive objectives into a fun combat playground.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Runic abilities play a huge role in combat, which is the game’s most significant change from the first Hyrule Warriors.
 Each character can throw bombs, freeze enemies, grab metal objects, and create ice walls to counterattack enemies, adding surprising variety to the standard light/heavy attack combat loop. What’s more, the way the abilities work changes from character to character, which gives players another compelling reason to switch things up every mission and see what kind of damage they can cause.
That’s only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the lengths the developers went to in order to keep combat ever-changing. Different weapons can completely change move sets, each character has a special ability on the right trigger that’s entirely unique, and new combos are steadily unlocked through the story. There’s a staggering amount of options to play around with, successfully proving that there’s more than one way to skin a Hinox.
Pushed to the limits At first, Age of Calamity looks slimmed down compared to the original Hyrule Warriors.
 The Wii U release featured a menu full of game modes that took more than 200 hours to fully complete, while the new game has one core story mode. The light veneer turns out to be an illusion as the game is actually jam-packed with content.
The game uses Breath of the Wild’s map as an overworld screen that displays every mission, subquest, and unlockable item available. The map fills up with icons throughout the adventure, which gets downright daunting by the end. Having every objective in one place is a huge improvement over the comparatively disorganized Hyrule Warriors.
 There’s still a lot to do, even if most of it revolves around more slashing, but it’s a less excessive offering that’s easier to navigate.
Image used with permission by copyright holder With all that content, Age of Calamity really pushes the Switch to its limits. It’s a huge game that’s not without its share of technical flaws. Crazy combos can cause the frame rate to temporarily plummet to the speed of a slideshow. Even weirder, sometimes the game inexplicably doubles in speed, looking like a movie stuck on fast-forward.
Multiplayer especially takes the brunt of the technical pain. The game features two-player split screen, which drastically drops the game’s performance to a comedic degree. That’s a shame, because it offers a truly enjoyable couch co-op experience that rewards friends who can coordinate and execute a battle plan.
Crazy combos can cause the frame rate to temporarily plummet to the speed of a slideshow.
To its credit, the game never crashed on me once, even when it felt like my Switch was about to explode. It always made it out of a stutter unscathed and bug-free. In some ways, the stutters almost feel like a badge of honor that lets players know they’ve pulled off a seriously devastating attack. It’s not ideal, but at least it’s not game-breaking.
Like Zelda herself, the game can at times feel like it’s in over its head in a battle against technology. That’s part of the fun of the genre, though. Musou games take big swings to make players feel like an unstoppable force of nature. In spite of all of its stutters, Age of Calamity successfully brings Hyrule’s great war to life and lets the champions live up to their title.
Our take Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity sets the bar for both Nintendo spinoffs with A+ storytelling that enhances Breath of the Wild’s world and deceptively varied, character-driven combat. It’s still a Dynasty Warriors game at heart, for better or worse, but the game makes that feel like less of a backhanded caveat and more of a fresh start for a polarizing genre.
Is there a better alternative? The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild is still king, but Age of Calamity might be the best, and most accessible, musou game out there.
How long will it last? The campaign with a healthy dose of side missions is north of 20 hours, but it’ll take double that to hit 100%.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you loved Breath of the Wild , it’s an excellent companion piece that retroactively adds stakes to the experience.
Editors' Recommendations Fire Emblem Warriors: Three Hopes is a chaotic new spinoff 3 reasons Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity isn’t your average spinoff Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity offers bonus weapon for Breath of the Wild save Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
