Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Kirby and the Forgotten Land review: Waddle Dee-lightful By Giovanni Colantonio Close $59.99 Hilarious Mouthful Mode Mysterious world Neat ability upgrades Waddle Dee Town is quaint Runs out of ideas Co-op play is limited Is there any video game series as joyful as Kirby ? The second I booted Kirby and the Forgotten Land up for the first time, I broke out into a cheerful grin. After a month spent exploring post-apocalyptic wastelands, I was happy to watch the pink puffball pitter-patter around colorful landscapes without a care in the world.
All you can eat Lost in the supermarket The escalation challenge Our take Hilariously, Kirby and the Forgotten Land actually is a post-apocalyptic game. Kirby is sucked into another world filled with decaying shopping malls and abandoned amusement parks from a seemingly dead civilization. Its world actually isn’t too far off from that of Horizon Forbidden West , just swapping robots for dastardly foxes. The difference is that the setting doesn’t stop Kirby from treating it like his own personal playground — and buffet.
Kirby’s Return to Dream Land Deluxe brings a Wii classic to Switch next year Kirby’s Dream Buffet includes some surprises if you have Forgotten Land save data Kirby’s Dream Buffet is a Fall Guys-like multiplayer spinoff about eating cake Kirby and the Forgotten Land is an adorable platformer cut from the same cloth as Nintendo’s finest. The game’s absurd Mouthful Mode is an especially strong gimmick that lets developer Hal Laboratory get more playful and comedic with the series. It loses some steam when it runs out of ideas, but its story and levels never fail to charm me.
All you can eat Kirby and the Forgotten Land is the first 3D Kirby game since the Nintendo 64’s Kirby 64: The Crystal Shards , but it’s not a radical reinvention of the series. It still very much feels like a traditional 2D Kirby game and that’s a good thing. Kirby has always been a secret weapon in Nintendo’s first-party arsenal, providing smooth puzzle-platforming that’s easy on the brain. That’s exactly what you get here, with the game sharing more similarities to Super Mario 3D World than Super Mario Odyssey.
As always, the game is built around Kirby’s insatiable appetite. He can suck up enemies to gain new powers, like fire breath, bombs, or the ability to take a long nap (my favorite). Those can be used during linear platforming levels to solve puzzles that require using the right ability. See something tangled up in a vine? Grab a sword or cutter to chop it down. Each level is filled with intuitive micro-puzzles like that. They’re never hard to figure out, but always satisfying to execute.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s added depth to that formula this time thanks to Mouthful Mode , which allows Kirby to suck up gigantic objects to comedic effect. If Kirby sucks up a vending machine, he becomes a big pink rectangle that can shoot soda cans out of his mouth. I laughed at every single one without fail.
It’s not just a hysterical visual though; it’s a practical mechanic too. It lets the game create puzzles that aren’t just built around using a single ability. In one room, I need to light a fuse using fire power and get to a canon in time. However, there’s a staircase sitting on the rope, which extinguishes the flame. I need to light it, become the staircase (which is an unbelievably funny visual), and make my way around the fuse as it burns down. Then, I need to get the staircase into a position that allows me to climb my way up to the canon in time. It’s a clever little song and dance that tests my ability to juggle two abilities at once.
The main story is a hit of classic Nintendo fun that checks all the right boxes.
Kirby has needed a system like this for a while. When I played the comparatively underwhelming Kirby Star Allies , I felt like I had done all of its puzzles before in some form, even with its added multiplayer focus. The simplest fuse lighting feels fresher here – and much funnier, to boot.
Clocking in at around eight hours, the main story is a hit of classic Nintendo fun that checks all the right boxes. Solid bosses, well-hidden secrets, and tons of collectibles round the core package out to make this feel like the kind of Nintendo game you grew up loving. Fun doesn’t have to be fancy.
Lost in the supermarket What makes Kirby and the Forgotten Land particularly stand out among a sea of platformers is its world. In something like a 2D Mario game, levels can feel a little random. They’re built around a gameplay motif first and foremost, so it rarely feels like you’re walking around an actual cohesive world. By contrast, the titular Forgotten Land actually feels like a sensical space with its own secret history.
When I enter the obligatory “ice world,” it’s not just a random collection of cold, linear paths. I’m walking through abandoned city streets and fighting bosses on a massive, frozen suspension bridge. What did this city used to be? There’s a continuity to the world that makes me actually want to know about it, not just bounce around it.
Even with all of its dilapidated buildings, the art direction radiates joy.
I get little bits and pieces of that story, but the game lets me stay curious. There are collectible gachapon toys that give little snippets of flavor text, teasing the apocalypse that took place. One figurine of a billboard tells me about an energy mega power that split up, leading to “countless heated corporate battles.” Had I stumbled into a world where an ExxonMobil-like company caused the downfall of humanity? I love that I never fully get that answer.
Kirby and the Forgotten Land reminds me of a Hayao Miyazaki film in that way. What I’ve always loved about Ponyo , for instance, is that there’s some sort of apocalyptic event happening in the background, but it’s treated like a B-plot. Instead, the film spends most of its time watching its heroes joyfully eat ham as if nothing is happening. There’s room for peace amid the hysteria, and that’s how I feel when I see Kirby doing his little dance every time he clears a level.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Even with all of its dilapidated buildings, the art direction radiates joy. The colors are so pleasant that I couldn’t care less about whether or not the Switch can run 4K visuals.
 When Kirby swallows an entire car, the animation plays out with a kind of slapstick charm that takes me back to the days of watching Cartoon Network. Even the sound design, like the plastic scuttling of Kirby’s red shoes, gets a rise out of me.
In a high anxiety time where it feels like the Forgotten Land could become a preview of our own world, Kirby is the pink stress ball I need.
The escalation challenge There’s a surprising amount of content packed into the package, though it has its limits. The game’s main sin is that it runs out of ideas halfway through the main story. I collected every copy ability and saw almost every Mouthful Mode by world four. After that, I found myself fighting a lot of the same bosses and doing variations on the same puzzles until the end.
Kirby and the Forgotten Land ultimately has an escalation problem. When you write a comedy sketch, you always need to heighten the gag until the very end. You can’t tell your best joke in the first few minutes, but that’s what happens here. The game is at its best when it’s serving up new powers, bosses, and laughs. It runs out of those eventually, leaving it looking like a stand-up comedian who just got asked to fill another 20 minutes they weren’t prepared for.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The game does have a few workarounds for its eventual content stall. The best among them is a power upgrade system, which lets Kirby buff his copy abilities. They don’t just get stronger; they become entirely new tools. When the traditional ice breath ability morphs, Kirby can use his breath to build snowmen and slide them over to an enemy. The drilling ability, that lets Kirby burrow underground, turns into a giant pencil that launches at enemies. That system triples the number of powers in the game and adds a sense of progression when everything else starts slowing down.
Waddle Dee Town, the game’s hub world that expands as Kirby saves more Waddle Dee, adds some needed variety. While it’s small, it contains a handful of simple minigames to cut through the repetition. Kirby can fish, play a ball-rolling game that uses the Switch’s gyroscopic controls, and more. Most of the side activities are simple and can be fully “completed” in a few minutes, but it’s a nice excuse to relax in a quaint space and listen to some tunes.
I collected every copy ability and saw almost every Mouthful Mode by world four.
There’s a multiplayer option too, but it’s a bit of a missed opportunity. Player two is very much a typical “player two” here. While Kirby gets to eat everything in sight, his co-op partner is a spear-wielding Waddle Dee with a few unique attacks. The camera is shared between both and only tracks Kirby, so it’s very much a sidekick role. With no online option available, it’s only something that’ll really benefit parents and their kids.
Even with its repetitive late game, I still enjoyed just about every second of Kirby and the Forgotten Land.
 In the game’s opening sequence, Kirby swallows a car and rides down a highway as a pop tune plays. In one shot, he’s cruising against the clear blue sky as some seagulls fly by his window. That’s how I felt whenever I booted it up: Head empty, soaking in the sunshine, not a care in the world.
Our take Kirby and the Forgotten Land is a delightful puzzle-platformer that adds more dimensions to the basic Kirby formula. Mouthful Mode isn’t just a gimmick; it’s a hysterical mechanic that deepens the puzzle potential. The art direction is the star of the show, turning basic platforming motifs into a creative world that always had me curious to see what awaited me in the next level. The game stalls out once it stops presenting absurd new transformations, but features like Waddle Dee Town and ability upgrading give it some extra oomph during repetitive moments. It’s a warm spring breeze for Switch owners.
Is there a better alternative? Super Mario Odyssey has a similar mechanic within a more robust game. Though Kirby and the Forgotten Land is a notable improvement over the pink puffball’s last Switch outing, Kirby Star Allies.
How long will it last? The main story will take around eight to 10 hours to complete. There’s a ton to collect and lots of side activities too, which will likely double that time. I’m at 90% completion after 15 hours.
Should you buy it? Yes. This is the best Kirby game since the Nintendo 3DS’ Kirby: Planet Robobot and a wonderful Switch game for kids (and the young at heart).
Kirby and the Forgotten Land was tested on a Nintendo Switch OLED in handheld mode and on a TCL 6-Series R635 when docked.
Editors' Recommendations Nintendo Direct February 2023: how to watch and what to expect New Netflix game Lucky Luna is Pac-Man meets Wario Land Kirby’s Dream Buffet launches next week, but it’s not free-to-play The original Pokémon Snap lands on Nintendo Switch later this month Kirby 64 is Nintendo Switch Online’s next N64 addition Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Kirby titles are known for being kid-friendly. The pink puffball of a character is all but invincible in most games, and even when he can "die," like in Kirby and the Forgotten Land, there is hardly any punishment for when it does happen. The adventure is meant to be more of a fun, carefree, and joyful romp through some inventive stages, easy puzzles, and perhaps mildly challenging (at best) boss battles. However, nearly every Kirby game does acknowledge that some people are looking for a deeper challenge in these games, and while they might not push you to the absolute limits, they can give you a nice bit of resistance.
Kirby and the Forgotten Land has plenty of end-game content -- again, a staple for Kirby -- but the biggest attraction for most challenge seekers will no doubt be the Colosseum. This battle arena will test you more than any regular stage in the game through gauntlets consisting of multiple rounds of tough mini-bosses, normal bosses, and even unique bosses only found there that put the normal ones to shame. If you're not ready for the difficulty spike, this can be a bit of a shock to a normal Kirby player. Worry not, because Kirby is one resilient ball of joy, especially when he absorbs all the information in our Colosseum guide.
Gaming The Waddle Dees are captured, and only Kirby can save them! Kirby and the Forgotten Land brings Kirby to a new world -- and dimension -- in this 3D adventure through a bright and colorful environment, but with an implied dark history. The adventure itself is all about rescuing the cute and cuddly Waddle Dees to repopulate Waddle Dee Town, which opens up tons of options and new things to do for Kirby between the normal platforming stages. However, more than half of the objectives in each level are hidden from you, but without completing them you can't free every Waddle Dee.
Kirby and the Forgotten Land has six major areas, and plenty of levels within them all. That alone adds up to a big chunk of content, but there's almost no chance anyone will be able to fully complete every stage on their first try thanks to the secret missions. These missions are unique to each level, and are not revealed to the player until they beat a stage at least once, meaning you will, at minimum, have to go back a second time to do these extra missions, if not more. However, if you follow this guide and know ahead of time what all the secret mission objectives are for each stage in Kirby and the Forgotten Land, you can restore Waddle Dee town to glory in no time.
Gaming Is it possible for anyone to not love Kirby? This little ball of joy has been with us since the NES, charming us with his cute design, lighthearted stories, and stress-free gameplay. Over the years, Kirby has become one of Nintendo's most beloved characters, nearly as recognizable as Mario or Link. He's quietly amassed a dedicated audience of fans through the decades and is one of the few franchises to go on for so long with such a strong track record of games. Sure, some modern gamers may look at his titles and think they're just for kids, but the joy of a Kirby game is one that people of all ages can enjoy.
Whether he's in his natural form or made of yarn, 2D or 3D, or in an open-world setting like in Kirby and the Forgotten Land, Kirby has established a formula and tone for his games that make them reliably great. There are some more experimental titles in his mainline games, for better and for worse, but on the whole, there's hardly any Kirby game you can pick up and not smile your way through from beginning to end. Looking at Kirby's entire catalog of games is a little overwhelming, even when you cut out his spinoff titles, and deciding which are the best is even more difficult. Here's our best attempt to go through all the best Kirby games and rank them from best to worst.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
