Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Features Super Mario 3D World made it to Switch, but other Wii U games are still stranded By Giovanni Colantonio Close Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury comes to Nintendo Switch this weekend giving the console another excellent first-party game. It’s the latest in a line of Wii U titles to receive a Switch port in the past few years, salvaging the best of the ill-fated two-screen system’s surprisingly strong library.
Even with games like Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and Pikmin 3 making the jump to Switch, there’s a handful of strong Wii U games that haven’t — and probably never will. That’s creating a generational dead zone that may leave games that dared to take advantage of the console’s bold concept forever trapped on the Wii U.
While the Wii U’s whole selling point was its two-screen experience, developers weren’t entirely sure what to do with it at the time. That included Nintendo itself, who often used its gamepad as a glorified map screen in games like Mario Kart 8 or Splatoon.
 By the end of the console’s lifespan, Nintendo seemed to have given up on the concept entirely with games like Yoshi’s Wooly World hardly using the second screen at all.
Nintendo is shutting down online services for 3DS and Wii U next April Super Mario Bros. Wonder is getting a very red Nintendo Switch OLED Download these rare Wii U games before they disappear The good news is that it’s been easy for those games to come to other systems since then. With no meaningful second-screen experience, Nintendo could easily pull games like Super Mario 3D World onto the Switch without entirely reworking them.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That’s not so easy for the games that actually went along with the console’s gimmick. Wii U launch title Nintendo Land is inseparable from the hardware itself, creating unique multiplayer experiences that revolved around the gamepad. Star Fox spinoff title Star Fox Guard uses the system to invent an ingenious tower defense game where players arrange camera-equipped drones on one screen and monitor them on the other.
There’s no easy way to bring these games to Switch or likely any console moving forward. They are fundamentally linked to the idea of dual perspective, a concept that Nintendo seems to be done playing with for now.
That’s especially unfortunate for smaller studios or third-parties who went along with Nintendo’s tech gamble. Indie game Affordable Space Adventures is a brilliant Wii U gem where players pilot a spaceship on the TV while managing controls in its cockpit via the gamepad. It’s a wonderfully creative experience, but one that leaves developer NapNok Games few options if it wants to bring the game to a wider audience. It doesn’t help that the indie was sold digitally, meaning that once the Wii U eShop shuts down, no one will be able to buy it period.
All of that creates a nightmare for enthusiasts who worry about game preservation. Imagine if you could only ever play the original Super Mario Bros.
on the NES. That’s the reality for a handful of Wii U games which seem as though they’ll be lost to time without some sort of solution from Nintendo.
It’s the kind of problem that’s unique to video games. Films can utilize all sorts of projection tricks in theaters, but the movies themselves can always be captured digitally, future-proofing the format. Video games are much more reliant on specific technology, whether it be unique controllers or console-specific features. If a company’s next system scraps any of its technological innovations, that leaves any game that was built around it in weird shape. What happens to Astro’s Playroom if the PlayStation 6 decides to do away with the DualSense’s haptic feedback and adaptive triggers ? The problem is especially precarious for Nintendo, which spent 15 years doubling down on concepts like motion controls and dual-screen gameplay in its hardware. The Wiimote concept has managed to hang on thanks to the Switch’s Joy-cons, but there’s no telling if Nintendo’s next system will continue with a remote control design that makes it possible to play something like Wii Sports in the future.
There aren’t many immediate solutions to the impending problem. Game developers (and fans) are at the mercy of hardware makers who inadvertently decide the fate of certain titles moving forwards. Perhaps one day Nintendo will allow players to use a phone or tablet as a second screen on one of its consoles, making it possible to play games like Affordable Space Adventures again.
Until then, we’ll have to hope that our Wii U’s keep powering on.
Editors' Recommendations Play these 3DS and Wii U games before Nintendo shutters their online features What games will Nintendo Switch 2 launch with? We have some ideas Super Mario Bros. Wonder: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more You can play a fan-made Super Mario Bros. 5 in Mario Maker 2 right now Wolfenstein 3D and more classic Bethesda games join PC Game Pass Features Features Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Super Nintendo World is set to open at Universal Studios Hollywood in early 2023. Universal announced the opening date for the Nintendo-themed attraction on Thursday, which is a more firm launch window than has been previously given.
To commemorate the announcement of Super Nintendo World's stateside opening date, Universal Studios posted a few pictures and a video of the signature ride, Mario Kart: Bowser's Challenge. The ride is an AR-on-rails experience where guests put on AR glasses shaped like Mario's hat and ride in a four-seat Mario Kart-style go-kart in a race to beat Team Bowser.
Gaming Nintendo has announced the end of its eShop service for the Wii U console and 3DS handheld. The eShop will stay live on those devices until late March 2023, after which players will no longer be able to purchase games or download eShop apps and services for those devices.
After the closure, players will still be able to redownload games and DLC that they already own, use online play, and download software updates.
Gaming It’s been a strange year for video games so far. The long-term effects of the coronavirus pandemic on game development didn’t really rear its ugly head until the start of 2021. That led to a sudden wave of delays, emptying out the year’s release calendar one month at a time.
Despite that, 2021 has seen a string of surprising hits, from established franchises to entirely new properties. We haven’t been buried in new releases in the past six months, but there’s been something worth checking out every few weeks. For those who are looking to play catch-up this summer before the holiday rush, here are the best games we’ve played in 2021 so far.
It Takes Two Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
