Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews ‘Mario Kart 8 Deluxe’ review As manic as ever, 'Mario Kart 8 Deluxe' brings multiplayer mayhem to Switch owners By Jeffrey Van Camp Close $59.99 The best Mario Kart game you can buy Battle mode is improved Smart Steering is great for new players New characters added like King Boo Local multiplayer included (4-player) Not actually a new game Smart steering may irk hardcore players Playing on a single Joy-Con is cramped (but not required) Would you rather wait years for the next Mario Kart, or pay more money to play it today? If you’re a Nintendo Switch owner that previously owned a Wii U, this is a question you need to answer for yourself because Mario Kart 8 is back, and though it has some serious enhancements, it is largely the same game.
If you already played MK8 on the Wii U, the new ‘ Deluxe ’ version feels like a phantom DLC update that never came. It has all the content from the original game and first two DLC releases, and adds a few new characters, items, vehicles, and tracks. That, and it revamps the series long-beloved and beleaguered Battle mode, finally making it playable. There are now eight dedicated battle arenas to play in, so you don’t have to try and fight it out on courses meant for racing. Oh, and if you have trouble driving, Deluxe has some new options like Auto Accelerate and Smart Steering, that take all of the skill out of at least finishing a race.
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe’s final DLC brings the series most iconic track All secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder Wonder no more: the new voice of Mario has revealed himself Racing in Deluxe will give Wii U players déjà vu: It feels exactly like the original Mario Kart 8.
 New or not, though, it’s nice to have a Mario Kart game on the Switch.
Mario Kart 8 is just as nuts and fun to play with friends as ever before, and the two-player capabilities of the Switch make it possible to play with friends on the go, too. A lot of the fun of Mario Kart is in the mayhem, and that hasn’t gotten old.
Mario Kart meets F-Zero If you haven’t played Mario Kart 8 , it’s like a fusion of classic Kart with F-Zero.
 Race courses now have underwater sections, flying with gliders (more like falling, with style), and areas where your kart turns into a hovercraft and you travel up walls or upside down entirely. It’s nuts, and if Nintendo took it one step further, it may not feel like Mario Kart at all. Luckily, the red shells still fly and banana peels are in plentiful supply. There are a few new items too, like a horn that can stop the dreaded Spiky Shell, and the return of the feather in Battle mode, which lets you jump over your opponents to save yourself. You can also carry two items at once now, which will help you get out of a pinch.
Mario Kart 8 feels like a fusion of classic Kart with F-Zero.
Aside from the daunting new dimensions added to tracks, veteran players will like the insanely fast 200cc racing class that’s now unlocked from the get go, and small gameplay tweaks, like being able to power up a drift to a third ‘purple’ tier, giving you a larger mini-turbo boost when you get out of corners. You can also do tricks and get a boost if you press the jump button when leaping over ramps, and collecting coins slowly speeds you up.
Six new characters also join the race. The Inkling Boy and Inkling Girl from Splatoon are fun additions that reinforce the idea that Mario Kart is turning into a Super Smash Bros.
style game that goes beyond just Super Mario characters and worlds. Link and an Animal Crossing Villager also show up. Most of the characters are weird Mario offshoots like Dry Bones, King Boo, Dry Bowser (skeleton Bowser), Tanooki Mario, and an unlockable Gold Mario. Zelda, F-Zero, Animal Crossing, and Splatoon -themed courses are also fun to play.
It looks the same as the Wii U version, but Mario Kart 8 Deluxe still looks stunning (now in 1080p at 60fps on a TV and 720p on handheld) a few years later. In no way do the visuals look out of date.
Multiplayer modes and mehs We cannot explain how crazy it is to have four people squinting at the split screen on a tiny Switch display, but you can do it, and it works. Optimally, everyone would have a Switch Pro Controller, but you can play SNES style by each using a single Joy-Con, which you can slide off the right or left sides of the Switch screen. Believe it or not, the tiny Joy-Cons will let you get the job done, but don’t expect to feel comfortable. Playing with a single Joy-Con is a cramped experience. While it isn’t perfect, though, this is the first system with portable four-player console gaming on the go: It’s a lot of fun if you’re on a trip with a friend.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If your friends have their own Switch and a copy of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe , up to eight players can wirelessly connect up that way as well. Online play is also available, though we have not yet tested it thoroughly due to the small multiplayer scene pre-release. Translation: We can’t find anyone to race with us, yet! You can race your friends in Grand Prix bundles of races, a single race, or you can square off in Deluxe ’s revamped Battle mode. Instead of forcing you to battle on race courses, Nintendo has added eight proper arenas for players to fight in. Some are overly large and complex, like Battle Stadium, but others, like the remade Luigi’s Mansion stage from Mario Kart: Double Dash , and the new Dragon Palace, are tight enough to cause some havoc.
A lot of the fun of Mario Kart is the mayhem.
There are five Battle modes, and all of them are pretty fun, but for some odd reason Nintendo did not add in the classic, Mario Kart 64 -style rules where every player has three balloons and fights until they’re popped. There are five different ways to battle in Deluxe, but they are all timed and have multiple rounds with complex scoring systems. They’re never as fun or frantic as those brawls to the death of yesterkart. Bob-omb battle, Shine Thief, and Coin Runners join a modified Balloon battle along with one new mode: Renegade Roundup. Here, a team of players uses Piranha plants to eat the others, while the other team tries to stay unharmed and free their friends from jail (nobody actually dies in Mario Kart, silly). Again, it would be more fun if it wasn’t so complex and timed.
Mario Kart is at its best when everyone is empowered to cause as much pandemonium as possible. Though it’s much improved, the Deluxe Battle mode still doesn’t bring the ruckus that classic Kart games were known for. It’s a shame, too. All it would take is the ability to turn the timer off and just shoot each other freely. Sadly, Nintendo did not include the option.
What it does to Switch battery life If unplugged, it appears that the Switch battery will last about 2.5-3 hours if you play nonstop Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.
This is similar to The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild.
Our Take Mario Kart 8 Deluxe doesn’t offer much for players who already had their fill of the original Mario Kart 8 on the Wii U, but it’s still a fantastic game have on the Switch. If, like most people, you skipped the Wii U, or just want their Kart fix, Deluxe is the best version of one of our favorite Mario Kart games.
Is there a better alternative? Nope. If you happen to own a Wii U, you can likely find Mario Kart 8 at a deep discount, but this is the first major 4+ player game you’ll want to own for the Nintendo Switch.
How long will it last? Deluxe will be a staple of the Switch lineup for many years. Nintendo has not confirmed any new DLC, but history suggests it may continue to add karts, characters, tracks, and modes to the game after launch.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you want to play some Mario Kart on Switch, don’t wait around. This game is extremely similar to its Wii U version, but that was also one of the best Mario Kart games to date. It looks fantastic, plays well, and has (almost) everything you’d want out of a Mario Kart game.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder All Super Mario Bros. Wonder power-ups, ranked Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is getting a surprise Switch release Mario vs. Donkey Kong is getting a Nintendo Switch remake in February Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Nintendo will hold a full-fledged Nintendo Direct presentation this September, just as it has during this month for the past several years. Whether or not this would happen was in question because of the June Direct and August's Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct, but now that's no longer a debate. The next Nintendo Direct will take place on September 14 and give us insights on games coming to the Nintendo Switch throughout the rest of the year. It will air live, so we've outlined where and how people can watch the September 2023 Nintendo Direct, as well as what people should expect from it.
When is the September 2023 Nintendo Direct The September 2023 Nintendo Direct starts at 7 a.m. PT on September 14, so you may need to get up early in the morning for it. Nintendo also confirmed that the presentation will last about 40 minutes, so be prepared to tune in for some time.
How to watch the September 2023 Nintendo Direct Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 - Nintendo Switch Gaming The Nintendo Switch is one of the most popular gaming consoles. This can sometimes make it difficult to find Nintendo Switch deals, as such popular pieces of tech don’t often see discounts. But that doesn’t mean there aren’t ways to save. There are several discounts taking place on several different Nintendo Switch models, and there’s even some savings to be had on a few of the best Nintendo Switch games. Whether you’re looking for a Switch console or some games for your current one, we’ve rounded up all of the best Nintendo Switch deals you can shop right now.
Nintendo Switch OLED (refurbished) — $300, was $350 The Nintendo Switch OLED is a slight upgrade over the original Nintendo Switch. It comes with a 7-inch OLED screen, which is important if you’re looking to get the best image quality possible out of your console. OLED produces a lifelike image with vivid colors and deep contrast, and it could even make the switch a better experience for playing handheld if you don’t also have an OLED TV. This Nintendo Switch OLED model comes refurbished and certified by Geek Squad, which means you can purchase knowing you’re getting a Switch OLED that’s been checked to work properly.
Gaming Nintendo is launching a Nintendo Switch - OLED Model Mario Red Edition in October. The news capped off the company's Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct today, which shared new details on the upcoming platformer.
This new themed version of the latest Nintendo Switch iteration is completely red across the system and Joy-Cons. On the back of it, players can find a silhouette of Mario and hidden coins. It's not as detailed as The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom's OLED model, but it does look very sleek. This Mario Red Edition system will come out on October 6, two weeks ahead of Super Mario Bros. Wonder's release.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
