Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Mario Kart 8 review By Anthony John Agnello Close $60.00 Spectacular new tracks Awesome new kart types Superior competitive balancing to recent entries Absolutely gorgeous Best online play of any Nintendo game Kart races can still end in unfair circumstances Poor tools for communicating with friends online Some legacy tracks don’t hold up to new ones Mario Kart 8 is here. The game that should have launched with Wii U – old faithful itself – is back. It’s is not the first online version, or the first to offer co-op, but with anti-gravity karts, gliding carts, new items, HD graphics, and new course types, Mario Kart 8 isn’t resting on its laurels either.
The game’s small changes stack on top of one another adding up to a game that doesn’t reinvent the wheel, but passes its forebears through sheer execution. Bottom line, it’s one of the best multiplayer games available on Wii U. Were it not for a couple irksome problems born of Nintendo’s still flawed online services, it would be the best game on the console, period.
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe’s final DLC brings the series most iconic track All secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder Wonder no more: the new voice of Mario has revealed himself Mario Kart 8 doesn’t reinvent the wheel, but passes its forebears through sheer execution.
That attention to detail also extends to the 16 classic courses pulled from past games, though the facelift doesn’t save the ones that weren’t great start with. Donut Plains from the SNES is spiced up with jumps and Wii’s Moo Moo Meadows has some beautiful lighting, but neither is up to the standard of new courses like Mount Wario – our new favorite.
Mount Wario deserves special note because it embodies Kart 8’s sly variation on the standard circuit racing. Rather than just a closed loop, Mount Wario is a literal race down the mountain, bringing you through icy caverns, snowy forests, and even down a slalom course until you reach the base. (The all-mountain rush reminds us of snowboarding titles like 1080 Snowboarding and SSX 3.
) Double Dash introduced this idea with DK Mountain, where you’d race down the mountain, but even it would shoot you back up with a cannon to repeat the course, as usual.
Mount Wario also emphasizes how speed manipulation is so crucial, and so fun when you pull it off correctly. Holding the right trigger on your controller still lets you jump your kart, bike, car, or ATV and hug a corner, turning a long drift into a Power Slide or a boost if you hop off a ledge or jump in a course.
The new courses thread opportunities to use these methods one after the other just right, rewarding skill and practice with different karts and racers of varying weight and speed.
Like Double Dash and Mario Kart Wii , your kart type greatly impacts your steering, and like all of the series, there are different weight classes. If you choose with Rosalina in one of the big Caddy racers, and you may want to avoid routes with tight corners. Instead, save those tight corners until you are using Iggy Koopa on a bike. The course design also benefits from new items like the boomerang and Super Horn. The Super Horn is a defense tool that can even cancel out the dreaded Blue Shell, which automatically targets whoever’s in first place. Blue Shells are the great equalizer, so we’re glad there’s at least one way skilled players can avoid them.
Though it’s possible to play with friends, it’s difficult to communicate with them.
In multiplayer mode, the better item balancing creates beautiful chaos. Split-screen multiplayer with friends on the couch also benefits the most from the increased visual fidelity, making it much easier to follow the action. Online multiplayer, meanwhile, is the smoothest offered on any home Nintendo console. One or two local players can hop online, select from world, regional, or friend racing pools and get going swiftly. We had no problems finding matches when we were testing the game several weeks before its retail release, though it was rare to find a full 12-player showdown, and the wait from mode selection to race was just minutes. Even races with just half that12-player maximum were competitive and hectic. Whether or not someone discovers a way to cheat like the infamous snaking method in Mario Kart DS remains to be seen, but at this point everything is solid, with one major exception.
Mario Kart 8’s biggest problem that, though it’s possible to play with friends, it’s difficult to communicate with them. Unlike in PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Steam, or even Apple Game Center games, there are no obvious cues when your friends are online, or if they’re trying to invite you to race. In fact, the only reason we noticed a friend had popped online at one point was that we were playing using the GamePad screen and not the television. A quick blue flash on the home screen indicated that my friend was online, so we went to start a race open to friends. The in-game menu made no indication that he was playing (though I confirmed later he was), but we sent a Nintendo Network message to him to get in touch.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Wii U doesn’t flash a notice on screen that you’ve received a message from a friend, so our friend had no clue we’d tried to set something up at all. In a game as carefully considered in almost every other respect, a small issue like this becomes a glaring problem. Nintendo has certainly made strides since Mario Kart 7 (3DS) in letting you play with strangers, but communicating with your own friends is still a hassle.
Not being able to communicate with friends properly isn’t a big enough hassle to bring down the complete product, though.
Mario Kart 8 is going to go down in history as the Mario Kart that everyone likes best. Not many people out there own a Wii U at this point, but anyone who gets the chance to play Mario Kart 8 , whether it’s their first or their eighth Mario Kart , may find their new favorite.
Highs Spectacular new tracks Awesome new kart types Superior competitive balancing to recent entries Absolutely gorgeous Best online play of any Nintendo game Lows Kart races can still end in unfair circumstances Poor tools for communicating with friends online Some legacy tracks don’t hold up to new ones Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder All Super Mario Bros. Wonder power-ups, ranked Nintendo is shutting down online services for 3DS and Wii U next April Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is getting a surprise Switch release Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Mario vs. Donkey Kong was announced during today's Nintendo Direct. Launching on February 16, this new title is the first entry in the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series to hit the Nintendo Switch and the latest in the series since its last entry in 2016.
Mario vs. Donkey Kong - Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 Gaming The Nintendo Switch is one of the most popular gaming consoles. This can sometimes make it difficult to find Nintendo Switch deals, as such popular pieces of tech don’t often see discounts. But that doesn’t mean there aren’t ways to save. There are several discounts taking place on several different Nintendo Switch models, and there’s even some savings to be had on a few of the best Nintendo Switch games. Whether you’re looking for a Switch console or some games for your current one, we’ve rounded up all of the best Nintendo Switch deals you can shop right now.
Nintendo Switch OLED (refurbished) — $300, was $350 The Nintendo Switch OLED is a slight upgrade over the original Nintendo Switch. It comes with a 7-inch OLED screen, which is important if you’re looking to get the best image quality possible out of your console. OLED produces a lifelike image with vivid colors and deep contrast, and it could even make the switch a better experience for playing handheld if you don’t also have an OLED TV. This Nintendo Switch OLED model comes refurbished and certified by Geek Squad, which means you can purchase knowing you’re getting a Switch OLED that’s been checked to work properly.
Gaming Nintendo is launching a Nintendo Switch - OLED Model Mario Red Edition in October. The news capped off the company's Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct today, which shared new details on the upcoming platformer.
This new themed version of the latest Nintendo Switch iteration is completely red across the system and Joy-Cons. On the back of it, players can find a silhouette of Mario and hidden coins. It's not as detailed as The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom's OLED model, but it does look very sleek. This Mario Red Edition system will come out on October 6, two weeks ahead of Super Mario Bros. Wonder's release.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
