Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope review: one of Mario’s finest spinoffs By Giovanni Colantonio Close $59.99 Strong exploration Excellent combat tweaks Distinct characters Strong customization via Sparks Flexible challenge Unpredictable enemies Long battle animations If the Mario franchise has taught us anything over the past three and a half decades, it’s that sometimes change can be for the best.
Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope is another fine example of that. Rather than rehashing the successful tactics formula that made 2017’s Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle a surprise hit, Ubisoft switched the recipe up for its sequel by ditching traditional grid-based battles. Though that decision may have raised eyebrows for anyone who fell in love with the first game, I can’t imagine the series playing any other way now.
Super Rabbids Galaxy Turn economy What’s not new Don’t panic: The fundamentals of the two games are still the same. Sparks of Hope is a tactics game where Mario and his friends team up with their Rabbid doppelgangers to take down enemies in turn-based battles. However, the sequel brings a host of important changes that improve on the original’s ideas rather than throw them out the window. Less rigid combat, a greater emphasis on exploration, and a stronger approach to character building all make the sequel feel as fresh as the original did in 2017.
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe’s final DLC brings the series most iconic track All secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is getting a surprise Switch release Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope shines thanks to its reworked tactics, which make way for some of the best turn economy I’ve seen in the genre to date. Though it doesn’t fix all of its predecessor’s issues, it’s a worthy follow-up that ranks among the Nintendo Switch’s very best exclusives.
Super Rabbids Galaxy Drawing inspiration from Super Mario Galaxy this time around, Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope is a more intergalactic journey. Mario and his pals (both human and Rabbid) team up to stop Cursa, an evil force that’s looking to sow chaos in the galaxy by consuming Sparks, creatures that are a hybrid of Rabbids and Galaxy ’s Lumas. The vague, cartoon narrative doesn’t really matter much; it’s just a good excuse to explore five visually creative worlds.
Galaxy may be the primary visual inspiration here, but the world structure reminds me of Super Mario Odyssey more than anything.
Exploration is much more important to Sparks of Hope than it was in Kingdom Battle , and that’s one of its best changes. Though there are primary story missions to complete in each world, they’re largely open-ended with side missions and secrets scattered throughout.
Galaxy may be the primary visual inspiration here, but the world structure reminds me of Super Mario Odyssey more than anything. Combining that with Ubisoft’s usual “map game” style of play makes the sequel work even better as a portable game that you can play for five minutes and make some sort of progress.
While the bulk of quests revolve around tactical encounters, there’s much more to do outside of combat. Short coin-collecting challenges, fishing minigames, world riddles, and more help break up the longer battle sequences, bringing more variety and defining the series beyond its core hook. I’m most pleasantly surprised by some of its puzzles, both traditional ones and environmental ones that open up new paths in the world. The game’s best side activity comes in the form of secret doors, which contain a small puzzle room that hearkens back to the diorama-like charm of Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The worlds themselves take a step up visually too, working well with the limitations of the Switch.
Kingdom Battle ’s levels felt like somewhat basic Mushroom Kingdom fare, moving between archetypical platformer worlds. Environments are more vibrant and densely packed with detail here. The moment I step into the ice-themed Pristine Peaks, I can immediately see a rock cave shaped like a Rabbid head, a rickety wooden path built around a snowy hill, a boat frozen in a lake, and more. By the end of my stay there, I’ll reach all of those areas and even find more hidden around, like a ghostly mansion that serves as its own separate dungeon.
There are discoveries tucked away in every nook and cranny, whether that be well-hidden secrets or some kind of level design sight gag (like a Wiggler trapped in a snow globe). Those changes bring the tactics game more in line with a modern 3D Mario game, making it feel like a more natural marriage of Ubisoft and Nintendo’s design philosophies.
Turn economy While the exploration is a refreshing change, the excellent tweaks to its tactical battles are really where Sparks of Hope stands out. Rather than sticking to a strict turn-based grid formula, Ubisoft has loosened the rules of battle up a bit to add in some real-time action ideas. Players have two actions on any given turn, which they can use to shoot, use their special ability, or activate a Spark skill. Two actions may not sound like a lot, but Sparks of Hope has a fantastic approach to turn economy that allows players to chain together a lot more moves at once, something that capitalizes on Kingdom Battles excellent Donkey Kong Adventure DLC.
That’s mostly thanks to a big change in how movement works. Not only are players no longer restricted to a grid when traversing a battlefield, but it’s an entirely free action that can be performed in between skill uses and even other heroes’ turns. Jumping off a teammate’s head or dashing into an enemy are also free actions, meaning players can accomplish a lot on a turn without even spending a point. That opens the door for much more creative turns that had me switching between my three characters in between actions to execute complex sequences.
The best laid plans make turns feel like a puzzle game where you need to stretch your actions as far as you can.
On one turn, I can run forward as Peach and then switch over to Rabbid Rosalina and jump off of her to move even further into the battlefield. Then, I can switch to Rabbid Peach who can leapfrog off both of them to reach a spring pad within range of enemies, and switch back to Rabbid Rosalina to springboard even farther. From there, Rosalina can dash into an enemy, inflicting ennui on them to silence them for a turn. The rest of my party focuses on another nearby enemy, spending their dashes and attacks to take them out. With one action left over per character, I can use a toxic shockwave spark to poison nearby enemies and trigger Rosalina’s special ability to silence all enemies within range. The best-laid plans make turns feel like a puzzle game where you need to stretch your actions as far as you can.
There are a lot of key ways that Sparks of Hope keeps that experience feeling fresh battle after battle. For one, each of its nine characters is entirely distinct from one another. Mario wields two mid-range guns which he can fire at two separate targets, while the newly added Bowser can summon an army of mecha-koopas to explode on enemies and inflict fire damage. Different character combinations create entirely new strategies. For instance, anytime I was faced with a mission that required me to simply reach an area, I’d equip my designated movement team: Luigi, Edge, and Rabbid Mario. Building each character’s skill tree around team jumps and movement range, I was often able to complete those missions in one or two turns, sending Luigi safely across an entire map with a careful action order of operations.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The titular Sparks play an especially big role in building characters. By mid-game, players will be able to equip two Sparks on each character, giving them four total actions to choose from on a turn. Sparks have a ton of applications, from augmenting attacks with elements to deflecting damage back onto enemies. That allows for some clever customization potential, even if a character’s weapon stays the same. For instance, I equipped Luigi with a Spark that would turbocharge his damage and another that would turn him invisible for a few turns. That would let him sneak deep into enemy territory and pick off enemies with his overwatch skill without taking a scratch.
All of that doesn’t take away from the franchise’s best trait: It’s still an incredibly approachable tactics game. With added difficulty options that can be turned up or down on any battle, it’s still a great entry into the genre for kids or newcomers. But veterans of games like XCOM can have a field day building a team that’s capable of wiping out half the enemies on screen before taking a single point of damage.
What’s not new Though Sparks of Hope makes some key improvements, there are still some pain points from the first game that hold true here. For instance, it’s still very hard to read an enemy’s range of movement. You can click on an enemy to see its movement area, as well as weaknesses and resistances, but that all goes out the window when they move through a pipe. I’d often have to restart battles one turn in when enemies on the other side of the screen chained their way to me and killed a teammate almost immediately.
Turn animations can take a torturously long time in missions that have a dozen enemies on screen … Battles can be incredibly slow too. While there’s a fast-forward button, there’s no way to outright skip enemy turns. Even at a quicker speed, turn animations can take a torturously long time in missions that have a dozen enemies on screen and portals that slowly spawn out two or three more a piece. Some long loads when opening menus can similarly put a dent in the pace. I’d usually only go into character menus when I could upgrade a bunch of heroes and Sparks at once, rather than making micro-changes on the fly.
Those issues make for some frustrations throughout, but they don’t take away from what’s an overall stronger installment of the young franchise. It makes for a standout 30-hour adventure that’s fun from end to end. And while it doesn’t have post-game content, its worlds are loaded with some genuinely challenging missions that’ll test your ability to keep a busy battlefield under control (plus, several DLCs are planned, including a Rayman expansion ). One “epic” boss fight against a massive Goomba on a small stretch of land had me thinking about every little movement so I could keep safely kiting my team around it while conserving as much of the map’s limited cover as possible.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope isn’t just another Nintendo Switch hit ; it establishes the tactics franchise as one of Mario’s finest spinoffs. Like a tactician planning out the perfect turn, Ubisoft has made all the right moves to maximize Kingdom Battle ’s strengths, positioning the series as one of the best tools in the publisher’s current arsenal.
Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope was reviewed on a Nintendo Switch OLED in handheld mode and on a TCL 6-Series R635 when docked.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder All Super Mario Bros. Wonder power-ups, ranked Mario vs. Donkey Kong is getting a Nintendo Switch remake in February Super Mario Bros. Wonder is getting a very red Nintendo Switch OLED Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Nintendo will reveal more about Super Mario Bros. Wonder during a Nintendo Direct dedicated to the game that's set for later this week. Nintendo announced this new 2D Mario game during a Direct in June, but we haven't learned much more about it since then outside of the fact that Charles Martinet won't voice Mario in it. As such, this is a presentation Mario fans will definitely want to tune into ahead of the game's release in October. If you're planning to watch the Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct live, this is everything you need to know about watching it.
When is the Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct Nintendo confirmed that the Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct will take place at 7 a.m. PT on August 31. It says the showcase will last "roughly 15 minutes," so you'll only need to set aside a little bit of time on Thursday morning for it.
How to watch the Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct Like most Nintendo Directs, this Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct will be live-streamed on Nintendo's YouTube channel. The premiere for it is already live on YouTube, and you can watch it from this article with the embedded video below.
Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct 8.31.2023 What to expect from the Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct Super Mario Bros. Wonder launches for Nintendo Switch on October 20, but there's still a lot we don't know about it. Nintendo simply says the Direct will serve as "an in-depth look at Mario's latest 2D side-scrolling adventure," so expect a deep dive into the different characters, gimmicks, and abilities players will encounter during the game.
I personally hope we learn more about some of the new power-ups we can use in the adventure, like the Wonder Flower that makes levels weird and the strange-looking power-up that turns Mario into an elephant. One thing you shouldn't expect from this Direct: other Nintendo games. This is a livestream to tune into if you want to learn more about Super Mario Bros. Wonder and Super Mario Bros. Wonder alone. That's not such a bad thing, though.
Gaming Ubisoft is finally bringing Rayman back as part of a new piece of DLC for Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope later this month. Called Rayman in the Phantom Show, this DLC releases on August 30.
Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope - DLC 3 Reveal Trailer For a long time, Rayman was Ubisoft's premier mascot and starred in a series of platformers that people who grew up in the late 1990s and early 2000s remember fondly. Unfortunately, Ubisoft's focus has primarily been on more mature series like Assassin's Creed, Far Cry, and Watch_Dogs as well as the Rabbids (which spun off from a Rayman game) over the last decade, so Rayman took a back seat to those series following the launch of Rayman Legends. That's why Rayman in the Phantom Show is a big deal for fans of this dormant franchise; it's the most prominent role Rayman has had in a console game in almost a decade.
Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope is a turn-based strategy game that launched on Nintendo Switch to critical acclaim last year. This latest (and final) piece of post-launch DLC for the game follows Rayman, Rabbid Peach, and Rabbid Mario as they take on the Phantom -- a boss from Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle -- in an otherworldly TV studio called the Space Opera Network. David Gasman, who voiced the titular character in Rayman 3: Hoodlum Havoc, reprises his role here.
It's not a full-on platformer, but the reveal trailer for the DLC does show how players can use Rayman's detachable limbs and helicopter ability to explore the Space Opera network. At least it's something that looks pretty entertaining for fans of classic Rayman, who Ubisoft hasn't appealed to in quite a long time. Hopefully, it's as good as Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle's excellent Donkey Kong DLC.
Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope is available now exclusively for Nintendo Switch. Rayman in the Phantom Show comes out on August 30, and it can be purchased individually or as part of Spark of Hope's season pass.
Gaming Mario Kart 8 Deluxe's next big update, Booster Course Pass: Wave 5, launches on July 12. Nintendo shared a new trailer for the DLC showing off its eight tracks, which includes a few classics from Mario Kart Wii, Double Dash, and more.
Wave 5 of the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass launches July 12th! Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
