Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Metroid Dread review: The queen is back, all hail the queen By Giovanni Colantonio Close $60.00 Genuinely creepy Fine-tuned combat Tough, but fair bosses Rewarding exploration Detailed environments Slow start Some repetitive bosses Dread has always been a driving force in the Metroid franchise.
 It’s what you feel in Metroid 2: Return of Samus when exiting planet SR388 in eerie silence, as the final baby of a species you’ve just eradicated lovingly follows behind. It’s a feeling that hangs in the air all through Metroid Fusion , as Samus helplessly hides from a dead-eyed parasitic doppelganger that stalks her.
Metroid Dread , the first original 2D Metroid game in 19 years, doubles down on that brand of sci-fi anxiety to create a true Nintendo horror game.
Hunter becomes the hunted Super Smash Sister Exploring ZDR Our take The basics of the series are still entirely present. It’s an adventure game where Samus explores a mysterious planet sector by sector, gets a steady drip of power-ups, and scours every corner she can for secrets. But the backdrop is more unnerving this time. Four games worth of reckless missions come back to haunt Samus in a more story-driven game where history actually matters.
All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond All secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder All cross-platform games (PS5, Xbox Series X, PS4, Xbox One, Switch, PC) Metroid Dread reclaims the “Metroidvania”’ throne with one of Nintendo’s most difficult, haunting, and stylish games in ages. New movement and combat techniques freshen up a classic formula, but story is its real secret weapon. This is an engrossing sci-fi thriller that oozes nervous energy, bringing the series’ best qualities firmly into focus.
Related Guides Metroid Dread Beginner’s Guide Best Weapons in Metroid Dead Aeon Abilities Guide Hunter becomes the hunted Samus’ story picks up right where Metroid Fusion left off 19 years ago. After wiping out the brain-sucking Metroid species and the X Parasites, she gets called to do more dirty work that the Galactic Federation is too scared to do. It turns out that an X Parasite was spotted on Planet ZDR, so the Federation sent seven robots, known as E.M.M.I., to extract it. The only problem? They’ve gone off the grid. In a horror movie , this is the moment where you plead with the hero to not step into the obviously haunted house. But a gig’s a gig for an independent contractor.
Naturally, things go south when Samus gets to ZDR, and that’s where the horror premise starts to take root. In a surprising twist, the rogue E.M.M.I. serve as the game’s primary antagonists for much of the game, as they try to hunt Samus down. It’s a bit of a mixed success that makes the game’s opening two hours feel a little slow at times. An eagerness to overexplain leads to a misfired introduction to the robots, as Samus evades one with ease, finds a powerful one-time-use Alpha Cannon, and blasts the robot to bits in the span of a minute. That takes a bite out of the fear factor right off the bat. Imagine if Jaws opened with someone killing Jaws, and then everyone freaked out as a second shark appeared.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Fortunately, Dread recovers from that early misstep. E.M.M.I. encounters become much more tense as the robots become more advanced. Soon, they’re able to squeeze through tight passages or run much faster, becoming much harder to evade. They’re a cross between Alien ’s Xenomorphs and Boston Dynamics’ robotics — and just as unsettling as both.
When Samus finally gets the Alpha Cannon, she’s still not safe. She needs to chip off an E.M.M.I. armor plating by carefully blasting it with a heated beam before charging up a shot capable of a one-hit kill. That leads to incredibly nerve-wracking sequences where players need to stand their ground and keep shooting as an E.M.M.I. gets closer and closer. If a robot grabs Samus, she’s dead unless she can hit a split-second counter, so the tension is high (even if the consequences for dying are little more than a minor inconvenience).
Metroid Dread gets into some gnarly body horror, going full David Cronenberg at times.
While the E.M.M.I. are front and center in the game’s marketing material, they actually aren’t its most effective use of fear.
Metroid Dread gets into some gnarly body horror, going full David Cronenberg at times. A boss shoots slimy stones from gaping holes in its stomach. One backdrop features a wriggling monster being stabbed and prodded by machine arms. Moments like that only amp up throughout the experience, as the story takes some harrowing turns.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What makes the game’s use of horror most effective is the fact that it’s rooted in history. Most Nintendo games tend to soft reset before a mascot’s next adventure. That’s not the case here. There are real consequences for Samus’ actions in games like Metroid Fusion.
 She reaps what she sows here, making Metroid Dread truly feel like a nightmarish culmination for the Metroid saga.
Super Smash Sister The creepy story is a main draw here, but it doesn’t get in the way of what Metroid does best. Combat and exploration are as expertly intermingled as ever thanks to developer Mercury Steam. During E3, longtime series producer and director Yoshio Sakamoto noted that the decision to revive the series came after seeing how well the developer handled its Metroid 2 remake on Nintendo 3DS. That was the right call; Mercury Steam gets Metroid.
Combat has especially been improved here thanks to a whole batch of new and returning mechanics. Free-aiming returns from Metroid: Samus Returns , allowing Samus to stop and aim in all directions. That brings a level of precision to both battles and exploration, letting Mercury Steam design puzzles and fights that aren’t so rigid.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The melee counter is back, too, and more fine-tuned this time around. Samus can parry enemies at the right moment, resulting in a satisfying thwack. The melee isn’t just contained to counters this time, though. Players can hit it at any point to knock an enemy back, giving them more space to fight and deepening the standard arm cannon fights.
Mobility and combat go hand-in-hand here, as many techniques serve a dual purpose. Performing a running melee isn’t only a good way to hit an enemy, but also an effective way to hop across platforms. Samus can slide here, allowing her to dash through narrow spaces, but it’s more exciting as a battle option. Usually, if there’s an enemy floating low to the ground, you’d have to stop and shoot it before moving forward. Instead, Samus can dash under it, shooting up at it as she slides.
It’s a much more active experience this time, one that makes me feel like I’m controlling the Super Smash Bros. version of Samus, acrobatics and all.
The improved battles are especially noticeable in boss fights, which are some of the toughest I’ve played in a Nintendo game in quite some time. Big battles require a mastery of Samus’ entire move set. In an early fight, she needs to slide under a monster’s legs to avoid an attack, carefully aim at its waving tail, and counter it at the right second to initiate a thrilling cinematic sequence where players still control the action by shooting missiles. Some bosses chewed me up and spit me back out in seconds, forcing me to spend a dozen attempts slowly learning their patterns and figuring out how my arsenal could counter each move. A few sub-bosses get recycled one too many times, but every milestone encounter feels entirely different from the others.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Metroid Dread ’s battles feel classic and modern in the same breath. I’m taken back to the original Metroid, where I’d need to pump dozens of missiles into Kraid to win. But it’s a much more active experience this time, one that makes me feel like I’m controlling the Super Smash Bros. version of Samus, acrobatics and all.
Exploring ZDR Exploration is core to Metroid’s DNA, and that’s preserved here, too, though it takes a bit to get going. The first few hours railroad players with more roadblocks than usual in an attempt to keep the story moving forward. It’s a slow burn, but fortunately, the game opens up in a big way after giving players a few key tools in rapid succession.
As soon as I was able to go off the beaten path, I was reminded of why Metroid is especially good at what it does. Many of its secrets feel legitimately secret, hiding behind tricky puzzles or out of view entirely. As I entered my usual late-game collection hunt, I started realizing that there were unusual gaps on my map. Sure enough, I’d start hunting around, only to find a hidden entrance on a wall I’d passed over that took me to an entire series of hidden puzzle rooms.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Metroid Dread gives players a few tools to make the process easier, such as a way to scan for hidden blocks and a map that gives a general shape of the whole area, but getting to 100% still requires some thorough investigation and problem-solving. There are still items I can’t quite reach because I’ve yet to crack their code.
It fully realizes some of its strengths to create a game that feels like the most complete vision of a Metroid game yet.
It helps that the game really invites players to explore and soak in its atmosphere. Planet ZDR features visually striking biomes, from lush alien landscapes to hauntingly sterile E.M.M.I. zones. Rather than feeling like a vague collection of corridors, each room actually feels like a living space. Tons of attention has gone into creating detailed backdrops in every room, to the point where I can’t help but stop and observe. In one room early on, I catch some sort of cloaked enemy dashing through water in the distance, signaling an impending fight. In another, I watch a giant plant seemingly swallow a creature whole. That last one isn’t even foreshadowing; it’s just there to give the biome character.
Most Metroidvania games tend to pick a side when it comes to combat and exploration.
Axiom Verge 2 features genius traversal tools that top Metroid’s, but its battle system feels comparatively shallow.
Metroid Dread makes no such compromises. It doubles down on everything the series has been known for. More importantly, it fully realizes some of its strengths to create a game that feels like the most complete vision of a Metroid game yet. Let’s just hope it’s not another 19 years until the next adventure.
Our take Metroid Dread is the exact jolt of energy the Metroid series needed. What’s 19 years old feels new again thanks to sharp gameplay additions that enhance both battles and exploration. It especially excels in its atmosphere and storytelling, creating an Alien -esque sci-fi horror story that takes the franchise’s space opera to eerie new heights. The queen is back to remind us who puts the Metroid in Metroidvania.
Is there a better alternative? Indies like Axiom Verge and Hollow Knight are strong cheaper options, but Metroid Dread is the best title at this scale aside from Ori and the Will of the Wisps.
How long will it last? I hit 67% completion in eight and a half hours. A 100% playthrough will take between 10 and 15 hours, making it comparable to Metroid: Samus Returns in length.
Should you buy it? Yes.
Metroid Dread is an exceptional entry in the series that’s tougher (and far creepier) than your average Nintendo game.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder All Super Mario Bros. Wonder power-ups, ranked All Flarlic locations in Pikmin 4 The best Nintendo Switch games for adults Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is a massive open-world game with an abundance of puzzles to solve, enemies to fell, and secrets to discover. If you want to make the most of your exploration, though, you'll be swapping your gear around from time to time to take advantage of some armor's various passive bonuses. We've compiled a list of every armor set in the game so that you can make informed decisions about which ones you'd like to cycle through.
All armor sets in Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Here are all of the armor sets we've found so far.
Archaic Set Archaic Tunic Archaic Legwear Gaming The Great Fairies have been in most Zelda titles since the very beginning, so it should come as no surprise that they once again appear in The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom. These friendly spirits have offered many different types of aid to the hero of time in his adventures, such as teaching him new magic, upgrading his equipment, and unlocking new abilities. With the world of Hyrule now bigger than ever, the Great Fairies are more difficult to find than ever.
If you need help tracking down all the Great Fairies in Tears of the Kingdom and want to know what they do, we've got you covered.
What Great Fairies do Gaming While Amiibo are so cool that you may just want to display them, they still do serve functions in just about every Nintendo Switch game. Scanning them usually unlocks some type of reward in-game, which is true in both The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and the new The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom. There are dozens of Amiibo out there already, and even a couple of brand new ones made specifically for Link's latest adventures, so scanning them all in is close to impossible. Thankfully, not all of them have unique rewards, but there are a handful that you might want to consider scooping up for some special unlocks. Here are all the Tears of the Kingdom Amiibo rewards and how to activate them.
How to activate Amiibo To access any Amiibo reward in Tears of the Kingdom, you need to first enable them by pausing the game and going to the System Menu. From here, simply change the amiibo disabled tab to Use amiibo.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
