Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Features Metroid Prime Remastered makes one of the best games of all time even better By Giovanni Colantonio Close After countless rumors and years of disappointment as those leaks failed to materialize, Metroid Prime Remastered is finally a reality. Though its existence may not have come at a shock at this point, Nintendo’s surprise shadow launch of it following this week’s Direct showcase certainly caught fans off guard. Shortly after the presentation wrapped up, I was unexpectedly revisiting my favorite video game of all time with all of its creative glory intact.
A prime remaster Metroid shine As its name implies, Metroid Prime Remastered isn’t a total overhaul of the Nintendo GameCube classic.
 Every second from the first-person adventure game unfolds exactly as you remember it, from its thrilling opening aboard an abandoned space frigate to its mournful trek through Phendrana Drifts. The visuals have been modernized and a new control layout makes it play like a modern shooter, but those are the only real changes you’ll find through the adventure.
That’s the right approach for a game as perfect as Metroid Prime.
 While it might have been tempting to give the original a Dead Space -type remake treatment, the GameCube title didn’t need modifying. Instead, the remaster does some quiet technical work to remind players why Samus’ first 3D outing is still an unparalleled adventure two decades later.
A prime remaster For the uninitiated, Metroid Prime is a unique game whose genre-hybrid style has only been replicated successfully a few times since its release. At a glance, it’s a first-person shooter, but that’s a slightly reductive read of it. While combat is an important part, it’s much more of a puzzle-platformer. Samus must navigate an alien planet by using her visors and abilities to complete environmental puzzles that build in complexity. Like a regular Metroid game, the adventure also has her regaining powers gradually, with each one opening up new paths and secrets as she backtracks through previously visited areas.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That gameplay style has found its way into games like Journey to the Savage Planet and High on Life in recent years, but Metroid Prime remains the best in its class. Upon picking it up, I’m immediately stunned by how ahead of its time the game still feels to this day. Movement is incredibly smooth, allowing me to perform precise platforming from a first-person view. Samus moves at a fast pace and her lock-on allows me to easily snap to enemies and interactable objects with the press of a button. Within two hours, I’ve already made my way through three biomes and picked up a slew of core abilities. I don’t even look up to check the clock during that span; it just whizzes by.
That’s where the remaster’s small changes make a difference. For instance, the new dual-stick control layout is an important change. In the original, Samus only moved with one stick, relying on strafes to get around. The GameCube’s C-stick was used to swap between her four weapons on the fly. In the new control scheme, the left stick now controls movement and the right handles camera like a standard shooter. Visors are flipped with the D-pad, while weapons are changed by pressing those buttons while holding X.
While the switch is so natural that some players might not even notice it, I quickly find that it improves my experience. I’m able to freely aim in a much more fluid fashion, allowing me to run and gun as opposed to stopping to fire. In one classic hallway in Chozo Ruins, I have to shoot eyeballs that fire green lasers to close them, granting me safe passage. In the original, I’d have to stop and shoot each one, making the room a bit annoying to backtrack through. This time, I’m able to barrel forward, shooting up at each eye as I pass under it. Tiny moments like that better keep my momentum up, emphasizing the game’s quick pace.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What’s especially great, though, is that there’s a bit of extra control tinkering available. In addition to the classic scheme, players can enable the motion controls used in the Wii port of the original. A classic control scheme even combines those controls with the vintage one-stick setup. Further options allow me to enable gyroscope camera controls, swap my beam and missile buttons, and flip how I access beams and visors on my D-pad menus. That slew of options opens up a game whose one barrier to entry was restrictive controls. With that removed, Metroid Prime is essentially as close to perfect as gaming gets.
Metroid shine Of course, the main draw of any remaster is updated visuals — and Metroid Prime Remastered absolutely delivers on that front. The touch-up is apparent right from the game’s astonishing opening, where a destroyed frigate floats through space as an enormous orange planet looms in the background. The sequence has always been a striking, atmospheric opening and it’s even more jaw-dropping with cleaner visuals and smoother lines.
What Retro Studios understands here is that the original Metroid Prime didn’t need much of an overhaul. Its memorable art direction, which combines sci-fi machinery with natural alien landscapes, is timeless in the same way The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker ’s is. Rather than rebuilding its levels, it simply adds a bit more detail and tunes up its lighting. The difference is notable when you look at screenshots from the original and remaster side by side, but the latter just emphasizes the gorgeous art that was already present in the former.
Side by side of the original and remastered Metroid Prime (second image is super lo-res since its very old). Obviously a notable difference in detail, smoothness, and lighting. But look how fantastic that baseline vista is even in the old game! pic.twitter.com/enDEYAuorG &mdash; Giovanni Colantonio (@MarioPrime) February 9, 2023 I especially notice that change in Phendrana Drifts, the game’s ice world. The biome has always been a standout level thanks to its snowy vistas and thick patches of ice. The remaster honors that by making the whites whiter, reducing some of the gray slush tone of the original, and adding more detail to its rocky cliffsides. That’s frankly all the original needed. A smoother image allows me to marvel at its awe-inspiring landscapes through fresh eyes, giving me that same sense of the sublime I felt 20 years ago.
In terms of new upgrades, there’s not much else to speak of. Doors load much faster, which means you won’t find yourself impatiently waiting for one to open anymore. A UI tweak adds a few slivers of metal to the screen, making it feel more like players are looking through Samus’ helmet. Could it have used more changes? Sure, there’s always room for improvement. A lack of auto-save means I find myself having to backtrack through three biomes after dying during the Adult Sheegoth boss battle. More flexible modern touches like that could have alleviated a few headaches, but I have virtually nothing to complain about. My favorite game of all time is even better now. What more can you ask for? Metroid Prime Remastered is exactly what it needed to be: a simple preservation effort that doesn’t go overboard with changes. Sometimes a full remake is necessary to keep a game’s legacy intact; sometimes the original speaks for itself.
 The latter is true of Metroid Prime , which still feels as inventive and forward-thinking as it did in 2002. If that doesn’t get you excited for the long-delayed Metroid Prime 4 , I don’t know what will.
Metroid Prime Remastered is available now on Nintendo Switch.
Editors' Recommendations One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month The best third-party video game controller is about to get even better What games will Nintendo Switch 2 launch with? We have some ideas I rated this summer’s biggest gaming showcases. This was the best one One year later, Marvel Snap is my favorite mobile game of all time Amazon Features Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming As a puzzle game fan, my favorite part of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild is its shrines. These mini-dungeons often act as ingenious little puzzle chambers that test my understanding of the game’s abilities and physics. I was thrilled when I loaded up The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom and immediately found that the development team kept that idea intact for the sequel. I’d have over 150 new shrines to hunt down, including a handful that were unlocked via navigation puzzles in the open world.
It’s not just the fact that shrines return, though, that got me excited; it’s the fact that they’re even better this time around. That’s thanks in large part to how they interact with the sequel’s crafting systems, serving a larger purpose beyond giving Link some scattered challenges to solve.
Driving permit exams Tears of the Kingdom’s shrines aren’t much different from Breath of the Wild’s on paper. Each one functions like a Portal test chamber built around a specific gameplay mechanic or theme. One has players solving puzzles using buoyancy physics, while another has them ascending their way to the top of a rotating cube. Even combat-focused shrines have specific gimmicks this time, testing players’ mastery of specific item fusions or environmental interactions.
Gaming Trying to pick the best video games of all time is a task defined by one word: hubris.
How could anyone possibly create a definitive list of gaming's greatest accomplishments when there’s such a wildly large variety of games to choose from? That’s a question we asked ourselves over and over when deciding to put together our own top 50 list. It was the kind of task we could slice up hundreds of ways, coming out with completely different lists every single time based on our preferred methodology. That’s a testament to the rich history of games, which offer countless diverse experiences worthy of praise.
Gaming After more than a decade of disappointment, Metroid fans are currently thriving in the Nintendo Switch era. That’s a result of recent releases like the fantastic Metroid Dread and an excellent remaster of Metroid Prime. That list expands today thanks to Nintendo Switch Online, as Metroid Fusion is now available to play for Expansion Pack subscribers. The addition of the Game Boy Advance classic marks an important moment for fans of the series, as the complete 2D Metroid saga is now available on one system.
That might not sound like a big deal depending on your familiarity with the series. From an outside perspective, Metroid games are more known for their genre-defining exploration gameplay more than their narratives. The original Metroid, for instance, tells a fairly bare-bones story of a bounty hunter heading to a planet to kill aliens. Most of the series’ 2D games seemingly function as standalone adventures that place their heroine in self-contained adventures every time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
