Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews Monster Hunter Rise review: A grand hunt that’s far from over By Josh Brown Close $60.00 Optimized, fair combat Gorgeous visuals Full of charm and detail Deep, but streamlined RPG systems Too dependent on post-game updates Frame rate spikes With each new Monster Hunter title comes a streamlined experience designed to shred the notion that Capcom’s biggest series is a punishing grind that’s out to make you weep. On the surface, Monster Hunter Rise could easily be mistaken for a figurative Monster Hunter World Lite –a less visually striking Action RPG that simplifies Capcom’s most successful game yet to run on the compact and comparatively weak Nintendo Switch console. But that couldn’t be further from the truth.
Web-slinging wins again Hope you like Dango Tower defense makes everything better Our take Monster Hunter Rise is a brilliant standalone entry that builds upon what the previous game did both right and wrong. It takes the franchise another bold step forward in the right direction while retaining just enough of the old-school charm to not further alienate veterans left wanting after the last. Whether it outshines what came before, though, depends on what the future has in store.
Monster Hunter Rise is coming to PlayStation and Xbox, minus cross-platform saves Sonic Frontiers and Monster Hunter cross over with free DLC Monster Hunter Rise: Sunbreak introduces a vampiric dragon Web-slinging wins again As in previous games , Monster Hunter Rise pits you against terrifying beasts at the top of their respective food chains. The titular monster hunts are lengthy battles of brain and brawn where even a poorly timed chug of a potion can open you up to a world of hurt. Unforgivingly long animations and steep learning curves have sent many hunters packing over the years. It’s that stigma that recent titles have attempted to shake without foregoing what made it great.
Built to add a new level of verticality and speed to the traditionally sluggish combat system, the crowning achievement of Monster Hunter Rise is the Wirebug system. This new swiftly-recharging resource allows players to web-sling their way through any given part of the hunt, turning the largely grounded experience of past games into a far more fluid and reactionary affair.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Whether you’re lugging around a hefty hammer or packing lightweight dual blades, you can close in on fast-moving targets, zip out of harm’s way, or quickly execute a bunch of flashy weapon-specific assaults at the push of a button. It’s both an offensive and defensive toolkit that builds upon the situational Wedge Beetle and arguably unbalanced Clutch Claw from the previous title, with at least a half-dozen reasons to use it arising every second.
Everything about the core formula has been optimized to the tee.
There’s a level of expertise needed to properly time a Wirebug skill, though. Committing to the assault is like watching a game-deciding shot unfold in your favorite sport. It’s a tense moment of judgment with plenty of risk, and you’ll doubt your decision until the moment you touch down. From large enemy attacks you can vault over to sling-shotting yourself from the quest hub and straight into a seat at the restaurant for a pre-hunt meal, it’s clear the game was designed around the Wirebug from the get-go.
As the possibilities present themselves, it’ll be hard to go back to a time before. Everything about the core formula has been optimized to the tee. From seamless battlefields littered with supplies to a level of player mobility far and away from the franchise norm, there’s virtually zero downtime between battles. Once you decide the hunt is on, it’s on.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Another part of what enables the break-neck pace of Monster Hunter Rise is the return of open-world gameplay. Though noticeably less dense and detailed compared to the last major release, Rise features sprawling zones that, at a glance, often dwarf that of its predecessor. The reduction in ground clutter results in areas that feel less nestled in farfetched fantasy and better suited to the frantic action of the hunt, with tools like Great Wirebugs, additional spawn camps, and your rideable Palamute doggy pal helping make traversing the grandiose locales an adventure in and of itself.
To keep fast-travel from shrinking the scope of the world, creatures able to boost your combat prowess are strategically scattered around, creating just enough reason to take the long route to your target. There are even a bunch of secret messages masterfully hidden around each map for the lore-hungry few to scout out when not on the clock that should take a good while to fully uncover.
Hope you like Dango As a potential casualty of the effort to streamline the core experience, Kamura Village is a little smaller than your typical in-game quest hub. But with a smaller village comes a greater concentration of the franchise’s charming cast of throwaway characters. The people of Kamura Village range from quaint and elegant, to rough, boisterous, and theatrical–though some signature janky facial animations can cause the English localization to result in some cringy and uncomfortable cutscenes.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s a slight shame to see the Meowster Chef get axed after making his silver-screen debut in last year’s live-action movie, but Yomogi the Chef and her cute little rice-pounding kitties inject a level of cuteness that was sorely missed in the gruff and goofy Monster Hunter World.
 Skip the adorable song and dance that comes free with your meal of dubious nutritional value and you’ll prove you’re the real monster. Like much of the game’s soundtrack, you’ll struggle to resist whistling along as she skewers the little pudding pops like the culinary ninja she actually is.
Skip the adorable song and dance that comes free with your meal of dubious nutritional value and you’ll prove you’re the real monster.
And the fun goes beyond the characters, too. When you’re in need of supplies, it’s your awkward dog that has to pull its weight by heading off on a submarine voyage to barter for the goods while your feline friend waves goodbye from the safety of the shore. The more handy animals you adopt, the more arduous labor you’re able to have them passively complete while you’re out there risking life and limb. Just keep telling yourself they’re happy to do it.
Tower defense makes everything better Not content with relying solely on the Wirebug to carry the game forward, the new Rampage quest type shakes up the formula even further. It’s not quite the stampede the occasional loading screen art depicts, but it’s well worth getting excited for. Rampage builds upon the Siege missions of past titles, only swapping out monsters of world-shattering size for dozens of the breeds you tackle on your regular quests.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s a glorified tower defense mode in all but name. Waves of beasts charge over the fences and you’re tasked with setting up the cannons, ballistae, and even machine guns needed to fend them off. Your strategy isn’t forced on you through an arbitrary build limit, either. You can set up as much artillery as you want. You’re only limited by how quickly you can fling yourself to one gun or the other to keep the beasties from bashing down the walls and smashing the village.
Monster Hunter has always been about tense altercations, and if what Rise has to offer right now is any indication, things will really heat up over the course of its life.
Things start off rather tamely, but as Rampage missions often bar you from the next level of quests, it’s here where you’ll endure some of the game’s most gripping moments–especially in co-op. Having a team of four juggle various types of heavy artillery, stoking the fires to repair damaged turrets, or trying to line up an explosive blast as a last resort is as exhilarating as it is mentally exhausting. Monster Hunter has always been about tense altercations, and if what Rise has to offer right now is any indication, things will really heat up over the course of its life.
Which gets us onto some of the more uncertain parts of the title. For series veterans, Monster Hunter World was a case of quality over quantity: A relatively short game with little challenge. Even by the end of its run, its monster roster lagged behind that of Monster Hunter Generations Ultimate.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Like it or not, there’s a similar story unfolding here.
Monster Hunter Rise lands with around 31 old, new, and returning favorite beasties to hunt. It’s not a small number by any stretch of the imagination, but it suggests history is repeating itself. Even higher difficulty content–often considered the “true” experience–is locked behind pending free updates. There’s still plenty on offer between the single-player campaign, multiplayer quests, and arena battles, but if you were hoping for a complete, it’s time to simmer those expectations. It might not have quite enough content to satisfy franchise veterans banking on the team to right the few wrongs of Monster Hunter World , but there are still dozens of hours of gripping gameplay to sink your sword into.
Our take A sign of stellar game design, Capcom has yet again managed to inject a new lease on life into the franchise without watering down what made it so special almost 20 years ago. Rampages are a riot and Wirebugs are a triumph, opening the door to heart-stopping combat rolls and first-pumping combos and will have even newcomers feeling like master hunters at the push of a button.
Post-game updates will ultimately decide whether this is a sure-fire classic or simply a solid stepping stone to something greater, but even at launch, Monster Hunter has never felt better. It’s an absolute must-play and another reason to never doubt Nintendo’s little tablet that could.
Is there a better alternative out there? Yes and no.
Monster Hunter Generations Ultimate is the better value game right now. The Hunter Style system is a precursor to Monster Hunter of today. It’s still a blast to experiment with, but the higher difficulty curve can be off-putting to those just looking for a bit of fun. If you don’t have much experience with the franchise’s past, Rise is the place to be right now.
How long will it last? You can burn through the core experience here in around 100 hours. Far less if you’re only in it for the story. Free post-launch updates will keep it going for at least a year, but it’s far from the richest game in the series.
Should you buy it If you’re a fan of intense action RPGs, there’s very little like it on the Nintendo Switch right now. It’s a must-have. Once you get to grips with the combat, squeezing in a hunt in a hurry is a rewarding experience.
Editors' Recommendations Monster Hunter Rise won’t support cross-progression between PS4 and PS5 A Monster Hunter mobile game by the Pokémon Unite team is in the works Monster Hunter Rise Sunbreak DLC: All new monsters explained Monster Hunter Rise: Sunbreak refreshes the game in June Monster Hunter Rise on PC won’t support Switch cross-saves Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming After a nearly yearlong wait, Monster Hunter fans on PC will finally be able to play the latest entry in the franchise. Capcom's Monster Hunter Spotlight show at this year's Tokyo Game Show revealed that Monster Hunter Rise will finally be coming to PC via Steam on January 12, 2022 -- and with a ton of PC-specific improvements and features to boot.
Monster Hunter Rise - Steam / PC Trailer [4K/60fps] Gaming Monster Hunter Rise's additional content roadmap continues with a surprising crossover: Okami. This new inclusion, called Capcom Collab 2, brings the main character of Okami, Amaterasu (nicknamed Ammy), to Rise as a Palamute layered armor set on July 30.
Monster Hunter Rise - Okami Collab Gaming Monster Hunter games have only gotten more and more user-friendly with each release. The oldest games were nearly impenetrable (even for dedicated players) to fully understand without outside help. Monster Hunter: World helped streamline many systems, and the latest game for the Nintendo Switch, Monster Hunter: Rise, goes a step further toward letting players skip all the confusing inventory and system management so they can get right to the good stuff: Hunting giant monsters.
That said, each new game does need to add some new systems and mechanics in order to keep things fresh for those who are dedicated to the series. Monster Hunter: Rise's most flashy and featured additions were the new ride-able pets, but there was plenty more added under the hood. Affinity, for one, is a stat that isn't easily decoded just by the name alone, unlike attack, for example. Add in the fact that there are dozens of skills to keep track of, and it can be easy to just ignore Affinity. However, this isn't a stat you should ignore. Here's everything you need to know about what Affinity is and how to improve it in Monster Hunter: Rise.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
