Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin review: A less intimidating hunt By Giovanni Colantonio Close $60.00 Addictive monster collecting Excellent RPG combat Deep customization Tons of content Frame rate stutters Repetitive maps Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin is the perfect entry point for newcomers to the series. No, really.
Gotta hatch ’em all Rock, paper, monsters Ride on Our take That statement has become a bit of a meme in recent years as Monster Hunter fans paint each new release as “accessible.” Monster Hunter Rise came close to making that a reality, but the franchise’s cornerstone complexity and headache-inducing interface still make it an intimidating experience for total newbies.
By comparison, Monster Hunter Stories 2 is much more digestible. It features many of the same basics, but presented in a simplified manner that’s easier to parse. Even though it’s a completely different experience — a turn-based, Pokémon-like RPG instead of a hacking-and-slashing action game — it explains the fundamentals of the franchise much clearer than Monster Hunter World or Rise.
Monster Hunter Rise is coming to PlayStation and Xbox, minus cross-platform saves Sonic Frontiers and Monster Hunter cross over with free DLC Monster Hunter Rise: Sunbreak refreshes the game in June Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin is a friendly alternative to the franchise’s usual grind. Even with some repetitive level design, it offers up an excellent combat system, a compelling story, and a deep endgame that make it a perfect RPG for anyone who’s looking for a more laid-back hunt.
Gotta hatch ’em all On its surface, Monster Hunter Stories 2 seems like an entirely different beast. The game is a sequel to a Nintendo 3DS game that puts players in the role of a monster rider, not a hunter. The main difference is that riders befriend and work together with monsters. That gives the game a Pokémon-like gameplay loop where players collect and raise monsters, keeping six on them at a time.
For Pokémon fans who have been let down by the franchise’s continually decreasing difficulty, Monster Hunter Stories 2 is an excellent alternative. The monster-collecting hook is addictive, giving players tons of creatures to discover. The Rite of Channeling feature acts as a sort of breeding mechanic that lets players pass one monster’s trait on to another. It’s a deep system that opens up limitless possibilities for team building.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Granted, there is some cognitive dissonance to the experience. While it’s a sweeter concept compared to the standard hunting loop, it takes a bit to get past some initial discomfort. Players essentially kill (or beat the snot out of) a monster, break into its den, steal one of its eggs, and raise the baby as their own. For those who’ve found Monster Hunter’s colonization undertones difficult to swallow, this version certainly presents some tougher moral discomfort upfront.
For Pokémon fans who have been let down by the franchise’s continually decreasing difficulty, Monster Hunter Stories 2 is an excellent alternative.
Despite that, the game did ultimately win me over with its intriguing story — something that escaped Monster Hunter Rise.
 It’s a sprawling narrative that explores the different ways people and societies have chosen to interact with monsters, whether through peace or violence. That’s all tied together by a mysterious, lore-rich story where players must uncover what’s making monsters act erratic all over the continent.
The game sports a wonderful aesthetic, too, with vibrant colors and high-quality cinematics. At times, it feels like watching a Monster Hunter anime, with thrilling action sequences and dazzling battle animations. The game’s frame rate unfortunately stutters on Switch, but every time I booted it up, I found myself fully lost in a colorful and richly detailed world.
Rock, paper, monsters The core hook of the game is its fantastic turn-based combat system.
Monster Hunter Stories 2 employs a Fire Emblem-esque “rock, paper, scissors” mechanic for battles. Players have three types of basic attacks: Power, technical, and speed. In fights against monsters, players need to predict what type of attack a monster will unleash and counter it with one of their own.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That works as well as it does because the game gives players the right tools to solve that little combat puzzle. Each monster uses a basic attack type, but might switch to another if it gets enraged. By the end of the game, I could look at a monster I’d never seen and deduce how it would attack based on the way other creatures behaved. It rewards players who think like a rider and really take the time to observe and remember how nature works.
Despite being turn-based, battles stay true to the basics of Monster Hunter in clever ways.
Monster sidekicks play an important role in battles, too. Each breed has its own basic attack type, so players need to build a party that covers all the bases. Swapping in a new monster midfight doesn’t burn a turn, which gives players the flexibility to adapt to a new battle and not worry about bringing a Pukei-Pukei to an Anjanath fight.
Creating the perfect team goes much deeper than that, though. Monsters can learn a variety of skills, from elemental attacks to teamwide buffs. That gives players a strong reason to continually seek out new creatures and experiment with the Channeling mechanic to broaden a creature’s tool kit.
Battles are less about micromanaging teammates and more about maintaining a bond with a monster. Perform the same attack type as a companion and the duo may execute a combo attack that dishes out more damage. Actions like that increase a kinship gauge, which can be spent to perform specific skills. When the gauge is full, a player can ride their monster to deal out devastating attacks complete with dazzling animations. Little systems like that made me feel genuinely close with each of my pals, really selling the rider concept.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Despite being turn-based, battles stay true to the basics of Monster Hunter in clever ways. There’s a variety of weapon types, which have their pros and cons against certain monsters. Players can easily target specific monster body parts in battles to knock off valuable crafting parts for armor and weapons. It all feels streamlined compared to a game like Monster Hunter Rise , which buries systems like that in walls of tutorial text or inscrutable UI. I found myself learning basic ideas that I never quite grasped in Rise here.
Of course, it’s a completely different type of game, so it’s not entirely fair to compare the two.
Monster Hunter Rise is an excellent action RPG that thrives on complexity.
Monster Hunter Stories 2 is a more controlled, tactical experience. Each is a perfect fit for the kind of story it’s trying to tell; it’s just a matter of what speed you prefer.
Ride on What’s especially impressive about Monster Hunter Stories 2 is how much content is packed into the experience. Mainlining the story will take 30 hours, but there’s so much more depth beyond the main story. Sidequests, arena battles, royal monsters, and an entire post-launch road map add a ton of reasons to dig in deeper. In the middle of my playthrough, I just started throwing music on in the background and kicking back for some monster-collecting expeditions.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s multiplayer as well, both in the form of co-op play and PvP battles. The latter offers the game some serious long-term potential, as it gives players yet another reason to engage with the game’s collecting and breeding mechanics to create stronger monsters with unpredictable skills.
It’s a repetitive game, though that’s just as much a part of Monster Hunter as giant swords.
While there’s no shortage of things to do, it can wear thin at times. Long fights against powerful monsters tend to drag on, though combat can be sped up to three times speed. Monster dens and explorable areas take cues from dungeon crawlers. That means that levels can be a somewhat bland string of narrow passages leading into open areas. By the end of the game, I was noticing rooms that were identical to areas I’d seen time and time again, despite being on a different part of the island entirely.
It’s a repetitive game, though that’s just as much a part of Monster Hunter as giant swords. The series invites players to learn complex routines and settle into a flow. The key difference in Monster Hunter Stories 2 is that it all builds to an actual end point, as opposed to continuing on as a Sisyphean live-service grind.
 There’s a mystery to uncover and one big bad to slay at the end of the day.
That change of pace allows players to experience the world and ideas of Monster Hunter without the intimidating commitment, which is a big plus.
Our take Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin is a top-notch spinoff that cleverly distills the complexities of Monster Hunter into a friendlier RPG. Rewarding combat and a thoroughly entertaining story make up for repetitive map design and a stuttering frame rate. For those who found Monster Hunter Rise too intimidating, this is a better way to get a grasp on the basic ideas in a less demanding, turn-based format.
Is there a better alternative? Monster Hunter Rise might be an overall stronger game, though it’s an entirely different animal.
How long will it last? The story takes 30 hours minimum, but dedicated players can spend dozens of extra hours exploring the world. That’s not even including the game’s upcoming content.
Should you buy it? Yes.
Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin is one of the year’s best turn-based RPGs and it’s perfect for fans of both Monster Hunter and Pokémon.
Editors' Recommendations Monster Hunter Rise won’t support cross-progression between PS4 and PS5 A Monster Hunter mobile game by the Pokémon Unite team is in the works Monster Hunter Rise Sunbreak DLC: All new monsters explained Monster Hunter Rise on PC won’t support Switch cross-saves Monster Hunter Rise coming to PC next year with 4K support Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Monster Hunter Rise's additional content roadmap continues with a surprising crossover: Okami. This new inclusion, called Capcom Collab 2, brings the main character of Okami, Amaterasu (nicknamed Ammy), to Rise as a Palamute layered armor set on July 30.
Monster Hunter Rise - Okami Collab Gaming Monster Hunter games have only gotten more and more user-friendly with each release. The oldest games were nearly impenetrable (even for dedicated players) to fully understand without outside help. Monster Hunter: World helped streamline many systems, and the latest game for the Nintendo Switch, Monster Hunter: Rise, goes a step further toward letting players skip all the confusing inventory and system management so they can get right to the good stuff: Hunting giant monsters.
That said, each new game does need to add some new systems and mechanics in order to keep things fresh for those who are dedicated to the series. Monster Hunter: Rise's most flashy and featured additions were the new ride-able pets, but there was plenty more added under the hood. Affinity, for one, is a stat that isn't easily decoded just by the name alone, unlike attack, for example. Add in the fact that there are dozens of skills to keep track of, and it can be easy to just ignore Affinity. However, this isn't a stat you should ignore. Here's everything you need to know about what Affinity is and how to improve it in Monster Hunter: Rise.
Gaming Your adventures as a Monster Rider in Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin will take you all over the continent. In your travels, you will quickly be introduced to Bottle Caps. That may sound like disposable trash, but Bottle Caps are actually one of the most influential items in the game. Where can you find them, and, more importantly, what are they good for? We've got all the answers you need in this guide to Bottle Caps.
Monster Hunter Stories 2 launch guide Monster Hunter Stories is getting Rise's palamute companion The best armor in Monster Hunter Rise Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
