Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Neon White review: Creative shooter is a heavenly delight By Giovanni Colantonio Close $24.99 Strong worldbuilding Ingenious card combat Fast and fun Packed with extras Not much freedom in levels Late stages can be a slog At a first glance, Neon White sounds like the kind of game that would have your local priest performing exorcisms. The indie shooter paints a grim portrait of the afterlife, one where divine judgment is turned into a gun bloodsport. But look below the surface sacrilege and you’ll find a more nuanced meditation of spirituality and the real heretics that weaponize it against the vulnerable.
Judgment day Shoot and discard Demon dating Our take Developed by Angel Matrix, Neon White is a genre-bending action game about a group of deceased misfits who have to fight their way into Heaven (literally). The oddball game has players collecting guns in the form of cards that can shoot enemies or be discarded to perform platforming moves. It’s a fast-paced action game about killing enough demons to appease a bloodthirsty God as part of a holy war that doesn’t smell right.
One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month The best Switch games for 2023 When does Hogwarts Legacy come out on Nintendo Switch? Through its stylish art and devilishly creative card combat, Neon White is a sharp-witted game about the hypocrisy that can often go hand-in-hand with religious fanaticism. Though it has some harsh words for zealots, it comes from a place of sincere spirituality instead of cynicism.
Judgment day When Neon White begins, the game’s protagonist is already dead. The amnesiac hero is in the afterlife awaiting entry into Heaven along with a host of mask-wearing humans who have all been renamed after colors (your given name? Neon White). The story’s left turn comes immediately: All the “Neons” are sinners who are being pitted against one another in a divine competition. Whoever can kill the most demons in God’s name will gain entry into the pearly gates.
Writer Ryann Shannon delivers a searing sermon about religious fear-mongering … It’s an immediately gripping setup. Right from the jump, it’s clear that something’s off as self-indulgent angels watch the violent proceedings like a Sunday derby. The central mystery at the heart of Neon White becomes more layered as each chapter progresses, revealing more about White, the other Neons, and the mechanics of the afterlife. It plays out like a full season of a good anime.
The worldbuilding is a highlight throughout. While it’s an action game primarily, it has a fair amount of visual novel DNA. Between each chapter, White spends time in a heavenly hub chatting with other characters that gradually paint a full picture of the world. It’s darkly comedic and a little absurd (flying cats play a major role in the story), but it isn’t silly or irreverent. Rather, writer Ryann Shannon delivers a searing sermon about religious fear-mongering and the loyal “believers” who never seem to follow their own advice.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It would be easy for a story like that to quickly dip into brow-beating atheistic territory, but I appreciate that Neon White doesn’t write off religion altogether. Instead, its story recognizes that spirituality can be a healthy force for good, especially for those who are simply looking for purpose or peace in a hectic world. Its heavenly gatekeepers may be snooty and judgmental, but the game sincerely believes that anyone is worthy of forgiveness, whether that be from up above or here on Earth.
Shoot and discard While its thoughtful story is worth delving into, Neon White ’s primary strength is its creative combat, which fuses first-person shooting, platforming, and card management. Levels are short speed gauntlets where players need to wipe out every demon before making it to an exit. Many of its 90+ levels are meant to be completed in under a minute, giving the game a hellishly fun breakneck pace.
The fun comes from orchestrating a violent ballet full of bullets and perfectly timed pirouettes.
Different guns (handgun, shotgun, the usual) appear in the form of cards. While a card is active, players can shoot demons. However, each card has an alternate action that’s activated by discarding it. Drop a rifle and White shoots forward in a straight line that can cut through walls and enemies. Trashing a submachine gun, on the other hand, allows White to perform a devastating stomp. The puzzle of each level is that players need to figure out when to spend ammo and when to activate an ability in order to clear out all enemies while platforming. It’s a series of lightning-fast decisions that are incredibly satisfying to string together.
The only thing that lets it down is a lack of freedom in each level. Cards are laid out strategically along a linear path, so there’s rarely much room for experimentation. When I pick up a handgun, I’m almost always going to be using it right away. That’s a positive in some respects, as it keeps the game from getting too complicated with deck management — something that would be too difficult to do at the game’s speed. Still, there were times when I left levels feeling like I’d ridden on a rollercoaster ride, as opposed to completing a fluid action scene.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Shorter levels work much better than some of the game’s longer late-game gauntlets too. In 30-second levels, it’s easy to find a path through a level and then spend time trying to achieve the perfect run (faster times unlock rewards like leaderboards). Later levels can begin to feel like a slog when you have to replay one minute of easy platforming to get back to the split-second moment that’s tripping you up. Some checkpoints in longer levels may have helped alleviate some of the late-game drag.
Those gripes aside, the action in Neon White is always sharp. It’s an execution-heavy game in the same vein as indies like Boomerang X , and like those games, the fun comes from orchestrating a violent ballet full of bullets and perfectly timed pirouettes. The game continues to layer new guns, abilities, enemies, and obstacles into each level, making every chapter feel like a fresh hell to be mastered.
Demon dating At around 12 hours casually, Neon White is a substantial game even before getting into its extra features. Its side-content is quite significant though, expanding the package into a challenge-packed action game that’ll last a while. There are nearly 100 well-designed levels to perfect, each of which has its own leaderboard, medal requirements, and collectible gifts that unlock after it has been cleared once.
Call it a heavenly delight or a guilty pleasure; either way, it’s divine.
The last part is one of the game’s most clever hooks. Gifts give players a reason to go back into levels and use their gun cards a bit more freely to track down every hidden present. Once found, those can be given to the game’s NPCs to unlock excellent bonus levels, as well as story-moving dialogue. Yes, on top of everything, Neon White also functions as a pretty good dating simulator.
While it’s not quite the master tradesman that something like Hades is, Neon White does everything it sets out to do quite well. There was rarely a point where I felt like I was slogging through dull lore to get back to the action or vice versa. Every piece fits into one another to create a successful hybrid game glued together with stylish visuals and a soundtrack full of bops. It has the chaotic energy, but still cohesive vision of a good Suda51 game — my head keeps going back to Killer7 when I try to find the right spiritual touchstone.
Image used with permission by copyright holder While there might be bits and pieces of other games in here, Neon White is the kind of wholly unique experience that makes the modern gaming scene so exciting. It deconstructs genre staples and narrative clichés, reassembling them into its own funhouse mirror image. Call it a heavenly delight or a guilty pleasure; either way, it’s divine.
Our take Neon White takes some big swings with its card-shooter/platformer premise and fortunately doesn’t miss. Its execution-heavy action is wildly fast and fun, pushing players to complete complex demon-slaying gauntlets that pepper in exciting twists through the game’s last moments. Levels can feel disappointingly linear and longer stages can drag the momentum down, but the action is largely satisfying from start to finish. That would be enough to make this a worthwhile package, but its surprisingly thoughtful commentary on spirituality and strong late-game hooks make this a game worthy of divine judgment.
Is there a better alternative? Hades has a similar genre-bending approach, though there’s nothing out there that’s quite like Neon White.
 Though publisher Devolver Digital has plenty of great execution-based action games of similar quality. Take your pick.
How long will it last? The story can be completed in roughly 12 hours, but there’s a ton to chase after the credits roll. Unlockable gifts, time chases, bonus levels, and more turn this into a robust package all around.
Should you buy it? Yes.
Neon White is a cool and confident action game with an odd action hook that’s fast and fantastic in equal measure.
Neon White was reviewed using a PC copy primarily tested on Steam Deck.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked Indie World Showcase November 2023: How to watch and what to expect All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder All secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Super Mario Bros. Wonder is perhaps the Mario franchise's most colorful and unusual game to date, featuring all manner of dream-like themes and near-endless amounts of creativity. Like any new Mario game, though, it also comes packing some brand-new power-ups alongside a handful of returning classics that everyone knows and loves. All of the power-ups have their unique uses that can help you fend off baddies, reach new areas, or simply create hilarious hijinks, but some are notably more exciting than others.
Here are all of the Super Mario Bros. Wonder power-ups ranked. They'll all come in handy when you're tracking down all of the badges, medals, and Special World entrances.
All Super Mario Bros. Wonder power-ups, ranked 6. Super Mushroom Gaming Each major gaming platform has its own subscription service, giving players added bonuses such as access to certain games and other perks for a monthly fee. Xbox has Game Pass, PlayStation has PlayStation Plus, and Nintendo Switch offers the Nintendo Switch Online program.
While Nintendo's service isn't on the same level as the other two across PlayStation and Xbox, it does give subscribers access to some of the best retro games of all time -- and even more if you have the Expansion Pack upgrade, which includes N64, Sega Genesis, and Game Boy Advance games, along with DLC packs for certain Switch titles. Included with the basic version of the Nintendo Switch Online subscription is the ability to play online, plus access to NES and SNES games.
Gaming It was a good morning for both Mario and RPG fans. Today's Nintendo Direct not only showed more of the new Super Mario RPG remake, but also unveiled a new port of Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door that's coming next year to the Nintendo Switch.
Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door - Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
