Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming News 15 Nintendo Switch games you should play in handheld mode By Gabe Gurwin and Steven Petite Close The Nintendo Switch offers a great traditional gaming experience when in its dock, particularly when using a Pro Controller , but just because you’re playing on the television doesn’t necessarily mean you’re getting the most out of your game. From motion controls to the nifty touchscreen, you can often get more out of this system when it’s in your hands. We think these games are especially conducive to play in handheld mode, whether you’re sitting on your couch or playing it while traveling.
Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle The World Ends With You: Final Remix Into the Breach Stardew Valley Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker Pokémon: Let’s Go! Moonlighter Splatoon 2 L.A. Noire Mario Kart 8 Deluxe Arms Poly Bridge Oxenfree Rayman Legends: Definitive Edition Darkest Dungeon Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle Image used with permission by copyright holder You won’t be missing out on any touchscreen features or major performance enhancements if you choose to play Ubisoft’s strategy game Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle on your television instead of in handheld mode, but the game’s digestible battles are practically made for on-the-go play.
Mario + Rabbid ‘s puzzle-esque scenarios are the perfect length for a bus ride, or whenever you have a few minutes of downtime. Plus, its turn-based, so you can easily pause the game and stick your Switch in your pocket if you have to stop playing in a hurry.
Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond This new retro console will let you play Nintendo 64 games in 4K Read our full Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle review The World Ends With You: Final Remix Image used with permission by copyright holder An enhanced port of the Nintendo DS cult classic, The World Ends With You: Final Remix feels right at home on Nintendo Switch. When played in handheld mode, that is. The action role-playing game set in Toyko’s Shibuya shopping district was originally designed to be played almost solely with touchscreen controls. Those controls translate well to the Switch’s screen.
In docked mode, however, you must use motion controls, which don’t work nearly as well. The World Ends With You is a wonderful game with tons of style points, but you should play it entirely in handheld mode.
Into the Breach Image used with permission by copyright holder A bite-sized turn-based strategy game from the makers of FTL: Faster Than Light , Into the Breach sets up perfectly for handheld mode on Switch. The small grid-based boards and short levels, lasting just a few minutes on average, make it an excellent pick-up-and-play option for strategy enthusiasts.
Into the Breach has a simplistic hook, featuring a mix of tower defense and standard player vs. CPU combat confined within a handful of turns each level. Despite, or perhaps because of, the restraints, it winds up as one of the deepest strategy games in recent memory.
Read our full Into the Breach review Stardew Valley Image used with permission by copyright holder Stardew Valley , the relaxing small town simulator from the mind of Eric Barone, has charming throwback visuals that nod to the 16-bit era. Retro-looking games naturally set up well for handheld play, but its the gameplay loop that makes Stardew Valley an ideal handheld option.
From tending to your farm to conversing with fellow townspeople to simply taking in the sights, Stardew Valley has a methodically relaxing pace. It’s the type of game you can play in between commercials or right before bed and still feel like you made progress. In fact, you’ll want to check in on your town every day. What better way to do that than with the convenience of handheld mode? Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker Image used with permission by copyright holder Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker , Toad’s first starring role, originally launched on Wii U before gaining new life on Switch. The puzzle platformer is filled with multi-tier levels, the full scope of which you can see by rotating the camera. This unique spin on the Mario platformer genre is engaging for both kids and adults.
It’s particularly great in handheld mode, simply due to the level layout that asks you to take close looks around for secrets. The length of each level, a matter of minutes, also sets up well for handheld mode.
Pokémon: Let’s Go! Image used with permission by copyright holder Pokémon: Let’s Go , the delightful reimagining of Pokémon Yellow , is another scenario where the controls work way better in handheld mode than in docked mode. In handheld mode, it plays like a traditional handheld Pokémon game, with the exception of catching Pokémon. Adopting a Pokémon Go style approach, you simply lob Poké Balls at your target by moving the analog stick and pressing a button.
In docked mode, however, you have to use single Joy-Con (or the Poké Ball Plus peripheral) to catch Pokémon using motion controls. Besides the fact that waving your arm gets old quickly, the fact that you can’t use a traditional control scheme (no Pro controller or two Joy-Con support) makes it feel less like the Pokémon games we’ve known and loved for more than two decades.
Let’s Go is an excellent Pokémon game that captures both the nostalgia of the first set of games and moves the series forward. If you want the best, most Pokémon-like experience, handheld mode is the way to go.
Read our full Pokémon: Let’s Go review Moonlighter Image used with permission by copyright holder In Moonlighter , you work as a shopkeeper by day, selling your wares to villagers and travelers. By night, you head to the dangerous dungeons north of town to scavenge for items to replenish your stock. The randomly generated dungeons feel similar to those seen in The Binding of Isaac , while the shopkeeping sections and town-life elements adopt the pace of serene sims like the aforementioned Stardew Valley.
 It’s an addictive blend of action gameplay and town simulation. The unique cartoon visuals really pop on the Switch’s screen, and the day/night cycle sets up great for short gaming sessions.
Splatoon 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder If you play Splatoon 2 with motion controls off, you will find a fairly comparable experience in handheld and docked modes. But if you like to fine-tune your shots, it’s much easier to do so when you’re holding the screen instead of a controller.
The ability to do this consistently will lead to better results in multiplayer matches, and you might even help your Salmon Run pals set a new record — just make sure you still have access to Wi-Fi when you’re playing, or you’ll be stuck playing the single-player campaign.
Read our full Splatoon 2 review L.A. Noire Image used with permission by copyright holder Playing L.A. Noire with your Switch docked emphasizes how dated the game feels. The 2011 procedural detective game’s control scheme can feel stiff, and navigating the menus with the analog sticks is an absolute chore.
In handheld mode, however, you can tap selections in your notebook with your finger to quickly bring them up, and you can even manipulate objects in the environment with the touchscreen during investigations. Though you can also use the motion function in the Joy-Con controllers to use these features this with the Switch docked, it’s not the best way to play the game.
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe Image used with permission by copyright holder Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is the ultimate party game, but with Nintendo Switch, you can take the party with you wherever you go. Because an entire grand prix can be completed in less than 30 minutes, it’s the perfect game to play while you’re on the train or bus. It feels great in handheld mode because of the Joy-Cons’ HD Rumble, and the action is silky-smooth.
The single horizontal Joy-Con control scheme allows two players to face off without the need for an extra controller, and if you flip up the Switch’s kickstand or use the iBolt headrest mount , you can split-screen race always anywhere.
Read our full Mario Kart 8 Deluxe review Arms Image used with permission by copyright holder We know this one sounds strange, but Arms is more fun in portable mode. The Nintendo Switch’s motion controls are certainly a fun novelty and allow for a few tricks in multiplayer, but holding the Switch in your hands and controlling fighters with the triggers just allows for more precise movements.
The sticks still allow you to curve your shots and reach distant targets, and the button layout is more comfortable than the recommended Joy-Con setup. With the screen directly in front of you, you also have an easier time gauging the distance between your fighter and your opponent.
Read our full Arms review Poly Bridge Image used with permission by copyright holder Construction games aren’t typically designed with consoles in mind, as the fine adjustments you have to make aren’t very easy to make on controllers. The bridge-constructing game Poly Bridge is no different, as it was originally released for PC and smartphones. With the Switch’s touchscreen, you’re able to design your bridges using your fingers, but on the television, this is done using the Joy-Con as a pointing tool.
 If you want to play the game on a larger display, the PC is a better option.
Oxenfree Image used with permission by copyright holder Oxenfree is an adventure game that plays reasonably well on televisions, but with the Switch’s touchscreen, you have the ability to click on objects and dialogue options rather than move the sticks to select them. Given the emphasis the game puts on the conversations between its characters, it makes for a more convenient experience, and its relatively short length means that you can make real progress even if you’re only playing it for a few minutes at a time.
Rayman Legends: Definitive Edition Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Rayman Legends began its life as a Wii U exclusive, and its touch-enabled puzzle sections with the character Murfy make this especially evident. When played with a traditional control scheme, these areas are boring at best and frustrating at worst, but with the Switch’s touchscreen , you can manipulate the environment with the swipe of a finger before returning to standard platforming action. The game’s simple combat and navigation controls are also perfect for the Joy-Con controllers, and you won’t really benefit from using a Pro Controller, instead.
Darkest Dungeon Image used with permission by copyright holder As with Poly Bridge , Darkest Dungeon was initially designed for the PC’s mouse and keyboard more than a traditional controller. On the Switch version, developer Red Hook Studios takes advantage of the console’s touchscreen to simplify sorting through the game’s various menus.
It is technically playable using the Joy-Cons buttons or Pro Controller, but the controls are fairly clunky. If you plan to play Darkest Dungeon on the Switch, you want to use the touchscreen. With turn-based mechanics in its combat, it’s also a good game to play on a commute.
Editors' Recommendations One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month The best Switch games for 2023 When does Hogwarts Legacy come out on Nintendo Switch? The best games on Nintendo Switch Online Mario vs. Donkey Kong is getting a Nintendo Switch remake in February Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Is your backlog of video games running low? Did you just grab a new PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X or Nintendo Switch and need to build up your library? Video game deals are the cheapest way to do it. Below we've pulled the best video game deals available for all three current generation consoles. These are all fantastic games, by the way. Everything listed below appears on our list of the best PS5 games, best Xbox Series X games, or best Nintendo Switch games. You'll find deals on some surprisingly popular titles, too.
Best PS5 game deals Diablo IV -- $63, was $70 Gaming Picking a console is a big decision. They're not cheap, so unless gaming is your passion, you probably don't want to spend the cash to grab all three of the major ones. That's why we've collected the best prices on every version of the three major consoles. Below you'll find Xbox Series S and X deals, PlayStation 5 deals, and Nintendo Switch deals (on all the various versions). We've listed the best prices at the major retailers, and any deals we could find among them. Once you've grabbed your console, check out the best video games deals to go along with them.
Xbox Series S deals -- starting at $280 The Xbox Series S is the less powerful but cheaper option out of the newest generation Xbox line. When comparing the Xbox Series S versus the Xbox Series X, the Series S takes a hit in all the component categories. That means it's not quite as fast. But if you're not hung up on getting the optimal performance out of your system, you'll actually notice very few differences. The two biggest ones are the Series S's inability to play in 8K, and its lack of a disc drive. Most people don't even have 8K TVs, so that shouldn't be an issue. If you're alright with downloading all of your games straight to the console's memory (and you have a separate DVD or Blu-Ray player), the Series S will work fine. It's quite a bit smaller anyway, and easier to fit on a shelf.
Gaming The Nintendo Switch is one of the most popular gaming consoles. This can sometimes make it difficult to find Nintendo Switch deals, as such popular pieces of tech don’t often see discounts. But that doesn’t mean there aren’t ways to save. There are several discounts taking place on several different Nintendo Switch models, and there’s even some savings to be had on a few of the best Nintendo Switch games. Whether you’re looking for a Switch console or some games for your current one, we’ve rounded up all of the best Nintendo Switch deals you can shop right now.
Nintendo Switch OLED (refurbished) — $300, was $350 The Nintendo Switch OLED is a slight upgrade over the original Nintendo Switch. It comes with a 7-inch OLED screen, which is important if you’re looking to get the best image quality possible out of your console. OLED produces a lifelike image with vivid colors and deep contrast, and it could even make the switch a better experience for playing handheld if you don’t also have an OLED TV. This Nintendo Switch OLED model comes refurbished and certified by Geek Squad, which means you can purchase knowing you’re getting a Switch OLED that’s been checked to work properly.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
