Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Nintendo Switch Sports review: Some things never get old By Giovanni Colantonio Close $49.99 Badminton is king Precise motion controls Perfect for multiplayer Long-term potential Thin selection at launch Soccer is a dud Unrewarding solo play There’s no better feeling than bowling a strike, both in real life and Nintendo Switch Sports.
 It’s a small, but satisfying athletic accomplishment that doesn’t require years of training and discipline to pull off. It can almost happen by accident, with physics taking the wheel as soon as the bowling ball smashes into the pins. No matter how many times I hit a strike in Nintendo Switch Sports , I always let out a silent fist pump without fail.
If it ain’t broke Mounting complexity Sports as service Our take That’s the lasting power of Nintendo’s now 16 year-old sports series. There’s nothing fundamentally different about bowling in Nintendo Switch Sports and Wii Sports , but there doesn’t have to be. Nintendo’s new package of sports minigames defies the normal expectation about modern games by remaining confident in its instantly gratifying gameplay instead of inventing new hooks to expand the experience. No real-life bowler has ever complained that the sport doesn’t add enough new features year after year, after all (imagine someone arguing that it’s time to add an 11th pin).
One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month The best Switch games for 2023 When does Hogwarts Legacy come out on Nintendo Switch? When Nintendo Switch Sports is focused on reinforcing already intuitive gameplay with more precise motion controls, it’s every bit as addictive as Wii Sports.
 It only loses points when it strives to be more complex than it needs to be.
If it ain’t broke This time around, Nintendo’s anthology of sports games contains six activities at launch: Bowling, tennis, badminton, chambara, volleyball, and soccer. There are more highlights than duds in the package, and there’s a trend between the hits. Most of the best minigames (with one exception) require no explanation.
Every time I swing, I’m surprised that the ball always goes exactly where I intended.
Badminton, the collection’s crown jewel, is the perfect example of that. It’s a more pingpong-like variation of tennis that has two players volleying back and forth on a small court. There’s no tutorial; if you know how to swing a racquet, you know how to swing a Joy-con. Badminton matches are a fast and surprisingly intense test of reflexes and timing that I’m confident I could take to a family party and pull some smiles out of kids and adults alike.
That’s perhaps part of the reason why the returning classics from the original Wii Sports remain as enjoyable as ever here. Bowling has barely changed, with players rolling a 10 frame game by lining up shots and swinging their arm as if it were actually holding a ball. It never gets old. I’ve spent hours on end just trying to outdo my best record and I’m still not tired of it (though my right arm certainly is). There’s a special challenge mode, which puts obstacles in the lane, to add some variety, but I’ve found that I’m still perfectly happy just playing normal rounds.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Tennis is similarly repeatable, even though badminton has taken its throne. It’s also the sport that best highlights how precise Nintendo’s motion controls have become. Every time I swing, I’m surprised that the ball always goes exactly where I intended. There’s rarely a moment where my sportsmate (the game’s Mii 2.0 avatars) does something I don’t expect. In the past, I had to buy a clunky Wiimote add-on to reach that level of precision. A Joy-Con is far lighter and more accurate by comparison.
Nintendo Switch Sports ’ best strength is that it removes as much friction from the experience as possible. I barely have to think about the controller in my hand when playing. It’s just me versus the pins.
Mounting complexity While its simple pleasures are easy wins, Nintendo Switch Sports struggles when it tries to bring more depth to its activities. Volleyball, for instance, requires several motions. Players need to bump, jump, block, set, and spike the ball. Perhaps anticipating that it could be confusing to remember it all, the game flashes commands on screen to tell players what actions to perform. It feels less like playing volleyball and more like Simon Says.
Soccer is where the struggle to create complexity stands out the most. Players participate in a full-fledged, three-minute soccer game that has them running around a large field, spending stamina to run and kicking the ball with several techniques. It’s the only game where players need to manually move while playing (characters automatically run to the ball in sports like tennis), making it the most in-depth game in the series so far.
It’s no surprise that soccer ends up getting outclassed by its more stripped-down variant.
It’s not very elegant. I spend matches slowly running across the open field, barely ever getting my foot on the ball. Most matches I play go to overtime, with no team managing to score a single point. Part of the issue is that swinging a remote to kick goes against the simple brilliance of the series, where motion controls mimic real actions one to one. It’s no surprise that soccer ends up getting outclassed by its more stripped-down variant, a fun shootout mode where players can use a leg strap attachment to physically kick. Leg strap support will be added to the standard soccer mode this year, but I doubt I’ll go back to it once Mario Strikers: Battle League hits Switch this summer — whereas I’ll gladly play Switch Sports tennis over Mario Tennis Aces anytime.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Adding more moving parts to a sport isn’t an inherently flawed idea, though. Chambara is one of the game’s more tutorial-loaded activities, and also one of its clearest standouts. The sword fighting mode has players blocking and slashing by turning the Joy-con diagonally, vertically, and horizontally. It’s a surprisingly strategic battle that’s especially fun with a friend you can smack talk.
Chambara works because the core motions are easy to grasp. I turn my Joy-con to the side and my character’s sword turns with it. Simple. That’s the appeal of the Nintendo Sports series. I want to roll a bocce ball, swing a cricket bat, or push discs down a shuffleboard (all free ideas, Nintendo). Anything more than that feels like it betrays the series secret weapon: Its low barrier for entry.
Sports as service The most alluring aspect of Nintendo Switch Sports is that Nintendo has already committed to long-term support. Free updates later this year will add golf to the game, expanding the roster of activities with another surefire hit. That’s important, because with six games at launch (two of which aren’t too exciting), the game selection is half that of Wii Sports Resort.
 The promise of more sports and free updates means that the game will be a bit more of an ongoing service — and not one you need to pay $2 a day to use.
It’s the kind of game that’ll be an essential part of any Switch owner’s collection in the back half of its life.
Full online play is another crucial, even if expected, addition here, and the game pushes players to buy into that. Gear, like clothing for sportsmates, can only be unlocked via online play. The game cycles in sets of gear that’ll only be available for a few weeks at a time, pushing players to rank up and unlock every piece before they vanish. I appreciate that there’s a light reward loop, but it does make solo and local multiplayer less enticing as neither awards prizes (though an online Trial Mode lets players unlock two items per week for playing against CPUs). I’m hoping that gets changed in an update down the line, as I imagine I’ll be playing local with friends more than online (though for what it’s worth, the online experience seems more stable than your typical Nintendo game at the moment).
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nintendo Switch Sports is ultimately most valuable as a party game , just as Wii Sports was 16 years ago. I enjoy playing solo (I’ll chase that perfect bowling game until I die), but the most fun I’ve had with it has routinely been with other people. Badminton is one of the best two-player experiences on the entire system for my money and nothing beats a casual bowling session in a room full of friends. It’s the kind of game that’ll be an essential part of any Switch owner’s collection in the back half of its life.
Though it does call the game’s release strategy into question. Whereas Wii Sports was a free pack-in with Switch consoles, Nintendo Switch Sports is a $40 release ($50 to get a physical copy with a leg strap). I’m skeptical that players will be willing to shell out that much for a game that’s not notably different from its predecessor on paper. If Nintendo packages it with Switch models this holiday season, I’m convinced it’ll be a home run — that is, as long as it adds baseball to the sports lineup.
Our take Nintendo Switch Sports is exactly what it needs to be. It’s an intuitive package of Wii-era sports minigames with more precise motion controls and full online integration. Addictive activities like bowling and badminton make it one of the Switch’s best multiplayer party games, though overly complicated minigames like soccer miss the simple appeal of the series. With long-term support planned, I’m hopeful that Nintendo can build up the currently thin offering and turn it into the kind of console staple that any Switch owner needs to have installed.
Is there a better alternative? If you want a more dedicated, in-depth sports game with motion controls, Mario Golf: Super Rush and Mario Tennis Aces may be more your speed.
How long will it last? Nintendo plans on supporting Switch Sports through the end of 2022, with plans to add golf and leg strap support for soccer. Add in online play and you could be reasonably satisfied into next year.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you loved Wii Sports , there’s no reason you wouldn’t love this too. Though you’ll get more out of it as a multiplayer experience than a solo one.
Nintendo Switch Sports was tested on a Switch OLED docked to a TCL 6-Series RC35.
Editors' Recommendations The best Switch controllers for 2023 Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Animal Crossing is the next Nintendo franchise to get the Lego treatment The best games on Nintendo Switch Online Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming It was a good morning for both Mario and RPG fans. Today's Nintendo Direct not only showed more of the new Super Mario RPG remake, but also unveiled a new port of Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door that's coming next year to the Nintendo Switch.
Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door - Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 Gaming Mario vs. Donkey Kong was announced during today's Nintendo Direct. Launching on February 16, this new title is the first entry in the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series to hit the Nintendo Switch and the latest in the series since its last entry in 2016.
Mario vs. Donkey Kong - Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 Gaming Nintendo will hold a full-fledged Nintendo Direct presentation this September, just as it has during this month for the past several years. Whether or not this would happen was in question because of the June Direct and August's Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct, but now that's no longer a debate. The next Nintendo Direct will take place on September 14 and give us insights on games coming to the Nintendo Switch throughout the rest of the year. It will air live, so we've outlined where and how people can watch the September 2023 Nintendo Direct, as well as what people should expect from it.
When is the September 2023 Nintendo Direct The September 2023 Nintendo Direct starts at 7 a.m. PT on September 14, so you may need to get up early in the morning for it. Nintendo also confirmed that the presentation will last about 40 minutes, so be prepared to tune in for some time.
How to watch the September 2023 Nintendo Direct Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 - Nintendo Switch Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
