Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Pokémon Legends: Arceus review: Bidoof of the Wild By Giovanni Colantonio Close $60.00 Research is rewarding Streamlined catching Charming sidequests Excellent combat tweaks Tasks can be tedious Weak visuals Biomes lack variety For the past seven years, every new Pokémon game has felt like a good idea scribbled onto a napkin. Each new release puts a genuinely clever spin on the franchise, but none have felt like a full painting.
Pokémon Legends: Arceus isn’t that final version either, but rather a museum collecting all the best doodles in one place.
A professor’s game Super effective Slow evolution Our take In the franchise’s biggest departure to date, developer Game Freak has thrown some of the series’ fundamentals out the window. There are no gyms, no elite four, and no competitive component. While it draws inspiration from more contemporary RPG series like Monster Hunter , it’s more focused on organizing disparate Pokémon innovations from the 2010s in one place.
The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom DLC is not happening, says Nintendo Detective Pikachu Returns: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Pokémon Sleep is here and it features some surprising microtransactions Pokémon Legends: Arceus makes bold changes to the tried-and-true formula, successfully kicking off Pokémon’s long-needed reinvention. But the series’ technical limits hang around its neck like an everstone , preventing it from fully evolving.
A professor’s game Bitten by the Breath of the Wild bug , Pokémon Legends: Arceus is an open-world reimagining of the monster-collecting series. While there is catching and battling, the key verb is “researching.” Players are dropped into an ancient version of the Sinnoh region (called Hisui) and are tasked with creating the first Pokédex.
The emphasis on research leads to some ingenious gameplay hooks. Observing Pokémon behavior nets players research points, which help build out a full Pokédex entry for the creature. Players get points by, say, catching a Pokémon , using type-effective moves against it in battle, feeding it, etc. It applies the idea of mobile-like daily challenges to each creature, letting players progress for doing virtually anything. It’s satisfying to check off boxes and there are quite literally thousands here.
Image used with permission by copyright holder At times, Pokémon Legends: Arceus is a dream come true. Creatures roam free and can be caught by simply tossing a ball at one without even initiating a battle, an improvement on Pokémon Let’s Go ’s streamlined catching.
 Wild creatures can attack players, forcing them to dodge out of the way. Players can ride creatures like Wyrdeer, jump in the ocean, and seamlessly switch to sailing around on a Basculegion. Whenever I found myself locked in the gameplay loop, it really felt like the seemingly impossible dream game I always imagined as a kid.
Other times, it can be a bit tedious. Creature studying became a grind whenever I needed to do it to up my star rank (a sort of world progress indicator) and advance the story. It’s most reminiscent of Pokémon Go , which unconvincingly gamifies repetition.
Arceus handles that idea much better, but it can wear thin once you’ve caught your eighth Shinx.
In its best moments, Pokémon Legends: Arceus is a cozy game about humans learning to coexist with the unpredictable creatures around them.
In terms of its scripted content, the game is hit-and-miss. The main story never feels like it fully takes advantage of its feudal setting; it just feels like your average Pokémon world, minus the extravagant cities. Sidequests are more entertaining, though. These micro tales explore Pokémon behavior in gleeful ways. One mission has players capturing a Zubat to help a woman figure out how they fly in the dark so easily. Another has players on the hunt for a stray Drifloon that keeps playing with the village’s children.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In its best moments, Pokémon Legends: Arceus is a cozy game about humans learning to coexist with the unpredictable creatures around them. For those who never cared about the competitive side of the series, it’s a warm, fuzzy experience that rewards players who identify more with professors than trainers.
Super effective While fighting isn’t the main emphasis, it’s still a core part of the game. While it retains the series’ turn-based battles, they’ve been completely retooled here — and that’s for the best. The biggest difference is that Pokémon now have initiative in battle, so a Pokémon’s speed stat is essential. Rather than both creatures trading moves back and forth, a turn order determines when each acts. That means that a quick monster could get two attacks in before its opponent gets one.
To pair with that idea, Arceus introduces a new hitch to moves. When a Pokémon “masters” a move, it can choose to execute it in a strong or agile style, which both use more powerpoints. Strong style hits harder, but usually means it’ll give the opponent an extra move. Agile style does the opposite, trading power for extra moves. Those changes make battles even more strategic and tense, as players need to balance their damage output and attack frequency.
Image used with permission by copyright holder A creature’s move set can be switched around at any time. Anytime a move is learned, either through leveling up or buying new ones, it’s added to a list. Players don’t need to forget a move to set a new one, which mercifully removes one of the series’ most convoluted features.
Combat gets tough, which is great news for players who have been begging for the series to challenge them.
 But it’s also been streamlined in all the right ways. On-screen symbols better communicate when a Pokémon‘s stats are altered, there’s a tab in battle that explains every active buff or debuff, and players can change Pokémon on the fly without opening a menu. Every single quality of life improvement is stellar and should come to the main series.
I have no doubt that many of the mechanics here will come to the next mainline Pokémon game based on how fans receive them here.
But I sometimes felt like I was toying around in a design proving ground. That’s especially apparent in noble Pokémon battles, which iterate on Sun and Moon ’s totem battles.
 Here, players face a powerful monster by repeatedly tossing balms at it, sending out Pokémon to weaken it, and dodging attacks.
While they’re an excellent change of pace, there’s only a handful of them throughout the adventure, and only the last one or two fights really find the concept’s footing. In the first noble fight against Kleavor, I didn’t even send out a single Pokémon to defend me. I just pressed one button over and over to throw balms — not exactly a Monster Hunter-quality fight.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Few of the ideas here, both in combat and outside of it, feel like the final draft. Instead, Arceus is a safe space for Game Freak to test new ideas without freaking longtime players out. I have no doubt that many of the mechanics here will come to the next mainline Pokémon game based on how fans receive them here. It just leaves this game feeling like a solid opening act.
Slow evolution When it comes to the tech side, I won’t mince words: Pokémon Legends: Arceus is an ugly game. I say that as someone who openly mocked people who complained about Sword and Shield ’s visuals. While I felt that the unambitious art style suited that game well enough, it’s less of a fit for an open-world game that’s built around inspiring awe.
Landscape textures jarringly shift and load while players move through the world. Sometimes, distant Pokémon will move in a two-frame animation. Character clothing is muddy when shown close-up, with more jagged lines than a GameCube game. The “pop-in” issue from Sword and Shield is back too and much more frustrating considering that the fun of an open-world game is seeing something off in the distance and traveling to it.
I won’t mince words: Pokémon Legends: Arceus is an ugly game.
The open-world design itself isn’t inspired either. Rather than tossing players into one giant world, it breaks it off into five distinct biomes. Each one has a specific motif, which means you don’t get a lot of visual diversity. When you’re in the grassy zone, it’s just fields and trees for miles with little variety. Some other areas frankly look the same, but with slightly different textures or lighting. That’s a shame coming off Sword and Shield ’s surprisingly well-designed Isle of Armor DLC , which features an intricate, varied island.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There aren’t many environmental secrets to uncover, which made Breath of the Wild ’s Hyrule so satisfying. Instead, it’s a big empty space built to contain Pokémon — one that feels like a testing prototype at times.
While I’ve really enjoyed my time with the game, it’s a little frustrating, too. It highlights just how glacially the franchise implements change. For the past seven years, every single Pokémon game (mainline and spinoff alike) has experimented with genuinely neat ideas, but all stop short of presenting the best version of it. I’m always left anticipating a follow-up that’ll really pull it together.
With Pokémon Legends: Arceus , I’m in the exact same spot. I’m already imagining how the next Pokémon game can integrate all these new mechanics and make the game of my dreams a reality. But that’s a few years off, and the franchise already feels like it’s consistently five years behind.
Arceus is a step in the right direction, but it still has a lot of catching up to do.
Our take Pokémon Legends: Arceus takes a lot of experimental swings — and many of them are successful. The pivot to research-driven gameplay does a better job at rewarding players for every little thing they do. The quality of life changes it brings to the table are excellent across the board and feel like they’ll become standard in the series going forward. It’s just held back by some first draft design ideas and weak visuals that can’t support the project’s ambitions. Even with its issues, it’s still left me hopeful that the series is finally ready to evolve.
Is there a better alternative? For more traditional fans, grab Pokémon Sword and Shield and its stealthily good DLCs. Those games contain some of the same open-world experiments along with the normal series hooks.
How long will it last? I completed the main story in 15 hours after completing roughly 50% of the side-quests. Between researching, completing all quests, and finding collectibles, I imagine it’ll keep dedicated fans occupied for dozens of hours total.
Should you buy it? Yes. While it has its warts, Pokémon Legends: Arceus is an intriguing and much-needed reset for the aging series. It’s a cozy experience that’s a perfect match for the Nintendo Switch.
Pokémon Legends: Arceus was tested on a Nintendo Switch OLED in handheld mode and on a TCL 6-Series R635 when docked.
Editors' Recommendations Nintendo’s next console may feature DLSS and ray-tracing support Nintendo Switch deals: Don’t pay full price! Pokémon Stadium 2 and Trading Card Game are now on Switch with online play The best Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom mods Pokémon Scarlet and Violet: shiny hunting guide Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Entertainment The Legend of Zelda franchise has left fans wanting to see Link and the titular princess go on an adventure on the big screen. This desire has only been intensified by the popular release of The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom and debunked rumors that Illumination Entertainment was making an animated adaptation.
It may be a long time before Nintendo makes a Zelda film, but for those who enjoyed their latest gaming masterpiece, these five movies should give audiences a similar cinematic experience.
Laputa: Castle in the Sky (1986) Gaming The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild introduced many survival elements into the Zelda formula, and The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom only expands on those concepts. Things like cooking and crafting return in new-and-improved forms, but what hasn't changed much is the need to gather tons and tons of resources. From food to materials, weapons, and ores, Link's pockets will quickly become jam-packed with these materials. Zonite is a new form of resource that is vital for anyone who is enjoying the new Ultrahand ability and creating all types of wacky vehicles and contraptions. If you're hitting the limit on your creations due to a lack of Zonite, here are the best places to farm it in Tears of the Kingdom.
What is Zonite? Zonite is tied to the ancient Zonai and their technology, which you will be using to build various machines in Tears of the Kingdom. Zonite itself is a material you can collect that, when you have enough, can be used with a Forge to make one of two things: Zonite Charges or Crystallized Charges. Zonite Charges are used to immediately refill any Energy Cell's power, while Crystallized Charges expand those Energy Cells' maximum capacity.
Best places to find Zonite The best places to find Zonite, like any raw material, are down in the Depths. Here are a few hotspots we've found to have a good supply for you to plunder.
Great Abandoned Central Mine The Great Abandoned Central Mine is an easy spot to recommend for farming Zonite since it is quite easy to access. You can find it at coordinates -0728, -1860, -0503. Simply drop inside with a hammer or explosives and break the deposits to gather up the Zonite.
Lindor Canyon Mine If you've drained the Central Mine clean, Lindor Canyon Mine is another spot rich in Zonite. You can find it at the coordinates -2004, 1310, -0715.
Enemies in the Depths If you're not as much into mining, another method for getting Zonite is to collect it from enemies in the Depths. While not every enemy drops this material, plenty do, so fighting off these tougher enemies can be worth your time. Korok Grove, found at 006, 2521, -0623, has two encampments to raid if you're feeling up to the challenge.
Gaming Two weeks after its release, Nintendo has patched out one of the most helpful exploits in The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom: a popular item duplication glitch.
When Tears of the Kingdom launched on May 12, it felt surprisingly polished considering how complex its open world and systems like Fuse and Ultrahand are. That said, it wasn't entirely free of bugs. Some of these glitches prevented progression, including one that was solved in the Ver. 1.1.1 update, but others were much more helpful, like item duplication. As Digital Trends' guide on the exploit details, players could duplicate items by fusing materials with arrows and then dropping two identical bows within a short timeframe.
According to players, Tears of the Kingdom update Ver. 1.1.2, which was released on May 25, removes this item duplication glitch from the game. Interestingly, this specific exploit isn't detailed in the patch notes, which simply say that "several issues have been addressed to improve the gameplay experience," among other audio and quest fixes.
You can check out the full list of Ver 1.1.2 patch notes below.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
