Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Sea of Stars review: a retro-inspired RPG that lives up to classics By Jess Reyes Close $35.00 Funny, but meaty story Engaging combat Diverse settings Moving soundtrack Limited fast travel Easy to get stuck I didn’t expect Sea of Stars to exceed any expectations. It starts with two heroes and their comic relief friend on a quest to fulfill their prophecies … or whatever. Its initial fourth-wall-breaking humor had me prepared for a light meta RPG. Then, after a hell of a mood shift at the halfway point, I realized that the stellar combat and map design was actually attached to an emotionally evocative and competently crafted story.
Surprisingly thought-provoking story Turn-based combat with a twist What a wonderful, confusing world Zale and Valere are Solstice Warriors, those born on a solstice and trained in the art of Eclipse Magic. They live in a world tormented by the sorcerer Fleshmancer’s creations, especially Dwellers, the most powerful of them all. After years of training, Zale and Valere set out on a mission to quell what’s supposedly the last Dweller. However, their story ends up being much more than that as they explore new territories, foes, and a prophecy that they didn’t know extended beyond stars. It’s a gripping interstellar journey that I’m glad I stuck with.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is being review-bombed on Steam as a ‘total crap’ PC port Sea of Solitude, a haunting indie tackling loneliness, gets summer release date Sabotage Studios blends aspects from Super Mario RPG , Illusion of Gaia, and Chrono Trigger to create Sea of Stars , its largest RPG yet. It incorporates combat quirks like timed hits and dual attacks that force you to pay attention way after you’ve selected a move, and keeps encounters exciting with the diverse enemies throughout the colorful, pixelated landscapes. All that, plus respectable storytelling, make it the best indie RPG that I’ve played this year.
Surprisingly thought-provoking story On the surface, Sea of Stars’ story is like every other fantasy RPG starring superpowered teenagers on a quest to save the world. However, it subverts the trope with a change in tone toward the middle of the adventure, even though it keeps the amusing dialogue throughout.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Its story leans into humor as hard as it does into heavier topics like grief and obligation. I expected it to keep the lighthearted tone it had at the start without delving into characters’ emotions as much as it did. In the end, it impressed me with how it had me at the edge of my seat with the expressive portraits, climatic music, and dramatic animations at the tensest moments of the game.
However, you will probably enjoy Sea of Stars a lot more if you suspend disbelief. It still suffers from the goofy or otherwise convenient happenstances found in anime fantasy games.
Sea of Stars isn’t a game I’d play solely for the story. After all, there are many games with good stories. But I’d recommend it based on how the story blends with the rest of the package.
Turn-based combat with a twist Sea of Stars ‘ crown jewel is its combat, from its lively, animated sprites to its “lock” system that encourages players to hit enemies with the right type of weaknesses before they unleash their next move. It features a turn-based combat system where players control up to three party members and freely choose which one acts first in a given turn. Characters can be swapped for a number reasons, including to survive an enemy attack or to counter a type weakness. These rules encouraged me to use all my party members because each one felt like they had a purpose, something that sometimes gets lost in translation when RPGs have too many characters.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Timed hits especially stand out.
Sea of Stars rewards you for pressing buttons at just the right time, allowing you to break two weaknesses at once or deal more damage than you typically would. If I timed my presses just right, I could weaken an enemy twice as much with the right character. Characters can perform combos or “ultimates” after they build up enough energy from landing hits on enemies, so managing those meters added to the challenge. Players can also use a “live mana” ability to infuse characters with magic for breaking weaknesses, even if they’re out of mana.
All this to say that Sea of Stars ’ combat offers a refreshing change of pace. The timed hits make me feel like I’m an active participant in all the battles. If you don’t like something about the combat, you can also adjust it to some extent with a Relic, an item that can increase or lessen the difficulty of your playthrough. I didn’t use many because I wanted to keep the experience as pure as possible, but I did use one that implemented a “signal flare” to more clearly indicate whether or not I timed a hit properly.
What a wonderful, confusing world Sea of Stars is almost as much of a puzzle game as it is an RPG. Each of its map challenges players to utilize environmental tools and powers they’ve collected throughout their playthrough. For example, there’s a wind ability that can move platforms along a set path. It can be used to solve puzzles like powering a raft or pushing platforms into open slots in a wall like a key. Some parts also include minigames like matching tiles based on memory to unlock the next section of a map.
Sabotage keeps the grindiest parts about RPGs out of Sea of Stars.
It feels satisfying to finally finish puzzles after racking my brain over certain solutions for several minutes. However, Sea of Stars could benefit from an objective marker or other way of hinting at what to do next, so that it isn’t as easy to get “stuck.” Those moments where I stalled for an answer were long enough that I dreaded not being able to find my way through a course. It might not be enough to turn me away, but it could easily persuade a less patient player to put down the controller.
For the most part, Sabotage keeps the grindiest parts about RPGs out of Sea of Stars.
 You won’t be forced to engage in combat in random encounters, though monsters will chase after you if they see you in their line of sight. You also jump straight into battle without a transition, so fights feel breezy without loading screens breaking them up. Grinding is obsolete, so I can battle a handful of enemies here and there without running through the map over and over, just to level up for a boss fight.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sea of Stars also does an impressive job of removing backtracking, which is crucial for a game with limited fast travel. Players might come across a hidden shortcut after completing a stage, like a river that carries them back to the entrance, or find that a closed-off part of the map is suddenly accessible because of a new tool or power they’ve earned. These little additions remove as many inconveniences as possible without copying the formula from modern RPGs.
However, better fast travel would have been welcome due to how vast the world is. There are a few options, like living statues that throw (and spit) you between select islands, but revisiting most of the towns becomes a chore. Steering a haunted pirate ship between the locales might be cool, but it’s not exactly convenient.
If you can live with some of its missing pieces, Sea of Stars is an impressive homage to classic RPGs. It does that without simply leaning on retro nostalgia. Instead, it delivers a unique adventure all its own filled with humor, dramatic weight, and a creative battle system that’s entirely its own. It’s both a respectful look back at the past and a bold step forward for indie RPGs.
Sea of Stars was reviewed on a PlayStation 4.
Editors' Recommendations One of 2023’s most anticipated RPGs is coming to PS Plus on day one Star Wars Jedi: Survivor release date pops up on Steam ahead of Game Awards Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
