Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Splatoon 3 review: the antidote to your modern multiplayer woes By Giovanni Colantonio Close $59.99 Strong online play Fun new weapons Lengthy single-player content Salmon Run gets tense Excellent world construction Still no voice chat Tableturf battles feel isolated In a just world, Splatoon 3 would be the biggest multiplayer game of the year. That’s a level of success it would certainly deserve, as Nintendo has created the best iteration of its wildly inventive ink-shooter series yet. It does that without microtransactions, compulsory log-in bonuses, or pop culture references. Not only that, but it’s been packaged into the kind of content-loaded release that feels all but extinct in today’s competitive multiplayer landscape.
Keep it coming Inked up More than menus That’s largely due to free-to-play , a business model that gives developers a lot of slack upfront. Free games like Rumbleverse or MultiVersus don’t need to be fully formed on day one — hell, they don’t need to be good at all. They just need to be fun enough to hook players who were curious or bored enough to download them. A full-priced multiplayer game doesn’t have the same luxury. It needs to be a full experience at launch, not just one fun mode if it’s going to convince players to buy in.
Splatoon 3 ’s best trait is that it does not take the challenge lightly.
The best field upgrades for Modern Warfare 3 Zombies Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: Mercenary Convoy guide Is Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 cross-platform? If you find the current multiplayer landscape nauseating, Splatoon 3 may be the relief you need. It’s not just that it improves on every aspect of the series with much-needed quality of life tweaks and creative new modes. It’s that it cares about how players spend their time between online matches — something that I wish other games would take note of.
Keep it coming Whereas Splatoon 2 felt like a deluxe port of the series’ Wii U debut, Splatoon 3 is a true sequel. There’s less of a feeling that Nintendo is tinkering with a new invention on the fly and working out the kinks as it goes along. Instead, it feels like going from an early access release to a 1.0 launch. This is one of the most confident, full-bodied first-party Switch releases we’ve seen in the console’s lifespan.
The foundation hasn’t changed one bit , but it doesn’t need to. It’s still the same kid-friendly third-person shooter that replaces bullets with ink. Its standard online matches play out like a competitive coloring book, as kids/squids paint the battlefield with their team’s color. As a multiplayer experience, Splatoon’s signature Turf War mode is still second to none. It remains a genius concept that makes it easy for players of all ages to feel like they’re helping the team regardless of skill level. When the test servers set up for the review period went down, I was genuinely sad I’d have to wait a week longer to play more.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Some of its most important changes are simply no-brainer decisions that better set the game up for success. For instance, friends who’ve partied up with one another no longer get shuffled into opposing teams at random (a bizarre Splatoon 2 quirk that still boggles the mind to this day). Though for all its improvements, the team-based game still stubbornly refuses to include an in-game voice chat option, something that feels even more frustrating this time around due to the other positive quality of life bumps.
While that disappoints, little else does when it comes to basic online play. Maps are plentiful at launch, bringing a strong selection of old favorites and new standouts. Connectivity was stable during my tests with none of the lag or stutter you get from something like a Mario sports game. Ranked modes can now be played in a five-game series, which will give competitive players a high-stakes challenge to work towards. And of course, Splatfests return with some exciting new twists that already revved up the series’ social power during a quick weekend demo earlier this summer.
Every little change adds up to create a core online experience that hasn’t left me anxious about what’s next.
There’s also a lot to love when it comes to the game’s new weapons and abilities too. Tools like the Splatana, a windshield wiper that can be wielded like a sword, have already changed the way I play entirely. During a few days of online matches, I found myself switching my weapon way more often (something that can now thankfully be done between matches), as I was simply having a blast experimenting with all the creative new ways I can now unleash an inkstorm on my opponents. I’m especially fond of one super ability that lets me summon an oversized hammer that splats my opponents with slapstick charm.
For those who have only ever played Splatoon casually, these changes may not seem especially world-changing. However, every little change adds up to create a core online experience that hasn’t left me anxious about what’s next. That’s something I couldn’t say for Halo Infinite , MultiVersus , or any multiplayer hit that’s dropped in the past year.
Inked up The competitive multiplayer is only one delicious morsel in the calamari platter this time around.
Splatoon 3 goes to impressive lengths to create a game that could be enjoyed by a solo player who just digs the franchise’s fresh vibes. That starts with its single-player campaign , which is longer and more in-depth than what’s offered in both previous Splatoon games combined. It features over 10 hours of level-based challenges that tutorialize weapons and abilities while providing some genuine challenges.
It’s heartening to see Nintendo transform Splatoon into a convincing single-player experience, rather than treating it as a quick aside. There’s still some room for improvement, though. The campaign places a much larger emphasis on story, as the world is built out with some delightfully weird lore. However, that’s rarely delivered in levels themselves, which are mostly vague obstacle courses that happen to unlock crucial text logs. There’s a great flash of what could be late in the campaign as the story weaves into level design, but it feels like we’re still one game away from Nintendo nailing what a Splatoon campaign looks like.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The game’s Tableturf Battle mode is similarly one step away from perfection, though I love the groundwork that it lays. Here, Turf War is translated into an addictive deck-building minigame where competing players try to ink the most spaces on a grid using cards. While I’ve spent hours mastering its nuances and crafting decks out of its jigsaw puzzle-like cards, there’s not necessarily a strong reason to keep me hooked. It’s a bit of an island in the main game, somewhat disconnected from the rest of the game. There’s a loose sense of progression with a ranking system and NPC challengers to unlock, but I wish there were some clear cosmetics or weapons exclusive to the mode that would better incentivize me to dig in. The fact that it can’t be played live against friends is a misstep too, squandering the minigame’s excellent competitive potential I love both the campaign and Tableturf Battle, to be clear. Each is fun in its own right and not just fluff to pad out the online mode. They’re just emblematic of a common Splatoon issue where it often feels like the best implementation of great ideas is always one game away. We know that when the developers can nail something down, it can be incredibly special. See: Salmon Run.
Nothing feels like an afterthought developed to arbitrarily create value.
The four-player PVE mode introduced in Splatoon 2 returns here as the best version of itself. Previously, it was a surprisingly fun wave defense mode held back by being a timed event that players had to clock in for. That restriction is gone and now players can play it at any time, which is a welcome change that makes it feel more fundamental to the ecosystem. While the basic idea remains unchanged — splat waves of undersea enemies, grab the eggs they drop, dunk as many as you can before time runs out — I’m having an absolute blast this time around. That’s thanks to its new kaiju-like bosses, which can spawn after the final round and trigger a chaotic last stand. It’s a small twist that makes the mode feel more unpredictable and challenging, adding a perfect cherry on top of a mode that just needed one more wipe to shine.
Even if some of the new content leaves room for improvement, I’m impressed by the high quality present in each of Splatoon 3’s various tentacles. Nothing feels like an afterthought developed to arbitrarily create value. I’m convinced someone could buy this game, not play a second of Turf War, and still come out feeling like they got their money’s worth.
More than menus Splatoon 3 comes at the perfect time for me. In recent months, I’ve found myself more and more disillusioned with multiplayer games. It was triggered by MultiVersus , a game that puts little effort into the experience around its IP-filled fights. When I boot up the game, I’m thrown into an assortment of menus from which I jump into a playlist. When a match ends, I’m quickly shuttled back out to more menus that show a bunch of progress bars rising, enticing me to keep playing. I’m one click away from a shop at all times and feel like the fighting was designed as a way to justify cosmetics and a battle pass.
Splatoon 3 is a game that’s easy to take for granted.
Coming off of that experience, Splatoon 3 is wonderfully refreshing. It goes above and beyond to make sure that players are enjoying their stay in Inkopolis every second the game is booted up. Rather than shuffling players into nondescript menus, it places them in a colorful hub that puts every mode in some sort of narrative context. Online battles are triggered in the reception area of a massive building that includes an area to test out weapons, a food vendor to give them perks, and a gachapon machine that pays out random rewards for coins. Tableturf Battle, on the other hand, is tucked away in a corner of the hub, with a fish running it like a seedy back alley secret. There’s a sense that everything is part of a thriving, interconnected world.
When I’m playing Splatoon 3 , I’m not just logging in to knock out a few rounds of Turf War; I’m living out a full day in my squid life. I clock into my day job at Grizzco to play some Salmon Run. Then I window shop at all the vendors, looking for a way to improve my fresh fit. I pass by the Tableturf Battle stall while I’m walking around town and think “Yeah sure, I’ve got time for a round before I head to the lobby.” Rather than chewing through something like the campaign all at once, Splatoon 3 is best enjoyed when fitting all of its pieces into a little routine and picking away at them over time.
Sorry Mark Zuckerberg , but Inkopolis is the only digital space I actually want to live in.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Splatoon 3 is a game that’s easy to take for granted. It’ll be tempting to write it off as another fun multiplayer game in a crowded sea — and one that costs $60 more than some perfectly playable alternatives. But what the Switch exclusive does here should be the norm, not the exception. It’s a fully formed and carefully constructed game out the gate, rather than a good proof of concept that’ll live and die by the developer’s ability to keep up.
 It doesn’t build out its world after the fact through supplementary YouTube videos and it doesn’t need to pepper in references to other beloved media to manufacture entertainment. Everything you need to enjoy the experience is there on day one, not hiding in a development roadmap.
It’s a rare specimen in the multiplayer world — one that even Nintendo itself has struggled to produce this year. Until the day content-rich games like this are driven to extinction, I’ll be savoring every moment I get to spend chilling in the streets of Inkopolis.
Splatoon 3 was tested on a Nintendo Switch OLED in handheld mode and on a TCL 6-Series R635 when docked.
Editors' Recommendations Best Perk-a-Colas in Modern Warfare 3 zombies, ranked How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: tips and tricks for MWZ How to rank up fast in Modern Warfare 3: best ways to farm XP Modern Warfare 3 preload guide: release time, file size, and preorder Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Nintendo confirmed it will widely shut down online services for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U games in April 2024, which will be just over a year after it discontinued the Nintendo eShop on those systems.
This deactivation of most of the online services for those platforms was revealed on X (formerly Twitter) and Nintendo's support site early Wednesday. "In early April 2024, online play and other functionality that uses online communication will end for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U software. This also includes online co-operative play, internet rankings, and data distribution," the message says. "We will announce a specific end date and time at a later date. Please note that if an event occurs that would make it difficult to continue online services for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U software, we may have to discontinue services earlier than planned. We sincerely thank players for using the online services of Nintendo 3DS and Wii U software over a long period of time and apologize for any inconvenience." Essentially, this means that after April 2024, you won't be able to use any online features in things like 3DS Pokémon games or Super Smash Bros. for 3DS and Wii U anymore. Nintendo does say in the Q&A section of its support article that people will still be able to play games offline and redownload updates and games from the Nintendo eShop for the foreseeable future. Pokémon Bank will remain unaffected, so it'll still be possible to transfer Pokémon from Ruby and Sapphire all of the way to Pokémon Home. However, SpotPass support and other online-focused applications like Nintendo Badge Arcade will stop working entirely.
Just like the Wii U and 3DS eShop closure that caused a ruckus earlier this year, this move is a blow to game preservation and will forever harm some games not available anywhere else. While it's understandable that Nintendo might want to move on from these systems' dated online infrastructure, it's still a disappointing move for those of us who spent a lot of time playing games offline and online on these systems.
Gaming Making your character can take a long time if you really want to get all the details right. From your race, class, hairstyle, and more, you have a lot of options to tweak before ever starting your adventure. If you're a little too excited, you might end up slacking off on making your character and assuming you can update it later just so you can get right into the action. If so, or you simply want to change up your look after a couple of hours into this massive game, you'll be at a loss as to how, if you even can, change your appearance in Baldur's Gate 3. You may not fully like the answer, but here's the best you can do in terms of altering your appearance after you've exited the character creator.
Can you change your appearance in Baldur's Gate 3? The answer to this is technically yes, but not in the way you would hope. To get it out of the way, no, there's no way to return to the character creation screen after you've finalized your character. Unlike respeccing your character, there's no NPC, item, or magic mirror anywhere in The Forgotten Realms that will let you change your appearance.
Gaming It's been almost a year since last year's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 was released, which means it's time for the next installment in the annual shooter franchise. This time we're completing the trilogy (again) with Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3. This entry has already generated a lot of hype among fans of the franchise for the inclusion, and return, of some highly requested features such as the mini-map and Zombies mode.
Sticking to the usual late-fall release schedule, Modern Warfare 3 will officially launch on November 10 of this year, but that doesn't mean you have to wait until then to get a taste of what's to come. If you play your cards right, you can get in on the beta to sharpen your skills before the competition.
How to access the Modern Warfare 3 beta Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
