Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury review: A joyful celebration By Giovanni Colantonio Close $60.00 Vibrant levels Creative power-ups Bowser's Fury rocks Tons of content Clumsy movement Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury is positively brimming with joy. From its bright colors to its adorable cats, it’s the perfect game to close out Mario’s big 35th-anniversary bash.
Nearly purrrrrfect Fast and furriest Bang for your buck Our take Originally released on the Wii U in 2013, Super Mario 3D World was a sort of return to form for the series after more experimental mainline Mario outings like Super Mario Sunshine and Super Mario Galaxy.
 With its Nintendo Switch rerelease, the standout platformer now has a chance to spread cheer to a wider audience of Switch owners. Nintendo even brought a plus one to the party, packing in an extra adventure called Bowser’s Fury.
All secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder Super Mario Bros. Wonder is getting a very red Nintendo Switch OLED Super Mario Bros. Wonder: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Taken as a complete package, Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury is a must-own game for Nintendo Switch owners. The original Wii U platformer is still as vibrant and delightful as ever, and the new Bowser’s Fury mode iterates on some of the franchise’s best recent ideas to create a memorable adventure in its own right.
Nearly purrrrrfect Those who never got to experience Super Mario 3D World on Wii U are in for a treat. The game is a traditional 3D Mario title that focuses on clever level design and power-ups above all else. Nintendo quite literally has level design down to a science, and the 12 worlds present in this gameplay like a developer flex. Each stage is overflowing with creative spirit, from a Super Mario Kart -style speed gauntlet to an underground level that mostly plays out in silhouettes.
The bright music, vibrant colors, and general tone all come together to form a game that’s just so happy to entertain without pretension.
The most immediate feature is the cat suit, which turns Mario and his pals into full-fledged felines who can scramble up walls. It’s not just a cute gimmick; the cat suit is one of the franchise’s best power-ups. It’s both an ingenious design consideration that allows for more verticality in levels and a friendly tool that makes the platforming more forgiving. There’s something so satisfying about being able to salvage a botched jump by clinging onto the side of a cage and clawing back to the top.
But Super Mario 3D World is so much more than just the cat suit. Other items, like a cherry that can clone Mario or a giant ice skate, shine just as bright. The overworld is full of secrets and minigames, making it fun to just explore the map between stages. There’s even the diorama-set Captain Toad levels, which were so delightful that they spawned their own game.
 Every element is so lovingly crafted and nothing feels like superfluous filler.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It never once feels outdated despite being eight years old, but that doesn’t mean it’s perfect. The movement feels clumsy and slow compared to other 3D Mario games. While Super Mario Odyssey lets players string together different jumps to make for some surprisingly complex movement, 3D World feels much more limited. Any time I did a backflip, it was entirely by accident. The game also features some torturously slow auto-scrolling levels, which can kill the pace. Most of my deaths just came from impatiently running too far ahead as the screen moved at a snail’s pace behind me.
Even with those flaws, it’s hard not to be utterly charmed by Super Mario 3D World.
 The bright music, vibrant colors, and general tone all come together to form a game that’s just so happy to entertain without pretension. It’s a more successful Mario party than Mario Party.
Fast and furriest For those who have already played Super Mario 3D World , Bowser’s Fury is the star of the bundle. The entirely new mini-adventure goes above and beyond what’s expected from a package like this. While Nintendo has dropped unmemorable side-games with re-releases like Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga , Bowser’s Fury is so enjoyable on its own that its puzzling players don’t have the option to buy it as its own standalone download.
The premise is simple and hilarious. Bowser has grown to Godzilla-sized proportions for some reason and Bowser Jr. has to team up with Mario to bring his dad back down to size. Mario must travel around a series of islands and collect enough cat shines to morph into a cat kaiju himself. Sometimes, you forget how funny Nintendo can be.
The game remixes Super Mario 3D World ‘s movement and assets, Super Mario Odyssey ’s open-ended approach to levels, and Super Mario Sunshine ’s good time beach vibes to create a modern Mario greatest hits collection.
The islands are dotted with platforming challenges and objectives that seamlessly weave in and out of one another. Imagine if Nintendo took an entire world of Super Mario 3D World and linked all those disparate zones together on one wide-open map. Like Super Mario Odyssey , the result is a relaxing, free-roaming vacation that’s filled with rewards and secrets.
The entirely new mini-adventure goes above and beyond what’s expected from a package like this.
The main event is, of course, Bowser. The oversized Koopa occasionally rises from the water, reigning fire on Mario. That created for some tense moments where I’d be slowly making my way through a tricky platforming section, only to be forced to rush through the end before Bowser messed it all up. Some may find the random nature of it a little tiresome after a while, but it adds a layer of challenge to the game as players never know when they’ll get stuck in a firestorm.
When Mario has enough shines, he can enter a supersized boss fight. Considering how powerless players are whenever Bowser rises from the sea, there’s a special pleasure in suddenly getting to turn the tables and thrash back while towering above the tiny islands. The encounters themselves are somewhat basic (Mario sure loves to ground pound bellies) and the camera often doesn’t know how to handle having two titans on screen at once, but the clashes are as goofy and entertaining as a Saturday morning cartoon.
Bang for your buck What’s most impressive is how much players get with this package.
Super Mario 3D World was already a loaded game with eight worlds and four challenging bonus worlds on top of that. Diehards can spend up to 40 hours mastering each level, collecting each stamp, and hunting down every last star. Toss in Bowser’s Fury , which contains 100 shines to collect, and the total package contains 50 hours of single-player fun.
Every little piece takes an already great Mario game and tucks it into a must-own package.
That’s not even taking the multiplayer into account.
Super Mario 3D World supports up to four players, which creates the kind of chaotic 3D platforming that friends can laugh over. Bowser’s Fury includes a multiplayer component as well, with one player controlling Bowser Jr., but it’s more of a sidekick mode that’s meant to keep kids occupied while mom or dad plays.
The package even sports a new photo mode, which is a welcome touch. Any stamps players collect through the game can be used in snapshots, so there’s actually a little incentive to hunt them down.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Every little piece takes an already great Mario game and tucks it into a must-own package. Re-releases rarely ever feel essential for players who owned the original (see Super Mario 3D All-Stars , with its bare-bones ports of three Mario staples), but Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury breaks the mold by offering two delightful, content-loaded games for the price of one.
Our take Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury is one of the best Nintendo Switch packages money can buy. The Wii U classic hasn’t aged a day and remains a delightful romp that contains some of the franchise’s most creative ideas. Meanwhile, the new Bowser’s Fury mode is a superb standalone adventure that plays like a short, but sweet Super Mario Odyssey sequel. It’s a joyful duo of games that celebrates Mario’s past, present, and future all at once.
Is there a better alternative? Super Mario Odyssey is still the best Mario game available on Switch, but this package isn’t far behind.
How long will it last? Super Mario 3D World takes about 10 hours and Bowser’s Fury can be completed in around three, but hitting 100% completion between the two games takes its play time up to around 50 hours.
Should I buy it? Yes. Even if you owned Super Mario 3D World on Wii U, the re-release is an essential single and multi-player game that’ll sit right alongside The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild as a must-own Switch title.
Editors' Recommendations All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder All Super Mario Bros. Wonder power-ups, ranked Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct: how to watch and what to expect Bowser attacks in The Super Mario Bros. Movie’s first trailer You can play a fan-made Super Mario Bros. 5 in Mario Maker 2 right now Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Bethesda has announced that it added six titles to the PC Game Pass service today, most of which are from the 1990s or early 2000s. However, there is no word about them being included on Xbox Game Pass for console or cloud.
The six new games include Wolfenstein 3D, Return to Castle Wolfenstein, Quake 4, Quake Champions, An Elder Scrolls Legend: Battlespire, and The Elder Scrolls Adventures: Redguard.
Gaming Super Nintendo World is set to open at Universal Studios Hollywood in early 2023. Universal announced the opening date for the Nintendo-themed attraction on Thursday, which is a more firm launch window than has been previously given.
To commemorate the announcement of Super Nintendo World's stateside opening date, Universal Studios posted a few pictures and a video of the signature ride, Mario Kart: Bowser's Challenge. The ride is an AR-on-rails experience where guests put on AR glasses shaped like Mario's hat and ride in a four-seat Mario Kart-style go-kart in a race to beat Team Bowser.
Gaming Mario Golf: Super Rush is getting its first free update today, August 5. It will include a new mode, character, course, and improved features.
This comes by way of the official Nintendo of America Twitter account, which features a quick video for the new update.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
