Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? ‘Super Smash Bros. Ultimate’ review ‘Super Smash Bros. Ultimate’ is an ode to gaming that lives up to its name By Gabe Gurwin Close $59.99 Includes every character in the series’ history Awesome newcomers Great stage selection Creative single-player mode Several controller options Online matchmaking needs work The campaign could use more cinematics The Super Smash Bros. series has evolved dramatically since it made its debut on the Nintendo 64 back in 1999. What began as a party game soon morphed into a full-fledged competitive fighter, but Nintendo and director Masahiro Sakurai never forgot what made it so successful: fandom.
Everyone really is here Play it your way Step into the light Online falls short DT Gameplay Our Take Whether you love Pokémon , Mario, Zelda, Splatoon, or even Final Fantasy, Super Smash Bros. has something to offer you, and in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate , the number of options you have is downright ludicrous. It certainly lives up to its Ultimate name, and it has instantly become one of the Switch’s must-have games.
All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder All Super Mario Bros. Wonder power-ups, ranked Mario vs. Donkey Kong is getting a Nintendo Switch remake in February Everyone really is here Forget about checking a roster list to see if your favorite character made the cut – Super Smash Bros. Ultimate has every single fighter in the series available to play, even if they share an identical move-set to someone else. There are more than 70 different fighters to choose from, and though it can be a little overwhelming to pick your main and start honing your skills, it’s impressive that the development team would even consider such a feat.
Prefer Young Link to his replacement, Toon Link, or want to use Mewtwo instead of Lucario? You won’t find much difference in their styles, but that comes secondary to just living out your fantasy of controlling your favorite character in a massive brawl.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Like all other games in the series, you don’t start with all the characters right off the bat, and in Ultimate , you’re going to need to set aside quite a bit of time to unlock them all. Being limited to just a handful from the start does seem a little incompatible with Ultimate given its premise, but you don’t have to jump through a bunch of hoops to get your favorites.
Playing the game as you normally would prompt random challenges from new fighters. When you finally get that one newcomer you’ve been itching to try out, it’s like opening a new present on Christmas morning, only its one you can beat you up and will leave you disappointed if you can’t win.
Forget about checking a roster list to see if your favorite character made the cut.
There are, however, likely to be some Nintendo fans annoyed by how far the roster skews towards a few key series. The number of Pokémon you can use is now at 10, if counting the Pokémon trainer as three, and there are seven Fire Emblem heroes. Of those seven, all use swords, and four have blue hair. Mixing in a few different types of heroes would have been welcome, though with the game’s design philosophy this means it would have likely ballooned the roster even more.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate ’s kitchen sink approach extends to the stages, with more than 100 available at launch. All of them support special Battlefield and Omega variants, so competitive players don’t have to look at the same boring backgrounds for hours on end.
Among our favorite new stages are Great Plateau Tower from The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and Dracula’s Castle from Castlevania , both of which perfectly replicate the tone of their original games without sacrificing playability. The returning favorites are still more than welcome, with the Super Mario Maker and Final Fantasy VII stages particularly standing out.
Play it your way If you’ve played Super Smash Bros. for Wii U or Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS , you’ll be familiar with the basic flow of battles in Ultimate.
 It’s quick, but far from the lightning-fast pace of Melee , and the mix of characters vary wildly in their attack and movement speed.
Fox can still run circles around someone like Bowser, but with the moves available for even these heavy hitters, you never feel like you’re at a disadvantage. An optional Final Smash meter, which builds up over the course of a fight, also allows those struggling to unleash their best attack without needing to break the Smash Ball, though that is also an option.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate ’s kitchen sink approach extends to the stages, as well.
Players used to the GameCube controller, which has been a staple of the series since Melee , still have the option to use it in Ultimate , but it’s far from your only choice this time around. The game supports the Switch Pro controller, though it feels a bit odd, and you can also play the game with the Switch in handheld mode or with one Joy-Con turned sideways.
None of them feel as perfect as using the tried-and-true option (or in our case, a close alternative ) but you don’t absolutely need to rush out and spend extra cash for when your friends come over. Even the single Joy-Con option works well enough, and surprisingly more so than in other Switch games like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.
Step into the light Before you do battle your friends, however, there are beefy single-player options in Smash Ultimate , and they see the game at its most creative. The World of Light campaign mode isn’t exactly like Brawl ’s Subspace Emissary, as there is no platforming and limited cinematics, but its world-colliding journey takes you to several series’ most iconic locations.
After a mysterious and powerful being transforms nearly all Nintendo characters into possessed slaves, it’s up to Kirby to free them and utilize spirits in order to power up the growing team and return balance to the universe. It’s not drastically different from the limited stories we’ve seen from Smash Bros. before, but through a mix of puzzles and stage design, World of Light truly feels like a comprehensive look at Nintendo history.
The spirits introduced in World of Light can also be used in other modes, and they essentially act like your leveling and power-up system. By battling enemies who aren’t part of the main roster, such as a legendary Pokémon or a minor Fire Emblem character, you gain the ability to use them as your Primary spirit, which determines your power level during battles. Other characters can be equipped as Support spirits, which give you immunity to certain stage effects, a starting weapon, or an extra bonus during fights.
Through a mix of puzzles and stage design, World of Light truly feels like a comprehensive look at Nintendo history.
It’s a clever system that isn’t particularly necessary outside of World of Light, but the single-player mode makes it interesting by how it presents the spirits to you in battle. For example, Rabbid Donkey Kong isn’t a playable hero in Ultimate , but you still have to battle him. The game mimics his look by turning Donkey Kong into a Rabbid, placing bunny ears on his head and all. It’s like Nintendo characters are playing dress-up in their backyard, and seeing which heroes Ultimate would use to replicate certain characters put a smile on our face for hours.
The shorter Classic mode returns, complete with more bosses than just Master Hand this time. There are also a couple of additional modes for those looking to mix things up. Smashdown forces you and your opponent to pick a new character each round, and requires mastery in more than just a few heroes.
You can also fight in an elimination-style three-on-three or five-on-five brawl in Squad Strike. None of these are likely to hold your attention for too long individually, but they do serve as great training tools before you take on other players.
Online falls short Multiplayer is at the heart of the Smash Bros. experience, and this is still the case in Ultimate, though it’s also where the game could still use some work. Local battles work flawlessly, as you’d expect from Nintendo, but when things go online, the experience is more mixed. We used Wi-Fi rather than a LAN adapter and ran into a few hitching and disconnecting issues, as well as trouble getting our matchmaking preferences to consistently be honored.
Searching for a solo match often still results in getting a team battle instead, but the system does seem to pair players of similar skill level together. Nearly every fight we had was close, occasionally even going into overtime after neither side could get a definitive final kill.
These moments are when newcomers can understand why others love the series so much. As you struggle with an enemy you can’t defeat and the two of you size each other up, you begin reacting and adjusting on the fly, with quick dodges and hit-and-run attacks.
The final blow usually comes after one player makes a wrong move, and that feeling of being this close to winning means you’re inevitably going to play another match. One more turns into five more, and before you know it, it’s 3 a.m. and you’re struggling to stay awake. We wouldn’t want it any other way, and as more DLC characters are released in the future, it could become a recurring event.
DT Gameplay Our Take Super Smash Bros. Ultimate is a game so comprehensive and engaging that it’s difficult to see where Nintendo and Sakurai can take the series next. The sheer number of options and modes you have to choose from can keep you and your friends busy for hours or days at a time, and even those uninterested in fighting games will be impressed by the reverence and love that its developers showed to every included franchise. You can’t own a Switch without owning Super Smash Bros. Ultimate , and for some, it might even be the only game you need on the system.
Is there a better alternative? No. Even Melee might be on its way out.
How long will it last? World of Light took us just under 19 hours to complete. Multiplayer will likely thrive for the rest of the Switch’s lifespan.
Should you buy it? Yes, even if you lean more toward single-player games.
Editors' Recommendations Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday All secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is getting a surprise Switch release Nintendo Direct September 2023: how to watch and what to expect Super Mario Bros. Wonder is getting a very red Nintendo Switch OLED Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Nintendo will reveal more about Super Mario Bros. Wonder during a Nintendo Direct dedicated to the game that's set for later this week. Nintendo announced this new 2D Mario game during a Direct in June, but we haven't learned much more about it since then outside of the fact that Charles Martinet won't voice Mario in it. As such, this is a presentation Mario fans will definitely want to tune into ahead of the game's release in October. If you're planning to watch the Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct live, this is everything you need to know about watching it.
When is the Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct Nintendo confirmed that the Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct will take place at 7 a.m. PT on August 31. It says the showcase will last "roughly 15 minutes," so you'll only need to set aside a little bit of time on Thursday morning for it.
How to watch the Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct Like most Nintendo Directs, this Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct will be live-streamed on Nintendo's YouTube channel. The premiere for it is already live on YouTube, and you can watch it from this article with the embedded video below.
Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct 8.31.2023 What to expect from the Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct Super Mario Bros. Wonder launches for Nintendo Switch on October 20, but there's still a lot we don't know about it. Nintendo simply says the Direct will serve as "an in-depth look at Mario's latest 2D side-scrolling adventure," so expect a deep dive into the different characters, gimmicks, and abilities players will encounter during the game.
I personally hope we learn more about some of the new power-ups we can use in the adventure, like the Wonder Flower that makes levels weird and the strange-looking power-up that turns Mario into an elephant. One thing you shouldn't expect from this Direct: other Nintendo games. This is a livestream to tune into if you want to learn more about Super Mario Bros. Wonder and Super Mario Bros. Wonder alone. That's not such a bad thing, though.
Gaming The Nintendo Switch has received excellent ports of some of the best fighting games from recent years, as well as plenty of exclusive titles. While Super Smash Bros. games may still be the best fit for the Switch, you can choose from a wide variety of fighting styles, from flashy anime to gory Kombat. Let’s take a look at the best options around! Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Gaming Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl, the Super Smash Bros.-like fighting game from 2021 that starred characters from notable Nickelodeon shows, is getting a direct sequel later this year. Eat your heart out, Super Smash Bros. Melee.
Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 - Exclusive Announcement Trailer An article on IGN, which revealed Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 for GameMill Entertainment, highlights some more new details about this game. Obviously, there's a visual overhaul to the characters and stages, but there are some notable gameplay additions as well. Players will have access to powerful new Super attacks, and there will be lots of new fighters to try out. The two new ones revealed in this trailer are Squidward from SpongeBob SquarePants and Jimmy Neutron from The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius.
All of the game's characters will have voice acting at launch too, which wasn't the case with the first game. Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 will feature multiple new game modes, including a single-player campaign where Nickelodeon characters unite to stop Vlad Plasmius from Danny Phantom. On top of all that, there will be full cross-play across all platforms at launch.
While it's unlikely that this sequel to a fun but janky fighting game will ever come anywhere close to the revered Super Smash Bros. Melee in quality, it's nice to see that Ludosity and Fair Play Labs got an opportunity to refine their crossover fighting game series further.
Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 launches sometime later this year for PC, PS4, PS5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Nintendo Switch. It will cost $50 at launch and has a $25 season pass that grants an exclusive SpongeBob SquarePants skin at launch and four new characters over the course of 2024.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
