Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to Win Fortnite Best Places to Land in Fortnite Fortnite Split-Screen Best Fortnite Skins Fortnite Augments Fortnite Guardian Shield How to Claim Fortnite Capture Points Fortnite Nitro Drifter Home Gaming Features Tears of the Kingdom’s Ultrahand creations reveal its biggest strength By Tomas Franzese Close The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom has only been out for a few days , and players are already stretching the limits of what its Ultrahand system can do. From Korok-torturing crucifixes to trojan horses to NSFW robots, Ultrahand can clearly do a lot more than open doors or create simple vehicles.
Tears of the Kingdom is a testament to how games that rely on the player’s creativity are so magical and how they quickly get ridiculous and go viral.
The joy of creating The joy of seeing others create Image used with permission by copyright holder Tears of the Kingdom also stands in contrast to most other games that offer that type of player experience. Player creations like this are usually labeled as “user-generated content” and take center stage in creation-focused games like Dreams and Meet Your Maker , as well as more monetizable ones like Fortnite and Horizon Worlds.
 However, Tears of the Kingdom stands out as a tremendous single-player adventure, reminding us of the type of creative joy that only games can deliver.
The joy of creating I’m not the best at creating things in Tears of the Kingdom , but even I have some fun anecdotes that have to do with my Ultrahand builds. I spent hours trying to build a complicated ramp for a ball in a Shrine puzzle, only for the simplest two-platform build to work way better immediately. Later, I made a little flying machine to bring a Korok to his friend, but accidentally fell off and was left watching as the Korok and vehicle crashed into the side of a mountain.
These emergent moments are pure, player-created fun. They tap into the same joy that building a tough base in Meet Your Maker or an impressive game in Dreams does, but do so in a more single-player-minded and focused way. Nintendo was clever in how it set limits with Ultrahand in Tears of the Kingdom.
 Like the Super Mario Maker games, the UI for using Ultrahand is very understandable, even if the controls can be a little clunky.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Most objects can be attached to one another. Still, in any given area of Hyrule or Shrine, there’s typically a limited amount of interactable items and Zonai devices at the player’s disposal that will help guide them toward the best builds. And, outside of those Koroks, it’s impossible to Ultrahand any living creature, preventing any more unsavory kinds of builds.
Tears of the Kingdom sets limits, but can still empower and entertain almost any player with its creation tools in the same way a game like Fortnite or Dreams can. People don’t choose between being a player and a creator; they have to do both. Having some fun Ultrahand-related anecdotes is unavoidable if you decide to pick up Tears of the Kingdom.
 But if you want to see the Ultrahand system pushed to its limits, you can look at Twitter or TikTok and see some pretty wild things.
The joy of seeing others create Social media is teeming with tons of Ultrahand builds that are both funny and impressive. Of course, it’s hard to avoid the rampant forms of Korok torture, from crucifying them to launching one away with a bunch of rockets.
 Not even tied to any specific game objective, some players have managed to build Trojan Horses , a Gundam-like mech that can annihilate enemies, and a large wooden structure with a face and suggestively placed flamethrower.
新しい神獣 #ゼルダの伝説 #TearsOfTheKingdom #Zelda #NintendoSwitch pic.twitter.com/uBBAc0HWir &mdash; ZAKUYA (@ZAKUYA_BOTW) May 13, 2023 Once again, Tears of the Kingdom achieves the same kind of user-generated content that metaverses like Fortnite and Horizon Worlds desperately want, but in a more refined and unrestricted way. Give players the tools to make things, and they’ll find the most off-the-wall ways to utilize them — and they have done that with Tears of the Kingdom.
 Plus, in a single-player adventure, all of the worries of moderation or surfacing the best creations are absent; people on social media will do that for you.
Watching these creations come to life online is one of the best parts of the Tears of the Kingdom experience.
 At the same time, there’s no pressure to match the more impressive creations of other players within your own adventure or no need to hope that your creation gains traction in the servers it’s unleashed onto. There’s no extra monetization layered within that, no peer pressure to only play or create with friends, and no battle pass that you could be spending more time grinding toward instead.
Tears of the Kingdom tasks everyone with being a creator in its purest form. Not everyone will be making a Gundam-like mech during their playthrough, but it can feel just as rewarding to Ultrahand some logs together to make a long bridge to cross a gap you didn’t think was possible to get across. It’s an enjoyable type of problem-solving only possible in games.
Tears of the Kingdom provides the same kind of player-created entertainment you get from games like Minecraft or Fortnite , but in a much purer single-player form. You don’t feel like a cog in the user-generated content machine; you feel like the machine.
The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is available now for Nintendo Switch.
Editors' Recommendations The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom DLC is not happening, says Nintendo Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is almost perfect, but it could use these tweaks Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom’s new update removes item duplication glitch Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom’s sequel should go full Death Stranding Zeldas: Tears of the Kingdom players are creating an industrial revolution Features Fortnite Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming If you own physical copies of both The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and Tears of the Kingdom, here's a cute Easter egg for you. Put both boxes side by side with Tears of the Kingdom on the right. If you don't own the games, here's what that looks like.
Do you notice any link between those two covers (and no, I'm not talking about Link himself). Look closely at where those two covers meet and you'll notice that Tears of the Kingdom's box continues the art of Breath of the Wild's.
Gaming As a puzzle game fan, my favorite part of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild is its shrines. These mini-dungeons often act as ingenious little puzzle chambers that test my understanding of the game’s abilities and physics. I was thrilled when I loaded up The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom and immediately found that the development team kept that idea intact for the sequel. I’d have over 150 new shrines to hunt down, including a handful that were unlocked via navigation puzzles in the open world.
It’s not just the fact that shrines return, though, that got me excited; it’s the fact that they’re even better this time around. That’s thanks in large part to how they interact with the sequel’s crafting systems, serving a larger purpose beyond giving Link some scattered challenges to solve.
Driving permit exams Tears of the Kingdom’s shrines aren’t much different from Breath of the Wild’s on paper. Each one functions like a Portal test chamber built around a specific gameplay mechanic or theme. One has players solving puzzles using buoyancy physics, while another has them ascending their way to the top of a rotating cube. Even combat-focused shrines have specific gimmicks this time, testing players’ mastery of specific item fusions or environmental interactions.
Gaming For 37 years, the Legend of Zelda series has held its place as gaming’s most important franchises. It carries the same gravitas as classic literature, with several entries in the series feeling like canonical classics that should be in the syllabus of any video game course. It’s a collection of foundational tales that helped build what an adventure game plays like, but also what a fundamental hero’s journey story looks like in the medium. And of course, standing tall at the center of Zelda’s timeless nature is … Link.
Yes, despite Zelda’s name being the core of the franchise’s branding, the Hylian princess long played second fiddle to the series’ voiceless protagonist. In early games, she was a distressed damsel to be saved. She’d get to show off a bit of her power in later ones, but Link -- the hero of time -- tended to get most of the attention.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
