Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews The Legend of Zelda: Link’s Awakening review Link's Awakening makes a timeless classic even better By Steven Petite Close $59.99 Wonderful art style Clever dungeon design More collectibles Numerous quality of life improvements Amazing in handheld mode Chamber Dungeons get dry quickly Occasional framerate drops Relentlessly endearing and unfailingly clever, The Legend of Zelda: Link’s Awakening is an ode to the Zelda of old, furnished with modernizations and subtle, but impactful, enhancements. Coming out of its two-decade-long slumber, Link’s Awakening reestablishes itself as one of the best games in the series. It’s the perfect game to play in handheld mode, showing off the dual strengths of the Switch hardware.
We’re not in Hyrule anymore Yup, still clever New to the party The Legend of Zelda Maker, please Our Take Yes, Link’s Awakening already received a makeover five years after its initial launch as Link’s Awakening DX for Game Boy Color in 1998. But that was largely just a coat of color.
Link’s Awakening for Switch radically alters the art style, moves the camera closer to the action, and scatters many more collectibles around the idyllic and mysteriously bizarre Koholint Island. All told, Link’s Awakening for Switch stands as the definitive version of the best handheld entry in the series.
The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom DLC is not happening, says Nintendo The best Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom mods Watch these 5 movies if you liked The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom The new aesthetic brilliantly captures the heart of Koholint Island, bringing every last drop of dormant charm to the surface. Unfortunately, the new Chamber Dungeons mode, which lets you build and play dungeons using rooms from existing dungeons, feels tacked on. Chamber Dungeons only made me want a real “The Legend of Zelda Maker” that much more.
Nevertheless, Link’s Awakening uses an already fantastic foundation to make a fresh iteration that will undoubtedly appeal to both longtime fans and newcomers.
We’re not in Hyrule anymore By now, Zelda fans are more than used to entries that take place outside of Hyrule, but Link’s Awakening was the first to do it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder For the uninitiated, The Legend of Zelda: Link’s Awakening takes place directly after the events of A Link to the Past.
 Traversing the high sea, Link runs into a storm that destroys his raft. He comes home to a bed inside a small home, gazing up at Marin and her father Tarin, soon learning he is on Koholint Island.
Link gathers his sword and shield, and is then informed by a wise owl that he must awaken the Wind Fish to get back home. Restrained inside of a giant eff at the apex of Koholint Island, the only way to stir him from his slumber is to collect the eight instruments of the Sirens from the dungeons situated throughout the island.
Koholint Island still has the usual trappings of the series: A central town called Mabe Village, an unsettling forest, lush prairie, swamp, desert, cemetery, caves, and calm streams segmenting the brown clay landmasses covered in bright green grass, both high and closely mown. Overall, it’s a smaller overworld than most Zelda games, but the quaintness works quite well thanks to the personality of the people and animals who inhabit it.
With Link’s Awakening , the fresh look gels incredibly well with the world and its characters.
Koholint Island is pretty darn weird. There’s Schule Donavitch, an alligator painter who is working on a portrait of a hippo simply named Hippo. Schule’s brother Sale sells bananas in a beach hut on Toronbo Shores. Madam MeowMeow raises Chain Chomps and loves to tell Link about her prized BowWow’s fur coat. Chef Bear longs for the day when he can open a restaurant in Mabe Village. This quirky group of characters brings Koholint Island to life, adding to both the cozy story and the air of mystery that the island holds.
The significantly redesigned graphical style complements Koholint Island’s defining features and residents. All of the characters look like toy dolls, while environments are extra bright and filled with far more detail than ever before. The overall aesthetic can be described in one word: Adorable.
Though top-down like old school and handheld Zelda games, the camera perspective is closer to the ground, providing an isometric view that really helps show off the detailed animations, both big and small. It’s all irresistibly cute, even when squaring off against the Nightmares (bosses) in each dungeon.
Regions in the overworld freely flow into one another, no longer limited by “screens” that segmented the island into a grid. Dungeons are the exception here, as many of the rooms retain the same dimensions as the original, which is understandable. The framerate occasionally gets a bit choppy in Mabe Village, which is abnormal for first-party Nintendo games. It’s not frequent enough to sour the delightful presentation, though.
I’ve always liked how Nintendo has toyed with different art styles with the Zelda series. With Link’s Awakening , the fresh look gels incredibly well with the world and its characters. The charm is heightened even more from the updated sound effects and orchestrated score that includes some of the most soothing and catchy tunes in franchise history.
Yup, still clever Link’s Awakening first released in 1993, practically making it a video game dinosaur. Game design has advanced since then, so it wouldn’t be surprising if the dungeons felt limited or even stale. That’s not the case here. All eight main dungeons and the optional Color Dungeon (returning from Link’s Awakening DX ) are remarkable feats in level design. They still hold some of the most clever and engaging puzzles in franchise history. Before you even enter the dungeons, the quests to secure the entrance keys are engaging mini-adventures themselves.
Image used with permission by copyright holder This is classic Zelda, with locked rooms, treasure chests that appear when defeating enemies and solving puzzles, and of course, an item to add to Link’s inventory. Smartly, the sword, shield, Pegasus Boots, Power Bracelet, and Flippers are always equipped (once unlocked). This frees you up to map two additional items to X and Y. There’s not nearly as much need to go into the menu and swap out bombs for the Hook Shot or Roc’s Feather for the Boomerang. The streamlined inventory management system really makes a huge difference.
What I really love about The Legend of Zelda: Link’s Awakening ’s dungeons are how all of them feel quite different when it comes to layout, puzzles, and enemies. Whether you’re slashing multi-colored blocks in the right pattern to make them all match, bouncing chess pieces off the ground to get them into their slots, or filling the empty tiles in the room with a fully controllable movable block, the dungeons constantly delight. Dungeon compasses now point in the direction of treasure chests rather than just beeping. It’s a small addition that wasn’t really needed, but it doesn’t hurt the experience either.
Even though it’s tougher than the average Zelda game, it’s not Breath of the Wild hard.
It’s not just the puzzles; the enemies shine, too. From Spiked Beetles that must be bopped with a shield before dealing damage to Moblins and Sword Stalfos who need to be parried before landing a hit to Dodongo Snakes that need to ingest three bombs, the baddies that lurk in the eight dungeons offer a great variety that really compels you to use the items you gather along the way.
And yes, those are Goombas, Piranha Plants, and Cheep Cheeps in the sidescrolling sections. Most times you enter a dungeon staircase, it’s like you emerge in another world. There are even a few Boos and a strange version of Kirby.
 The Super Mario and Kirby cameos add to the charming weirdness of Koholint Island.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The mini-bosses and Nightmares are well-designed and generally offer a tougher challenge than the average Zelda boss. My favorite mini-boss is Smasher, who tosses a heavy ball at Link. The only way to damage him is to pick up the ball yourself and lob it back at him. He flees when you pick up his prized possession, making for a pretty funny showdown. And the Nightmare Slime Eel forces you to use a combination of Roc’s Feather to dodge spinning attacks while pulling the eel from the wall with the Hook Shot. It’s not always immediately clear how to approach a boss, which makes that “aha” moment all the more satisfying.
Even though it’s tougher than the average Zelda game, it’s not Breath of the Wild hard. If you want a stiffer challenge, you can jump into Hero mode from the start, which doubles enemy damage and removes heart drops. It’s a strenuous but rewarding way to play.
New to the party Though an authentic remake, Link’s Awakening for Switch does add a score of great new features that make the journey to the Wind Fish’s egg even better.
The original only had 12 Heart Pieces, that number has climbed to 32 in the remake. Secret Seashells ballooned from 26 to 50, and an unlockable Seashell Sensor alerts you when you’re near a find. Fairy Bottles have been added, which is great from both a gameplay and collectible perspective.
Image used with permission by copyright holder New Mario collectibles beyond the Yoshi Doll from the crane game in Mabe Village have been added. These furnish the houses in Mabe Village. They aren’t game-changing additions, but still, it’s more stuff to find. And Zelda games partly revolve around the joy of finding stuff.
I really like that after acquiring the boomerang, you can buy back the item you traded it for rather than having to keep trading back and forth. More fast travel spots have been added, so you can warp all over the map and save time.
There’s a ton of backtracking for collectibles in The Legend of Zelda: Link’s Awakening.
 I love how collectibles feel just out of reach. It’s like the game is telling you: “There’s more here than meets the eye.” Nintendo added a Breath of the Wild -style pin system to let you mark up to 30 spots on the map at once with various icons such as hearts, treasure chests, and shapes. It’s a wonderful new addition that adds convenience to backtracking.
The Legend of Zelda Maker, please In this iteration of Link’s Awakening , Dampé the graveyard keeper from Ocarina of Time has set up shop where the Camera Shop was in Link’s Awakening DX.
 With the camera photo collectibles gone, Dampé has a more active task for you: Building and playing your own dungeons. The vast majority of the rooms you can place hail from the main dungeons. You simply connect these “Chamber Stones” together, adding rooms with locked doors, treasure chests, stairs, and bosses. You can find new pieces and earn them by completing your creations.
While Chamber Dungeons has a nice guided set of challenges where you build and play, gradually creating more advanced layouts, it gets dry rather quickly. I mostly kept playing to get collectibles, as you can earn Heart Pieces and Secret Seashells in Chamber Dungeons.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The problem here is that you’re not building levels from scratch. You’re merely connecting rooms from dungeons that more than likely don’t have the same theme. It’s weird, sometimes jarring, and just made me want to replay the main adventure again to take on the actual dungeons a second time. You can eventually add effects to rooms, like bombs dropping from the ceiling, as tweaked versions of the original rooms, but these are minor flourishes that only temporarily break up the routine feeling of Chamber Dungeons.
Zelda Amiibo can store dungeons and unlock Chamber Stones. That said, you probably won’t be awed by your buddy’s Chamber Dungeon.
Chamber Dungeons doesn’t take anything away from Link’s Awakening on Switch, but it doesn’t add much either. Now a real The Legend of Zelda Maker? That’s something I could get behind.
Our Take The Legend of Zelda: Link’s Awakening for Nintendo Switch is a near-perfect remake. Its wonderful redone art style suits the quirky Koholint Island. The dungeons are as clever as I remembered, and Nintendo added a bunch of additional collectibles and quality of life improvements to make exploring the world even dandier. The new Chamber Dungeons mode is bland and forgettable, but it’s totally optional and doesn’t deter from this grand old school Zelda adventure.
Is there a better alternative? No, Link’s Awakening is in a league of its own when it comes to top-down Zelda games, and adventure games in general, on the Switch.
How long will it last? It took me about 30 hours to finish the story and find most of the collectibles. I spent around five hours with Chamber Dungeons.
Should you buy it? Yes, Link’s Awakening is one of the best adventure games on Switch.
Editors' Recommendations Nintendo’s next console may feature DLSS and ray-tracing support Nintendo Switch deals: Don’t pay full price! The worst Zelda games ever made are getting a spiritual successor Where to farm Zonite in Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom’s new update removes item duplication glitch Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is finally here. Already one of our favorite Zelda games of all time and a confirmed spectacular sequel to 2017's The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, this is a Hyrule adventure that players are going to spend hundreds of hours completing. While hunting down Ganondorf, Link will have to find hundreds of shrines, explore the Sky Islands and a massive underground world beneath Hyrule's great fields, and fight off enemies of all kinds while mastering new abilities and skills.
It's dangerous to go alone! Take these guides.
Gaming Weapon durability can be tough to deal with in The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom. However, there's a little trick you can do to actually fix your weapons, shields, and bows -- and it's relatively easy to perform. In this guide, we'll show you how to repair weapons in Tears of the Kingdom with one easy trick.
How to repair weapons If you played The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, you might know where this is going. What you need to do is visit a Rock Octorok, which can be found around Hyrule. Specifically, this enemy can be found just northeast of Goron City in the spot on the map above. This Octorok spawns here consistently, so it's an easy method to get the trick to work.
Gaming Diamonds are one of the best resources in The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, as they sell for 500 Rupees and offer 25 attack power when fused to weapons. Since they're so valuable, they're tricky to find, with only a handful of ways to get your hands on them.
In this guide, we'll show you how to find diamonds in Tears of the Kingdom.
Where to find diamonds Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
