Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Xenoblade Chronicles 3 review: The best RPG story I’ve played in ages By Jess Reyes Close $60.00 Emotional rollercoaster Likable characters Unique character classes Experimentation-friendly Swoonworthy visuals Overwhelming combat Tedious item grinding Exploration could be better Imagine fighting a war alongside your childhood friends. It’s you and your besties dining with your ex-mortal enemies, on the run from the world. Now, all there’s left to do is live — if you can even make it. That’s the basis for the story of Xenoblade Chronicles 3 , one of the best narrative experiences I’ve ever had in a game.
Best story I’ve played in ages Jesus take the wheel Hello cruel world Our take In Nintendo’s latest RPG monolith, Noah and his childhood friends, Lanz and Eunie, team up with Agnus special ops members Mio, Sena, and Taion to find the reason they were given the power of Ouroboros. The world of Aionios employs soldiers who fight to fuel “Flame Clocks,” which run on the life force of fallen enemies. Our heroes share a surprise encounter that blesses (or curses) them with the power to defy that world order with an alternate form. The catch? The Consuls, the Big Bad organization behind the scenes, wants to get rid of them. Many games use the “enemies turned friends” trope, but Xenoblade Chronicles 3 is different. The common thread of survival makes it believable. Each character seems to know the consequences, despite making the choice to ally with rebels.
The best special weapons in Splatoon 3 Splatoon 3: Best abilities in the game Splatoon’s story explained: All the lore you need to know before Splatoon 3 Xenoblade Chronicles 3 has what my friends lovingly refer to as the “Xenoblade problems,” but they’re worth it for the game’s top-tier RPG story. Just brace yourself for some complicated combat, overly tedious item hunting, and lacking exploration that might put off players who aren’t already bought in on the series.
Best story I’ve played in ages Xenoblade Chronicles 3 has a daunting runtime and a massive story, but its pacing is perfect. You might feel put off at first due to all its lengthy cutscenes, but they all feel necessary and meaningful to the story. Even the banter between characters isn’t wasted, as it builds the relationships between characters.
Xenoblade Chronicles 3 goes into enough depth for you to understand a character’s motivations and pain, enough that every story beat feels earned.
Were I grading Xenoblade Chronicles 3 on story alone, it would be a 10 out of 10.
The game tackles themes of loss, grief, and purpose. Characters may be in a completely different world, but I could easily relate to their struggles. We all lose people important to us and feel lost when things don’t go as planned.
Xenoblade Chronicles 3 isn’t afraid to tackle how meaningless life is without survival instinct and purpose.
There’s a new twist waiting at the end of every chapter too. Just when I think I have the narrative formula figured out, something totally unexpected happens. It’s refreshing, especially with how many RPGs lay out a clear “ end goal” at the beginning of the game.
Xenoblade Chronicles 3 makes you question if you really know what the game is about.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The game gives you endless time to bond with the characters and level up your party before choosing to progress the story. Chapters take at least five hours but can last longer thanks to the additional hero quests (to recruit new party members) and regular colony quests. Though just as impressive is that developer Monolith Soft found an impressive way to steadily introduce the game’s myriad of systems one at a time and tie them into the plot.
Jesus take the wheel At first, combat is a mess. You get used to it, but it takes patience to learn about multiple units and the small ways you can build each one. You start with six characters and then get a seventh “Hero” slot for party members you recruit throughout your journey. All these units fight at once in real-time action RPG combat.
As one might imagine, the screen constantly lights up with numbers, including the damage you deal, damage you receive, and healing notifications. It isn’t easy to differentiate between what everyone is actually doing. Healing and circles are more obvious because of colors: heals are green numbers, blue circles are defense, and red circles are attack buffs. But when it comes to differentiating between who did what damage, it beats me. You have to switch to each character to see how their kit is affecting them up close.
The complexity isn’t a flaw, even if the UI is.
Players control one character at a time and can switch between them during the fight. You can only switch between the six main characters. My typical strategy was just controlling whomever and then switching whenever someone needed a heal so I could save them before they died. Just pray that the AI doesn’t kill itself first.
Chain Attacks, which allow you to pummel your enemy with attacks from your characters, also help to take down bosses when you most need them. That, plus the heavy-hitting Ouroboros forms, are key to surviving tougher bosses later in the game. It took me forever to learn how to land higher ranking statuses like “amazing” or “bravo” in my combos and which arts are most optimal to learn for character classes.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Combat systems are about as layered as the plot. I wouldn’t recommend it to people who are new to JRPGs, just because it’s easy to become overwhelmed by the different parts. It’s easier to digest once you’ve reread tutorials, experimented with arts, and mashed through a couple of chapters (which are very long). In that sense, the complexity isn’t a flaw, even if the UI is.
I often winged it through battle, but I played on Normal difficulty. It didn’t take me long to figure out a way to overcome the bosses that wiped the floor with me, even if I needed to grind a bit before going back. I ran on auto-pilot in the beginning, especially since some fights popped up without any warning, and got through without needing to reset.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If you lose a fight, you get the option to retry the battle or not. There’s no penalty for saying “no,” you just restart at the point you were before the battle and get the option to level up characters and equip better gear. So, even if the combat system isn’t easy to understand, it’s forgiving enough to let you learn and try again without drawbacks.
If you’re a Xenoblade noob, you will probably be confused. The good news is that it doesn’t matter, so long as you regularly level up your team, keep the classes balanced, and put a minimum amount of effort into equipping equipment that sounds helpful.
Hello cruel world In my Xenoblade Chronicles 3 preview , I was initially unsure about exploration. After spending more time with it, I do feel like it could be better, though I appreciate how it goes against the grain. The game has a standard map that lets you look back on areas you’ve already explored and fast travel to a reasonable number of teleportation points. That part is convenient and painless. Farming for materials and the sometimes unclear paths to get to point A from point B are not.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Monster drops are important because of crafting and the quest catalog. Gems, a kind of equippable accessory, need specific materials to level up. You can also complete “grocery list” quests from colony members for rewards. Most of them involve cashing in drops for a reward. However, it isn’t easy to find out where to get what you need, especially with the long list of monster names.
Xenoblade Chronicles 3 could benefit from an enemy encyclopedia like the one in Scarlet Nexus , which tells you where to find drops you’ve already found.
Early game monsters are at the same level when you travel back to the same locations. Fighting these monsters could be more satisfying if there was a “world level” like in Genshin Impact , where monster levels match the characters.
You just have to be ready for an action RPG that isn’t always the picture of elegance.
I had a problem with the disappointing jump height at the beginning of the game, but I got used to it eventually.
Xenoblade Chronicles 3 gives you the luxury of moving without a stamina bar, so that evened it out for me on my grading scale. I’m also guilty of just jumping from a tall height when I can’t figure out how to get down because the fall damage basically disappears when you hit the ground (within reason). Heroes offer exploration mechanics like the ability to climb marked walls and the ability to ride on wires. However, I felt they were pointlessly tied to characters and could’ve worked just as well if you learned them upon reaching certain checkpoints.
Our take If I were grading Xenoblade Chronicles 3 on story alone, it would be a 10 out of 10. If you get emotionally attached to characters, especially passionate ones who don’t want to hurt people and are just trying their best, then it’s a must-play. You just have to be ready for an action RPG that isn’t always the picture of elegance — and be prepared to live with those quirks through a long, long adventure.
Is there a better alternative? You can buy Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition on sale if you want to experience an earlier game at a cheaper price. It reminds me of Tales of Arise with the fantasy setting and character juggling, but even that isn’t quite the same.
How long will it take? Xenoblade Chronicles 3 is longer than your typical JRPG. It can take over 70 hours to complete the story. Each chapter takes about five hours to complete without factoring in side quests. I still haven’t even reached the top of the mountain.
Should you buy it? Yes. It’s a highly cinematic, mindfully crafted JRPG with a story that hasn’t let me down. You can spend hours just sorting through the different classes and equipment.
Xenoblade Chronicles 3 was tested on a Nintendo Switch in handheld mode.
Editors' Recommendations The best RPGs for the Nintendo Switch The best weapons in Splatoon 3 Xenoblade Chronicles 3 is adding a very mechanical DLC hero Xenoblade Chronicles 3: Colony affinity guide The best recipes in Xenoblade Chronicles 3 Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Games let us do a multitude of things we never would, or could, do in real life. JRPGs in particular let us live out fantastical adventures, cast magic, travel across majestic landscapes, and even care about what we're wearing. Gear of all forms has become a staple of RPGs as a whole, though they don't always actually impact your character's appearance. In Xenoblade Chronicles 3, you can, in fact, change what outfits your characters wear, but that won't impact their stats. Accessories are what you're looking for when trying to add some buffs to your party.
Accessories are items you will be purchasing and swapping in and out as you progress through the game. They all offer different bonuses to the wearer, and some are even only wearable by specific characters. However, since you can change what class each member of your party is in Xenoblade Chronicles 3, accessories are best categorized based on which class they're being applied to rather than which character. To help you build the most powerful classes in all of Aionios, here are the best accessories for each class in Xenoblade Chronicles 3.
Gaming JRPGs love to create their own terms for just about everything. Currency, spells, abilities, classes -- you name it and a JRPG will rename it. In Xenoblade Chronicles 3, not only do they have all those previously mentioned mechanics to learn but also two types of currencies. Thankfully, these aren't the types that have invaded more predatory games which have one in-game currency and another you need to spend real money on, but rather one special type that is much more difficult to come by.
Nopon Coins are not only a rare, but very useful, currency you will want to collect as much of as possible, but is even further divided into two sub-types. There's a ton of stuff to do in Xenoblade Chronicles 3, and only certain activities will payout with these rare coins. If you want to know everything you can do with Nopon Coins and the best way to farm them in Xenoblade Chronicles 3, check out our guide.
Gaming JRPGs have evolved a great deal since their early days. Where characters previously only got stronger by leveling up, the genre has gone on to include dozens of other factors in how strong a character can be with new weapons, armor, gear, clothing, and more. By the time we get to Xenoblade Chronicles 3 on the Nintendo Switch, you are going to be juggling multiple party members that all have their own loadouts to maximize if you want to stand a chance against the harsh monsters that stand in your way.
Aside from your normal levels and accessories, Xenoblade Chronicles 3 also has a very deep Gem system. This is a returning mechanic from previous games in the series but has been expanded and refined further in the latest game. Despite being slightly complex, this isn't a system you can afford to ignore since the buffs these Gems provide can mean the difference between victory and crushing defeat against bosses. To make sure you're wearing the most valuable Gems possible, here's a full guide on how they work in Xenoblade Chronicles 3.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
