Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Here’s when you can expect our Baldur’s Gate 3 review By Giovanni Colantonio Close As of this article’s publication, the review embargo has lifted for Baldur’s Gate 3.
 Don’t expect to find a lot of reviews for the biggest RPG of the year today, though.
When we’ll be reviewing Baldur’s Gate 3 What we think of Baldur’s Gate 3 so far Review codes for Baldur’s Gate 3 weren’t distributed to press until Sunday, July 30. That left critics only a few days to play through a reportedly 100-hour-long game and write a cogent critique of it. Naturally, that task is a next-to-impossible feat. We quickly decided that it would be doing a disservice to our critic, who would have had to put in unimaginable working hours in a few days, and to you, our readers, to try and rush out a review in time.
That situation might leave you with some questions and concerns. A lack of reviews for a major release can raise red flags in an era where video games often launch in an unfinished state. One can’t forget the disaster that was CD Projekt Red withholding the console version of Cyberpunk 2077 from critics, leading to a wave of inadvertently misleading reviews from writers testing on high-end PCs exclusively. We believe that transparency is more important than ever in situations like this, so we’d like to take a moment to outline our plans to properly review Baldur’s Gate 3 as well as offer our first impressions in case you can’t wait to buy it.
Though in case you’re sweating, I’ll cut to the chase: so far, so great.
When we’ll be reviewing Baldur’s Gate 3 Larian Studios Like other publications, Digital Trends received access to the full version of Baldur’s Gate 3 on Sunday, July 30. We quickly sent it over to our critic, CRPG expert Andrew Zucosky , who has been steadily working through it since then. Several members of the team have been playing it as well in order to provide our readers with some more immediate answers about performance and quality.
If you’re already sold on the game after its successful early access period and simply wondering how well it runs at launch, Computing Senior Staff Writer Jacob Roach has a full performance guide up right now. The prognosis is strong overall, as performance is stable at launch based on what we’ve played so far. There’s some hitching between zones, but there’s an option in the game’s menu to reduce VRAM usage. To get the best performance out of it, we recommend using Vulkan, turning off depth of field, and installing it on an SSD.
Note that Larian Studios pushed multiple major patches in the days after codes were distributed. It’s clear that the developer was doing some significant work on the game right up until launch, so we’ll need to play the full game to get a better sense of how polished it is overall.
As for our full review, we’re going to take our time considering the RPG’s enormous scope. Our goal is to publish a full review in time for the game’s PS5 launch on September 6.
 The exact date will depend on how long the game actually is, as our current priority is making sure our critic has the flexibility to play at a steady pace, better mirroring how we assume our readers will experience it.
Until then, we’ll be publishing some unique personal perspectives as we work through it. We also have a suite of guide content prepped to help get you started on your adventure. In short, expect a lot of coverage from us in the next month.
What we think of Baldur’s Gate 3 so far Larian Entertainment With all those logistics out of the way, there’s one question left to answer: What do we actually think of Baldur’s Gate 3 so far? We’re very impressed with our early hours, but that shouldn’t come as a surprise. Considering how little time we’ve had with it, we haven’t really gotten to play much beyond what was already available in early access. If you’ve yet to experience that, you’re in for a tabletop treat.
Baldur’s Gate 3 captures the experience of playing Dungeons & Dragons better than any game I’ve ever played. That starts with character creation, where players build a true character sheet complete with stats and proficiencies. I’m currently running a pink-haired Drow rogue with an emphasis on persuasion. I already feel like my adventure is shaping around that specific character, as I’m using my tongue to get out of sticky situations. I’ve avoided entire fights by successful bluffing, which really makes it feel like there’s a reactive dungeon master controlling the experience.
Combat similarly impresses, boiling down the complexities of D&D battles to an easy-to-understand, but deep system. Whenever I select a character from my party to attack, I have access to a ton of actions that go far beyond attacking and blocking. I can equip multiple spells — so long as I’ve prepared them beforehand — and can even do tabletop actions like making improvised weapons or safely disengaging from an enemy to avoid opportunity attacks. It’s an incredibly robust system that I was able to pick up quickly, though it can be a bit too easy to waltz into combat encounters far too underleveled.
Other little touches really help bring that tabletop experience to life. Whenever I need to make a skill check, I have to physically roll a 20-sided die and beat a number. I can see exactly what bonus modifiers I have active, which makes it much easier to understand my character’s strengths and their chances at success. Based on the bits I’ve played, Baldur’s Gate 3 is the most digestible D&D tutorial I’ve ever played, clarifying books and books of rules and nuances.
I’m still early in my adventure, but I’m eager to see more of its rich world — especially because its vibrant colors are so pleasant to look at. I’m also bought-in on its narrative hook, in which I need to find a way to remove a mind flayer’s parasite from my eye socket (something that’s shown in a mesmerizing, grotesque opening cutscene). But for now, I’m simply having a blast learning a lot of complex RPG systems that I’ve always struggled with in tabletop form. If its early momentum keeps up, Baldur’s Gate 3 could be a quintessential RPG for both hardcore fans and newcomers. We’ll just have to wait and see how it sticks the landing.
Editors' Recommendations One of the best games of the year is finally coming to Xbox next month The best games of August 2023: Baldur’s Gate 3, Sea of Stars, and more Warhammer 40,000: Rogue Trader could be your next 100-hour CRPG obsession I beat Baldur’s Gate 3 in 30 hours (and killed everyone in the process) Baldur’s Gate 3 and Hades have made me an early access believer Apple Features Gaming Baldur's Gate 3 has taken the video game industry by storm over the last week, even though it's only available on PC. While it will launch for PlayStation 5 on September 6 and is likely to get an Xbox launch eventually, there's one platform that it doesn't look like Baldur's Gate 3 will come to: the Nintendo Switch. Nintendo's hybrid system is a great home to many more traditional RPGs, but even compared to Xbox, the choices for solid CRPGs like Baldur's Gate 3 are slim on Nintendo Switch.
Still, they aren't nonexistent, so if you don't own any other platform that will eventually be able to play Baldur's Gate 3, you do have some options. In particular, the following six games (and one that's coming out soon) are clearly inspired by tabletop and classic CRPGs, and players looking for a Nintendo Switch experience similar to Baldur's Gate 3 should them try out.
Baldur's Gate and Baldur's Gate II: Enhanced Editions While Baldur's Gate 3 isn't on Nintendo Switch, its predecessors are. There are actually six remastered Dungeons & Dragons CRPGs on Switch, but I obviously had to shout out the original two Baldur's Gate games. These titles, which were originally developed by BioWare and remastered by Beamdog, set the standards that most Western-developed RPGs have followed in the decades since. The first Baldur's Gate proved that video games could have deeper stories with more complex characters than were typically seen and have gameplay that was more open-ended and reactive to players in its design.
Its sequel, Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn is considered to be even better by some as it builds upon the very solid foundation that its predecessor established. While somewhat dated compared to some slicker modern RPGs, both of these games still hold up and are worth playing if you want to see the birthplace of many foundational RPG ideas. Baldur's Gate and Baldur's Gate II: Enhanced Editions can be bought for $50 on Nintendo Switch, and it includes both game and all of their DLC (plus some new content), along with the visually improved remaster treatment you'd expect. Instead of playing Baldur's Gate 3, you can appreciate these classics on Nintendo Switch.
Divinity: Original Sin 2 - Definitive Edition Gaming With Baldur’s Gate 3 now out, I can't help but feel a surge of excitement. A game that I have been playing, --and loving -- since its early access back in 2020 is finally in the hands of the general public. Its reception is overwhelmingly positive and it is truly great to see people sink their teeth into such a fascinating and complex game. That is, if they aren't too intimated to start.
Computer role-playing games (CRPGs) are notorious for being a complicated and daunting genre, especially one like this that draws so heavily on Dungeons & Dragons rule sets. I couldn't blame anyone unfamiliar with the genre who just feels too intimidated by its scope. That being said, don't let Baldur’s Gate 3 scare you off; this is the best introduction to CRPGs ever made.
Start small, start slow The CRPG genre has a bad reputation for being unwieldy for new players thanks to all of the intricate layers of systems that tend to populate them. You usually have to deal with spells, weapon attacks, environmental stats, verticality, and so much more. It can give a new player stage fright as soon as they are given control of their character. Baldur’s Gate 3, on the other hand, does an excellent job of onboarding new players to the genre with its streamlined rules and systems.
Gaming When you picture a “bankable video game,” what comes to mind? That answer will probably elicit some wildly different answers depending on who you are.
As budgets have grown bigger and projects have become more financially risky, executives have struggled to turn video games into a reliable science. We’ve seen companies like Blizzard completely morph into something unrecognizable as they try to find new monetization streams. Square Enix has strayed away from its turn-based RPG roots in order to chase Sony’s more action-focused, blockbuster vision -- a style that Sony itself is taking a step back from as it explores the unpredictable world of live service games.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
