Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II review: war is what you make of it By Billy Givens Close $69.99 Gorgeous visuals Strong multiplayer overall Fun new modes Neat third-person mode Uneven campaign Poor UI A few dud maps Based on its name alone, the rebooted Call of Duty: Modern Warfare had an exceptionally high bar to clear when it launched in 2019. While it may not have had the same impact on the industry as the original did nearly two decades ago, it at least capitalized on a well of nostalgia and embraced the franchise’s roots again in a way that gave me hope for the future.
Tedious campaign Fun but uneven multiplayer Fresh perspective Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II , by comparison, is a more mixed bag, with its two major components very much at odds with each other. Its soulless campaign feels familiar without ever being half as memorable as the games it’s trying to replicate, but its multiplayer is mostly successful at bringing all of the usual thrills alongside a couple of cool tricks up its sleeve. Whether it’s worth the asking price comes down to what you’re hoping to get out of a Call of Duty game.
Is Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 cross-platform? All status effects in Lies of P and how to cure them Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III trailer teases a No Russian reimagining Tedious campaign While they rarely strive to be high art, I’ve been thoroughly engrossed in the narratives in most of Call of Duty’s recent campaigns.
Vanguard from 2020 told an affecting tale of a ragtag group of soldiers who reflected on their individual pasts as they underwent Nazi interrogations during World War II, and 2019’s Modern Warfare did a decent job of examining morality and the long-term effects of war. It’s rather sad, then, that Modern Warfare II ‘s campaign doesn’t feature much beyond a bombardment of military jargon, characters with superficial motives, and a whole lot of nothing to say.
Picking up a few years after the first game, Modern Warfare II once again brings back beloved series mainstays like Captain Price, Simon “Ghost” Riley, and John “Soap” MacTavish, who find themselves entangled with multiple groups of friends and foes as they attempt to track a terrorist who has stolen American-made missiles. The production values and acting are remarkable across the board, but with so many characters from various factions crammed into a shallow five-hour campaign , we’re never provided with enough time with any one of them to care about where they’ve ended up when the credits roll.
I just wish the campaign had been as much fun to play as it was to look at.
While I didn’t care much about the events happening during the otherwise dull cutscenes, I was immensely impressed by the sheer quality of the visuals that accompanied them. The last few games were graphical showcases themselves, but Modern Warfare II is in a league of its own, packing some of the most realistic environments and character models I’ve ever seen in a video game. Even better, that largely carries over into the missions as well. I was often in awe of the game’s staggering attention to detail — so much so that a short segment tasking me with engaging in a bit of misdirection in the streets of Amsterdam was so visually captivating that I spent more time sightseeing than I did actually completing the mission.
I just wish the campaign had been as much fun to play as it was to look at. There are standout moments, such as a tense section that had me rapidly escaping enemy soldiers down the side of a mountain, and forced me to stop at certain intervals to stand my ground and push them back. There’s the familiar sniping mission here too, and it encourages more creativity than usual by giving players the option to move around a large area to reposition for perfect shots. But for every one of these thoughtfully designed operations, there are three that simply fail to measure up to similar sequences from previous games.
Image used with permission by copyright holder While most of the missions are merely forgettable but inoffensive affairs, there are downright dreadful chunks of the game with underdeveloped ideas that bring down the whole adventure significantly. One asked me to leap from vehicle to vehicle during a lengthy chase, but due to the janky process of climbing up and jumping over, I’d be surprised if any but the luckiest of folks are likely to complete it without at least a few pointless deaths. Another needlessly protracted mission forced me to survive injured and unarmed by finding materials to craft tools that can be used to break through locked doors or distract and kill soldiers. That should’ve made for an exciting slice of stealth-based fun. Instead, the slow movement caused by my character’s injury coupled with the bare-bones crafting mechanics produced little more than a cumbersome half-hour of wasted potential in a campaign that already felt like it, too, was limping toward its finale.
Fun but uneven multiplayer Many multiplayer fans consider the second entry of the original Modern Warfare trilogy to rank among the greatest first-person shooters of all time, thanks to its stellar maps, simple but effective loadout system, and the introduction of multiple customization options that have become the norm in every game since. This new take on Modern Warfare II doesn’t reinvigorate the franchise in that same way, but even with a few blemishes, it still makes a solid case for being part of your multiplayer rotation.
There are a scattering of new ideas added to the mix this year, such as the ability to hang from ledges — useful for some sneaky pistol kills — and a reworked perk system. The latter introduces perk packages in place of individual perk selection, so you start with two and unlock two more at regularly timed intervals throughout a match or by getting kills and assists. It seems like a truly unnecessary change, but I’ve been too annoyed by the awful mobile-like UI to really even care much about making in-depth changes to my loadouts anyways. Cluttered pages of massive, bubbly buttons make the entire experience so user-unfriendly that even inviting friends to a lobby can be an exhausting process, let alone trying to figure out much else.
Modern Warfare II ‘s maps are a notable step up in quality over the last few installments … Once you manage to get into a match, though, things fare much better. Freshly added modes Knockout and Prisoner Rescue are great, though I’ve consistently preferred the latter, which pits two teams against each other to either rescue or protect a prisoner. You can’t respawn when dying in a round in either of the two new modes, but any living teammate can find your collapsed body and resurrect you at the same place you were gunned down, which can lead to some extraordinary comebacks. Nothing is quite as exciting as being the last man standing against a full team and sneaking around reviving teammates until you’ve rebuilt a crew to push back and pull off a glorious victory.
It helps that many of Modern Warfare II ‘s maps are a notable step up in quality over the last few installments, with interesting locations across Mexico and the Middle East that are both visually appealing and satisfying to learn. The best of these seem to understand that Call of Duty has, at its heart, always functioned best as a run-and-gun shooter. Farm 18, Embassy, and Mercado Las Almas are great examples of this design philosophy, providing more traditional layouts that give you plenty of opportunities for close-quarters showdowns. The game’s potent selection of assault rifles and SMGs work wonderfully here, and even shotgun enthusiasts can make quick work of enemy teams by sticking to the tighter corridors and interiors.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s unfortunate that the maps that miss the mark tend to miss it by miles, such as the desert battlefield found in Taraq, which is filled with leveled buildings and wide-open areas with no clear flow whatsoever and spawn points that leave you immediately vulnerable. Elsewhere, Santa Sena Border Crossing may very well be the worst map in franchise history, placing you in what is effectively a single lane filled with dozens of crashed vehicles that facilitates the worst kind of camping. Playing on either of these is so aggressively unpleasant that it can sap the joy out of a lobby of pals in a heartbeat.
It’s worth noting that, while it’s not as pervasive as in the last few games, even some of the best maps still pack excessive entry points and clutter that lend a feeling of blind luck to some deaths. Interior mazes full of doors, windows, and other openings can yield too many sightlines to keep up with, so without eyes in the back of your head, opponents frequently have an opportunity to pick you off from an angle you can’t reasonably account for at any given moment. Of course, how much impact this has on your enjoyment depends entirely on whether you’re seeking a laid-back or competitive experience. I’m positive that plenty of map studying and spawn knowledge would help alleviate at least some of this frustration for those competing at higher levels than this aging casual player.
Fresh perspective Perhaps the most intriguing addition to Modern Warfare II is the third-person mode. As someone who has gravitated toward other third-person games like Fortnite and Rogue Company in recent years, this new mode has been easy to pick up, and I dig the different type of strategy it brings. Having an expanded view of my surroundings — particularly the ability to see around corners before running into the fray — means that I die less from people hunkered down peeking over cover, for instance. But on the flip side, this perspective also breeds a different kind of camper who plays passively down corridors as you run in their direction and then immediately guns you down due to their ability to see you before you see them.
Image used with permission by copyright holder My friend group and I started third-person mode with high hopes of it becoming our go-to, but within a couple of days, we had mostly switched to the normal playlists again. This is partially due to the prevalence of the aforementioned corner camping alongside the fact that the game doesn’t feel inherently designed around the mode in general — because it’s not. More importantly, playing in third-person is only available via a mosh pit, meaning it rotates through three modes at random, any one of which you may or may not be in the mood to play at the time. I’d prefer to see future iterations embrace the mode fully and give players the freedom to engage with it how we see fit. Even so, it’s a really cool diversion and one that I’m likely to revisit off and on throughout the next year.
Modern Warfare II ‘s final offering is the inclusion of three cooperative Spec Ops missions that allow two friends to link up and complete objectives in larger, more open-ended maps in an effort to earn a total of three stars on each. This trio of assignments doesn’t really add anything substantial to the package and shouldn’t be seen as a primary selling point for those looking for cooperative options, but if you’re just wanting a simple time shooting baddies with a pal, you could do worse.
To be fair, “you could do worse” feels like Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II ‘s vibe as a whole. It’s a fairly enjoyable way to spend your time, but no one’s buying a Call of Duty game to see something they haven’t seen before, after all.
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II was reviewed on PlayStation 5.
Editors' Recommendations Where to find planes in Fortnite OG Is Lords of the Fallen cross-platform? How to access the Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 beta Activision teases Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III’s biggest improvements Does Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 have Hardcore mode? Game Reviews Microsoft Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Xbox Xbox One Gaming Activision has confirmed a November 10 release date for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III with a teaser trailer following a barrage of leaks.
The shooter, which is going to be a direct sequel to 2022's Modern Warfare II, was the subject of lots of reports and leaks prior to this announcement. Reports from Bloomberg revealed that this game was originally going to be a Modern Warfare II expansion, but it later got upgraded to a full game. Then, over the summer, more game details started to leak before some Monster Energy advertisements revealed the game's title prematurely. Activision coyly acknowledged this leak on Twitter at the time, but finally pulled the curtain back on the project today with a video titled "Modern Warfare III is Coming." Modern Warfare III is Coming It begins with some green soundwaves on-screen and a lot of radio chatter in the background. Then, the soundwaves turn from green to red before the perspective then pushes into them, creating a trippy red void. In there, we briefly see waveform images of a snake and Captain Price before he says, "Never bury your enemies alive" over the silhouette of a new character. This is believed to be Vladimir Makarov, the villain of the original Modern Warfare trilogy, who was teased in the post-credit scene for last year's campaign. After all of that, the title Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III is confirmed, as is the release date of November 10.
This date falls right in line with the late October to early November window in which Call of Duty games usually come out. It also places its launch after Microsoft's Activision Blizzard acquisition is expected to be complete, so it looks like this may be the first Call of Duty game released under Microsoft. Other than that date, official details on the game are fairly scarce. Thankfully, we shouldn't have to wait too much longer to learn more.
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III launches on November 10.
Gaming Your performance in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 has a lot to do with the weapon you come equipped with. Sure, a skilled player can excel with most weapons in the game, but having the best firearm for any given situation will lead you to more victories -- regardless of your playstyle. Modern Warfare 2 has around 50 primary weapons across seven categories, each with different stats, strengths, and weaknesses.
The meta in Call of Duty games shifts constantly as weapons are added and tweaked, so it's always a good idea to stay on top of the latest updates. In this guide, we'll rank each primary weapon in Modern Warfare 2 across all categories (with the exception of the Riot Shield). This ranking is in descending order, with the first spot being the best and the last spot being the worst. We'll also link to loadout guides for the weapons on this list so you know exactly which attachments to use.
Assault rifles Gaming It looks like Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III will be the title of this year's Call of Duty game. Following several leaks, including an undeniable one connected to Monster Energy, a joking tweet from the official Call of Duty Twitter account appears to confirm that this is true.
Leaks suggesting that 2023's Call of Duty game is Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III have existed for months, but ramped up recently. On July 17, the Call of Duty Twitter account put up tweets asking if Operators, weapons, and bundles from Modern Warfare II should carry over to this year's game and teasing that a big reveal would happen alongside the unveiling of Season 5. Later that day, Bloomberg's Jason Schreier stated that this is a Sledgehammer Games-led project that started as an expansion and morphed into a full game.
Then, Monday morning, images of Monster Energy promotional materials connected to Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III emerged on Twitter, giving us confirmation of the name and our first look at the game's logo.
A leak like this is pretty difficult to deny, so Activision decided to play along with it. "Whew. Mondays," the official Call of Duty account tweeted. "Anyone have an energy drink they can spare?" While not a traditional, explicit announcement, this tweet confirms the validity of the Monster Energy leak and affirms that this year's Call of Duty will be a direct follow-up to 2022's Modern Warfare II. Now, we'll just have to wait and see when Activision decides to officially reveal more about Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III itself.
Because it's not officially announced yet, we don't know what Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III's release date or launch platforms are. Still, it's likely that it will launch across PC, PlayStation, and Xbox sometime this October or November after Microsoft's Activision Blizzard acquisition closes.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
