Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Control: Ultimate Edition unlocks the PS5 and Xbox Series X’s true potential By Tom Caswell Close Control: Ultimate Edition is out now and PlayStation Plus subscribers can get it for free starting today. I have found it to be one of the most substantial next-gen conversions that takes full advantage of the latest technologies such as ray-tracing and the PlayStation’s DualSense controller. It also eliminates annoying bugs that plagued the launch of the original game, such as the frustrating stutter when exiting the pause menu.
The poster child for ray-tracing The best DualSense haptics since Astro Bot The poster child for ray-tracing When Control initially launched on PC, it was held up as a prime example of the visual possibilities ray-tracing can bring to a game, adding unparalleled depth that was graphically impossible on older technologies. With the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X ‘s upgrade, that is now the case for ray-tracing on console.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Control takes place almost entirely in the Oldest House, the headquarters for the Federal Bureau of Control. The space is filled with windowed offices, reflective tiles, and otherworldly lighting. This environment is ripe to show off the capabilities of ray-tracing, which provides true-to-life reflections and shadows. Finding myself in the middle of a firefight in one of the clusters of offices, I’m not only seeing enemies through the glass windows, I’m seeing the reflection of the environment around me. Since the lighting is happening in real time, other windows are then reflected as well, the reflections bouncing off of them doubled up in the glass facing me directly, creating an almost infinite loop of reflections.
Leaked Xbox controller could fix the most underwhelming thing about the Series X PS5 and Xbox Series X need to show us what they’re capable of in 2023 You can now customize your Xbox Elite Series 2 controller with Design Lab We obviously see this in the real world anytime we’re in a highly reflective environment, but to witness it in a game is breathtaking. That’s something I never thought I’d say regarding a virtual office space.
Control already had incredible physics, with supernatural bullets shattering the glass into a thousand pieces and tearing up any objects in their path, and they pair excellently with these visual enhancements to make it one of the most immersive gaming experiences I’ve ever played around in.
The next-gen upgrade allows players to forego ray-tracing in favor of 60 frames per second for those that like to focus on performance over graphics. I’ve been incredibly impressed by the performance modes in next-gen titles. While the PS4 Pro or Xbox One X felt like they sacrificed too much in resolution to hit higher fps, the PS5 and Series X have been able to maintain clarity and instead sacrifice ray-tracing benefits. While ray-tracing is outstanding in a game like Spider-Man: Miles Morales , having Miles zip around the city in 60 fps just felt right, moving too fast to really catch the city’s reflection as he swung by a skyscraper.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In Control , 60 fps feels fantastic, and the simulated lighted reflections do a good job in moments to still provide great textures. But there are certain times where the game feels incredibly flat compared to it running with ray-tracing, so I think that for most people, capping the game at 30 fps and turning on those real-time reflections is going to be the best way to experience Control.
The best DualSense haptics since Astro Bot A feature that proved to be more than a gimmick at the launch of the next-gen systems was the haptic feedback in the PS5’s DualSense controller , with every first party title from Sony and a handful of third party games taking tremendous advantage of the improved vibrations. The standout game for many was Astro’s Playroom , a pack-in title for the system that showcased the true breadth of what was possible with the DualSense: The pitter-patter of rain on Astro’s head, the overwhelming rumble of intense winds, and the tension in the triggers when using a springy frog costume. While other games certainly had excellent implementations of the controller’s haptics, none came close to the execution in Astro’s Playroom.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Control on the PS5 is the game that comes closest. As the lead character Jesse runs through the FBC, the rumble in the controller changes depending on whether she is stepping on carpet, tile, or concrete. The tension of the triggers alters depending on which weapon is selected, and you are given powerful, varied vibrations when using Jesse’s force abilities. I found myself just getting stuck in the middle of a cluster of enemies to dispatch them with the psychic push, rather than playing it safe and taking them out with my gun, because I simply could not get enough of the haptic feedback.
I look forward to unlocking further powers to see how they differentiate, and I urge players to consider playing the game on PS5 over Xbox Series X with how satisfying the haptics are. With the game being free this month on PlayStation Plus, there’s a huge incentive to do so anyway.
Editors' Recommendations The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X PlayStation reveals new features and UI for its PS5 Access Controller Fallout 4’s PS5 and Xbox Series X upgrade launches for free in 2023 PS5 DualSense Edge controller launches in January, but it’ll cost you $200 Sony reveals customizable PS5 DualSense Edge controller Features Features Gaming If you've been hoping to customize your PS5 DualSense controller, you're in luck. Scuf Gaming, a company known for creating high-end third-party gear, has released a new customization tool for its Reflex controller. PS5 owners can use an Xbox Design Lab-like tool to create their ideal gamepad, complete with custom parts.
Scuf's standard Reflex is perhaps the closest thing the PS5 has to an Xbox Elite Series 2. The controller features mappable back paddles, grips, interchangeable thumbsticks, and more. The company's newly released builder tool gives players a level of customization that's yet to be seen in Sony's DualSense.
Gaming PC gamers no longer have to update their PS5 DualSense controller solely on their PlayStation 5. Sony announced that the controller can now get firmware updates when it's plugged into the PC.
Sony set up a page that gives detailed instructions on how players can update their PS5 controller through PC without any issues. First and foremost, you'll need a Windows PC that runs on Windows 10 or Windows 11 in order to perform the updates. This might be due to the fact that the company has ported PS4 and PS5 games over to Steam and the Epic Games Store over the last couple of years, and most PC games run on Windows instead of Mac.
Gaming It's been a strange year for consoles. Despite the popularity of the PlayStation 5 and the Xbox Series X, both of which had their first anniversaries this week, few consumers have been able to get their hands on one thanks to chip shortages and manufacturing delays caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite talk of the exclusive, high-tech features like ray-tracing that these consoles can deliver, developers and publishers have been forced to publish their games on both PS5/Series X and the last-generation PS4 and Xbox One in order to reach a larger audience. Despite both of these consoles being a year old, some are still referring to the PS5 and the Series X as "next-gen," and there are very few true exclusives for either platform.
In the middle of all this mayhem sits the Nintendo Switch, a four-year-old console that's still going strong despite its age. The Switch was also caught up in manufacturing delays and chip shortages, but because it has been on the market longer, the delays didn't make quite as much of a splash.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
