Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Final Fantasy XVI review: spectacular highs and lows in an uneven epic By Giovanni Colantonio Close $70.00 Strong opening Excellent combat Incredible Eikon battles Impressive visuals Uneven story Disappointing character arcs Dull sidequests Shallow RPG systems Clive Rosfield has a problem.
Final Fantasy XVI ’s broody hero is desperate to start a new life, one unburdened by the mistakes and trauma of his bloody childhood. No matter how hard he tries, though, he can’t fully escape the history weighing him down like an airship’s anchor. He’s not the only one struggling with that; one of his companions, Jill, is fighting that same battle.
Video review Game of Crystals Eikonic action Split priorities “I want to live on my own terms,” she tells Clive midway through their adventure, “but first I must come to terms with my past.” The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond It’s a line that sticks with me as I play through Final Fantasy XVI , a game dealing with its own version of that identity crisis. Square Enix’s latest charts a new future for the long-running RPG franchise, confidently stepping into a more cinematic, action-packed territory that’s all the rage in Western video games these days. However, it can’t fully divorce itself from that past; its RPG instincts are still in its blood. Those two directions clash within the uneven fantasy epic like two towering summons duking it out.
Final Fantasy XVI delivers on the “action” side of its action-RPG formula. A fierce and fast-paced combat system makes for the series’ most exciting stab at real-time swordplay yet, while its blockbuster Eikon fights rank among some of gaming’s most awe-inspiring battles. But there’s a general flatness surrounding those exhilarating highs, as shallow RPG hooks and dated design leave a promising evolution for the series stuck in the past.
Video review Game of Crystals Set on the isolated continent of Valisthea, Final Fantasy XVI chronicles the story of its hero, Clive Rosfield, over several decades. In the first leg of his story, Clive is a bright-eyed young adult with a lot of responsibility: His royal family has sworn him to protect his younger brother, Joshua, who is the living embodiment of the Phoenix. The gripping opening act ends in tragedy, paving the way for a dark revenge story that almost plays out like Kill Bill with godlike “Eikons” (or summons, as we’ve known them in previous installments) in place of assassins.
The story works best when operating at its farthest extremes. The personal story of Clive trying to move on from a failure that defined his childhood gives the journey lots of thematic weight, asking how we move on and reclaim our lives after trauma. On the other hand, its enormous Eikons make for exciting self-mythology, turning long-running Final Fantasy staples like Ifrit and Shiva into genuine Gods. It’s a Greek myth seen through the lens of Hollywood blockbusters and inventive RPG worldbuilding.
A promising setup … fights for screen time with dull quests and indistinguishable characters … It’s the space in between those two ideas that Final Fantasy XVI struggles in most — and that’s unfortunately where most of the story takes place. After around eight hours of following Clive’s quest for revenge, the narrative takes a left turn to dig into a grander, but more drab story about Valisthea’s warring kingdoms and the giant mothercrystals that rule over them. The development team behind the game hasn’t been shy about explaining how Game of Thrones shaped the story , and that shows. If you couldn’t see the influence in long soliloquies about political conflicts, you’ll certainly see it in the tired tropes it hoists upon its few, embarrassingly handled female characters.
It doesn’t help that Final Fantasy XVI has a dull approach to storytelling, with the bulk of its worldbuilding done through long conversations with dead-eyed NPCs. Sidequests especially strike out on that front, delivering dull content that seems uncharacteristically weak for a team that’s responsible for the beloved Final Fantasy XIV.
 The glut of side stories here are as by the books as they come, repeating the same few mission structures that herd Clive from NPC to NPC. Close to a dozen of the sidequests simply ask me to talk to someone, speak to three NPCs stiffly standing around a town, and then go back to the quest-giver for more lore. Others have me fast-traveling somewhere to fight a battle that’s sometimes over in as little as 30 seconds before throwing me into another lengthy chat. Rinse, repeat.
Square Enix What’s often lacking is a diversity of thought, and that’s something that’s even reflected in its characters. In the lead-up to the game’s launch, reporters pressed the game’s creative team about the fact that Valisthea seemed to only be populated by white people.
 Producer Naoki Yoshida explained the decision, noting that despite being a fictional nation, it was very much based on European history. That reasoning doesn’t entirely add up in the final project considering that one of its kingdoms draws from Africa for design inspiration. But even if you buy that as a sensible explanation, it doesn’t explain why nearly every character I meet has the same body type and speaks in the same monotone, English droll. There’s little personality to the game’s cast, which makes it hard to differentiate its flat characters from one another.
That’s ultimately where the story loses me. A promising setup that expertly contrasts the personal with the mythological fights for screen time with dull quests and indistinguishable characters that at times feel like Square Enix sneaking some of its AI testing in to pad out the runtime with filler. As a character told me during one subquest, “If no one is listening to what you have to say, you may as well not say it.” Eikonic action While the story is uneven, its action is much more consistent. For nearly two decades, the Final Fantasy series has experimented with how to fully transition its turn-based RPG combat to a modern real-time action system.
Final Fantasy XV and Stranger of Paradise: Final Fantasy Origin would try to push that further with middling results, while Final Fantasy VII Remake would start to crack at a satisfying system that still paid tribute to the series’ turn-based roots.
Final Fantasy XVI offers the most confident approach to hack-and-slash combat we’ve seen from the series yet.
In addition to some basic sword combos and a dash, Clive can equip three different sets of magic, which can be mixed and matched. For instance, wind magic is largely built around fast aerial attacking, while Earth magic has him winding up heavy attacks with a bit of button timing. Each magic set has two attack slots and they operate on a short cooldown, bringing in a bit of the development team’s MMO expertise.
 With six spells to rotate between at any given time, Clive can chain together flashy attacks at a quick pace that make him control more like Dante from Devil May Cry than Cloud.
Square Enix That system is further deepened by each magic set’s unique power, which can really let players build a playstyle that fits them. With fire magic equipped, pressing circle will cause Clive to dash forward, letting him close the gap on enemies and follow up with that magic set’s more close-ranged skills. Earth, on the other hand, turns circle into a block button that can parry enemy attacks when timed right. That leaves a safe window for Clive to charge up and land those slower rock attacks. I spent a lot of time during my journey trying to find the right mix of magic sets and skills that would all synergize with one another, letting me perform all six of my spells in one astonishing chain.
Some of the game’s flat design decisions do impact that strong system. Missions tend to repeat the same few enemy types and even recycle bosses with relative frequency, especially in side missions. Not a lot of enemies outside of optional, high-tier bounties require much strategy to beat. I mostly spammed spells the same way during just about every fight, with no need to switch things up. There’s a good reason that some of the best character-action games wrap up in 10 hours. Still, combat is so stylish and enjoyable that I’m rarely upset about getting more opportunities to see how fast I can get a big enemy’s stagger bar down.
Almost every Eikon battle here could be a candidate for one of the top 10 best video game bosses of all time.
The most extraordinary piece of its combat, though, comes from its Eikon brawls. Throughout the story, Clive awakens his own inner demon and goes toe-to-toe with kaiju-sized monsters in jaw-dropping cinematic battles. These fights make up all of Final Fantasy XVI ’s best and most varied moments. An opening fight against Ifrit has me controlling Phoenix in a Panzer Dragoon -like shoot-’em-up. A later fight with Titan has me zipping around a halfpipe like Sonic the Hedgehog , avoiding flying boulders along the way — and that’s just one phase of an epic, ever-changing 30-minute encounter.
Each battle tells its own unique saga through spectacular action, showing that the creative team has a true gift for visual storytelling. Were this a focused 10-hour action game that mostly built up to that handful of fights, it would be one of the series’ crowning achievements. But there’s 40 more hours of game around that … and it isn’t nearly as gripping.
Split priorities Playing Final Fantasy XVI , I get the sense that I can feel exactly where the project’s budget went. Those incredible Eikon battles, presented with some of the most astonishing visuals we’ve seen on the PlayStation 5 to date (though not without some performance hiccups), stand in sharp contrast to dated characters and barren world design. That last part is especially a drag, as all major quests take place in completely linear areas that reuse assets from empty room to empty room. The more open-field areas don’t fare much better, as there’s virtually no reason to explore an area’s nooks and crannies. It’s just extra space that’s barren until the right subquest triggers, giving the illusion of exploration. A lot of these problems were sticking points of Final Fantasy VII Remake , but the problem is worsened here.
If it didn’t have a beloved brand attached, would the project have nearly the same gravitas? The more I played, the more I began to question why so little was engaging me outside of Eikon battles. Not too long into my journey, I’d find that a lot of my problems came back to one thing: shallow RPG hooks. Though Final Fantasy XVI is being positioned as an action-RPG, the latter half of that genre hybrid is severely overstated. There’s leveling up, stats, and a few equipment slots, but a lot of its systems are a placebo hiding an entirely restrictive approach to power. For instance, Clive has six stats, but look closely and you’ll realize that three of those aren’t really stats at all. Strength, for instance, is actually just Clive’s attack stat combined with an extra buff he’s getting from equipped gear. It’s smoke and mirrors that hides the fact that Clive’s power progression is fairly static from start to finish.
That idea is present in all of its systems and they weaken several other aspects of the game as a result. For instance, Clive can buy, forge, and upgrade new weapons to increase his power and defense throughout the game. There’s not really much choice here, though. There’s always one sword or belt that is objectively better than everything else available at that moment. There’s no reason to spend much gold or waste the glut of resources Clive earns throughout the story. By the end of the game, I ended up with more money and materials than I could ever hope to spend. And guess what the reward for exploring fields or completing those dull sidequests usually are: gold and crafting resources.
Square Enix So what reason am I given to engage with most of the content here? With a constant war chest of gold and hundreds of fangs that I will never have a reason to use, much of the game ends up feeling like busy work. I did every sidequest out of the same brain addiction that has me checking off map activities in open-world games I don’t even enjoy. Only 10 or so sidequests actually yield any reward worth obtaining, like chocobo riding or increased potion capacity, so why bother with the rest just to get more dry worldbuilding that grinds the story’s momentum to a halt? It’s all air in the potato chip bag.
Large parts of Final Fantasy XVI feel like they were designed more out of obligation than anything. It’s as if the developers wanted to make a pure character action game, but feared that it would be a drastic change that longtime fans couldn’t accept. It all makes for a game that at once feels like a bold new future for the series and a dated step back that plays like 2010’s Nier minus the ahead-of-its-time storytelling that’s allowed it to live on as a cult classic.
Considering how lukewarm — hostile, even — players have been on some of Square Enix’s original IP in the past year, all of this has me running a series of “what if” scenarios through my head. If it didn’t have a beloved brand attached, would the project have nearly the same gravitas? Or would it float by like The Diofield Chronicles before it? I keep trying to picture what the conversation would be right now if this was revealed on a Sony State of Play with the title Eikonic Legacy instead of Final Fantasy XVI.
 I could care less about whether or not this is a “true” Final Fantasy game; the only thing that’s consistent about the series is its shapeshifting nature, after all. By that same token, though, I can only judge this form entirely on its own terms. And regardless of its title and the legacy it holds, this installment is rife with structural issues that I can’t wipe away with brand name nostalgia.
Square Enix Despite these grievances, I do think there’s a bright future for the series in this reworked format. The world of Valisthea is rich with intriguing mythology, the strong combat system makes up for some of the customization lost in the weak RPG hooks, and almost every Eikon battle here could be a candidate for one of the top 10 best video game bosses of all time. Just as Clive yearns to close the book on his past and start anew, I hope Final Fantasy can do the same and evolve into a confident, focused action game unburdened by any expectations attached to the series or its RPG label.
Let the Phoenix die, for it will always rise again anew.
Final Fantasy XVI was reviewed on a PS5 hooked up to a TCL 6-Series R635.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 exclusives The best PS5 games for 2023 PS5 slim vs. PS5: everything you need to know about the new PS5 model Best PS5 deals: Cheapest prices and all the PS5 bundles you can buy Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming Sony Interactive Entertainment President and CEO Jim Ryan is retiring after 30 years. The PlayStation boss will formally leave his role in March 2024 with a successor yet to be named.
Jim Ryan has been working with PlayStation since 1994 when he joined Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe. Since then, he's become the key figurehead for the PlayStation brand, similar to Phil Spencer's role within Xbox. His most recent success has come from the launch of the PlayStation 5, which has already surpassed a 40 million unit milestone. Today, Sony announced that Ryan plans to retire from the role.
Gaming The sequel to Final Fantasy VII Remake, titled Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, continues to show just as much promise as its predecessor. The game was shown off once more during today’s PlayStation State of Play in a new trailer that also confirmed the release date.
So, to tell you what you probably came here for: Final Fantasy VII Rebirth launches on February 29, 2024. It's a PS5 exclusive that you can buy a physical copy of. A Twin Pack that includes both Rebirth and Final Fantasy VII Remake Intergrade for PS5 is also available for preorder digitally. This was all revealed at the end of an entertaining new trailer for the game.
Gaming There's no shortage of discounts for PlayStation 5 games among retailers, with some of the offers involving our favorite PS5 games. It may look like a daunting task to narrow down your choice for your next PS5 game purchase, but we're here to help you out. We've rounded up some of the best PS5 game deals, and if you see a deal that you like, you have to click that Buy Now button immediately as some of these discounts won't last long. All of the games below appear on our list of the best PS5 games for 2023.
Deathloop — $25, was $60 If you're looking for a shooter game that blurs the line between single player and multiplayer, try out Deathloop, created by the same studio that made Dishonored. Played from a main story perspective, it could almost feel like a pure assassin murder simulator, with many targets to find. Of course, there would still be a big catch thrown into the mayhem: somebody is out there trying to kill you. And that's where multiplayer comes in! Invade others' games and try to end their day before they knock out their target or, if you allow multiplayer, add a whole new layer of difficulty to the campaign playthrough.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
