Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Ghost of Tsushima review: Finding peace in a violent world By Lisa Marie Segarra Close $59.99 Stellar storytelling Massively interactive open world Well-executed combat Unique tasks and side quests Awkward movement mechanics Ghost of Tsushima effortlessly combines solid swordplay with a compelling story.
A world of wonder A truly cinematic game Gut-punching combat Open world, closed book A philosophy lesson disguised as a game Our take This new open-world RPG, exclusive to the PlayStation 4, takes samurai Jin Sakai on a daunting quest as he retakes his home island of Tsushima from the Mongols. His story is an interesting one, and it would be easy for developer Sucker Punch to use Ghost’s style as an excuse to phone in the mechanics. Instead, the game offers one of the best sword combat systems in recent memory.
Where to find Republic Chests in Fortnite Ghost of Tsushima Legends: Rivals mode tips and tricks Ghost of Tsushima Director’s Cut: All Winds of Iki puzzle solutions Ghost isn’t quite perfect, but my gripes pale in comparison to the joy I felt while playing the game.
It, along with The Last of Us Part II , allows the PlayStation 4 to go out with a bang. Both games exemplify the best of late-generation titles, though in very different ways.
Photo courtesy of Sony A world of wonder The island of Tsushima is an open-world marvel.
The world feels truly open, as you can enter each building, climb rooftops, and explore without fatigue.
The world shows off varying landscapes, from rolling fields to snowcapped mountains. The varied environments feel very reminiscent of Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild , but Ghost goes a bit further. The world feels truly open as you can enter each building, climb their rooftops, and explore without fatigue. Every mountain is scalable, and often worth climbing. The game offers supplies and collectibles throughout the landscape, along with small bands of enemies you can take down to improve your standing.
Ghost of Tsushima includes small tasks to improve individual stats, which felt well-incorporated into the game. You can compose haikus or meditate on specific issues, for example.
All of this made exploration, which some open-world games turn into a chore, into a key pillar of the game. You can experience the game in full without feeling rushed to get on with the main story.
Photo courtesy of Sony A truly cinematic game While traversing the world is magical, the game sometimes lacks environmental details. I was surprised to find I could walk straight through fully grown bamboo, giving a new meaning to the “ghost” of Tsushima. I understand that it makes travel less cumbersome, but added details, like bending the foliage away, would have felt more immersive.
Still, Ghost of Tsushima otherwise takes the idea of a “cinematic game” to a new level, drawing specific inspiration from cinematic auteur Akira Kurosawa. You have the option to turn up the contrast, or turn on Kurosawa mode, which aims to replicate the look of black-and-white samurai classics.
This visual setting is special, as it doesn’t just convert the picture to grayscale. The contrast is further heightened. Projectiles and foliage floating in the wind are multiplied. The sound mimics that of an action movie. It’s clear a lot of care was put into this setting.
Unfortunately, it’s not the most useful look for combat and much of gameplay, and I doubt you’d want to play the entire game with Kurosawa mode on (though it’s possible). Luckily, you can switch back and forth as you please, as the mode can be flicked on or off through a simple menu and doesn’t require that you reboot the game.
All of these features, combined with an already impressive world, are easily captured in Photo Mode. This feature is now common in console games with top-tier graphics, but Ghost of Tsushima offers more options than I’ve seen before.
On a more inclusive note, Ghost offers respectable (but not class-leading) accessibility options.
The Last of Us Part II sported many choices to make the game playable for gamers of varying abilities. It’s nice to see this kind of consideration again, though Ghost of Tsushima’s options are not as wide-rangi ng. These controls make it easier to press buttons in succession or tap once instead of holding a button. They also make it easier to see projectiles, for example. However , The Last of Us Part II has specific controls for different actions, and more customizable visual cues.
Photo courtesy of Sony Gut-punching combat I couldn’t spend all my time traveling or taking photos, and the gameplay and combat did not let me down.
Nailing parries, figuring out how to best an opponent in a duel, and pulling off combos all feel immensely rewarding. Most of the combat, especially early on, is of the sword-to-sword variety. Time a block right, and you’ll be able to parry an attack. As you progress in the game and take down Mongol leaders, you’ll unlock new stances that help you battle different enemy types. You will, however, see all types of enemies right from the start, so the beginning of the game is a bit more challenging than you might expect.
There are two main gauges to keep track of, your health meter, and your resolve. You gain resolve through parries and by defeating enemies, and it unlocks special attacks and weapons. Parrying is important, and you’ll likely rely on it more than in other games. Still, you can also roll or run away from an enemy, or get closer to strike the final blow.
Photo courtesy of Sony It’s possible to customize your gear and accessories to fit your preferred combat style, be it melee, ranged, or stealth. I spent plenty of time looking at upgrade charts to see what my weapons or armor could do, or what new abilities I could learn. I planned out my upgrade order meticulously based on my desires (melee all the way).
You can unlock charms by honoring shrines in the game. Hot springs will increase your maximum health, and performing a series of quick button presses at a bamboo stand will increase your resolve. You’ll unlock new weapons and armor by completing tales, which include the main story and side quests. To upgrade your gear, you’ll need to stock up on resources found in the world.
Differences in armor and gear are clearly marked, and you can easily switch weapons in battle. I was able to mix and match my experience, and I often found myself switching charms or outfits based on the task at hand.
Battle sequences are, for the most part, a highlight, but there’s nothing more frustrating than dodging an enemy blow only to roll away to nowhere because you’re on a slightly elevated platform. Plenty of games are more forgiving, and allow you to switch elevations, but no such luck here.
I did find the game to be rather easy. How easy of course depends on the player, but I personally spent 75% of the game on the hard setting. The game has only three options: Easy, medium, and hard. I started on medium to get through as much as possible, but I quickly found myself unchallenged. There isn’t a new game+ mode to unlock, either, though that could come later, similar the survival addition to Fallout 4.
Open world, closed book The story is less open than the world it’s in, but I’d argue that’s a good thing. Plenty of open-world games let players take liberties with how they want to go about things, but don’t back up their free-form aspirations with appropriate consequences.
Ghost of Tsushima gives players smaller choices, so their relatively small impact feels appropriate.
Still, I found myself trying to maximize my choices. When I learned it was against samurai code to assassinate an enemy rather than giving them a chance to fight back, I attempted to avoid using stealth. However, the game still chastised me for breaking code. Each opportunity I had, I took it as a chance to do what I thought was good or right, and I felt like I should be rewarded for it.
But Ghost of Tsushima had a different story to tell. I was initially frustrated, but once I realized I didn’t have control, I relaxed. I played based on whatever worked in the moment rather than what I thought the game wanted me to do.
Again, this linearity isn’t a fault. I found it made the story more impactful.
Ghost of Tsushima is focused. It tells one story, and tells it well.
You’ll find plenty of side quests, however, many of which are character-driven. I often find side quests tedious. Games like Fallout 4 and Death Stranding , with their unending load of tasks, left me especially jaded about straying from the main story for too long.
However, Ghost of Tsushima has finite side quests, and each is its own self-contained story. The missions feel unique rather than repetitive, and they helped shape the world around me. Non-player characters, regardless of how heavily featured they were in the main story, didn’t feel like pawns in the hero’s journey. It was easy to become invested in their stories.
The biggest letdown in Ghost of Tsushima is its facial animations. In a game so reliant on emotional scenes and a character-driven plot, these should have been polished. Instead, the facial animation work comes across as merely functional.
Photo courtesy of Sony A philosophy lesson disguised as a game Throughout these stories, Ghost of Tsushima asks the player a question. “What’s the right way to win a war?” It’s not about using your katana or your bow. How do you kill, and maintain honor? Jin grew up learning the ways of the samurai, to kill with honor by looking your foe in the eyes rather than stabbing him in the back, literally and figuratively. But the old methods aren’t working, and Jin starts to question whether it’s more honorable to uphold traditions or forgo them if fewer people die.
There’s a crucial moment where Jin asks one of his allies if they’ve crossed a line. The answer is ambiguous but hopeful: “If we have, we’re on the right side of it.” Ghost of Tsushima does little to glamorize war. Reminders of death and loss loom in every corner, and corpses dot the land. No one comes out unscathed. The invasion brings out the best in some but the worst in others.
It makes sense that you’re forced into introspection as you draft haikus and meditate in hot springs. You can’t decide how Jin’s story unravels, but you can choose how you view loss, destruction, and rebirth. You also get to determine how the haikus end, at the very least.
Jin asks one of his allies if he crossed a line. “If we have, we’re on the right side of it,” his ally answers.
The problems you run into aren’t always solved in a single side quest, and sometimes they’re not solved at all. There is a great deal of pain in Ghost of Tsushima, but there’s as much healing. After an area is liberated, for example, people start coming back to rebuild it. It feels great to see people return to normal everyday life after so much tragedy has occurred.
I saw characters who felt in their hearts that they could be good but didn’t know how yet. I saw others overcome by revenge, but pulled back from the brink. Ultimately, I saw the community of Tsushima come together. Simple farmers took up arms or used their unique skills to help in any way they could.
These things point to the dual nature of the game. On the one hand, it’s extremely violent. On the other hand, it’s mediative and thoughtful. That combination isn’t easy to pull off, and it’s what makes Ghost of Tsushima worth playing.
Our take Ghost of Tsushima is one of the be st games I’ve played this year — it might’ve been my favorite, if not for The Last Of Us Part II.
 Jin Sakai’s story is violent but thoughtful, delivering an experience that feels unique on the PlayStation 4 despite the fact 2020 is the console’s last year before the PlayStation 5 makes it obsolete.
Is there a better alternative? There’s nothing quite like Ghost of Tsushima.
There are a few new elements, but the game is more than just the sum of its parts. If you’re looking for other open-world games, the Fallout series or Breath of the Wild are good bets. But you can only get this story here.
How long will it last? I finished Ghost of Tsushima at just under 60 hours. In that time, I completed the entire main story, each side quest, and got most of the collectibles. I expect it’d take about 10 hours to find the rest of the game’s collectibles.
Should you buy it? Yes. Thereare several big new titles to round out this generation, like Cyberpunk 2077, but this is one PlayStation fans will surely keep in their back pockets as evidence of Sony’s dominance.
Editors' Recommendations Where to find planes in Fortnite OG Don’t expect a new Sly Cooper or Infamous game anytime soon, says Sucker Punch Ghost of Tsushima Director’s Cut: How to play the Hidden Grove Tournament on Iki Island Ghost of Tsushima: Iki Island all animal sanctuary locations Ghost of Tsushima Director’s Cut: Everything new on Iki Island Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming Ghost of Tsushima: Director's Cut made sure to include new Mythic Tales. Arguably one of the most interesting parts of the base game, Mythic Tales tell stories of Japanese folklore, sending Jin on epic quests to unlock legendary items. Gosaku's Armor and Tadayori's Armor are just two of many examples. New to Iki Island is the Sarugami Armor and The Legend of Black Hand Riku. Here's how to unlock the Sarugami Armor in Ghost of Tsushima: Director's Cut.
Ghost of Tsushima's multiplayer Legends mode getting stand-alone release Here's the full list of winners from the 2020 Game Awards The most-anticipated PlayStation 5 games of 2021 Gaming Jin Sakai is back and better than ever, thanks to the upgraded release of Ghost of Tsushima: Director's Cut. Aside from taking advantage of the PlayStation 5's hardware to improve visuals and performance, Sucker Punch went the extra mile by adding in an entirely new region with this expansion. Set on the titular Iki Island, Jin will have a new quest to complete that hits very close to home for this conflicted samurai-turned-ghost. Just like the main game, though, the main quest is just one part of what you can do on this brand new island.
Iki is home to all sorts of side content, including side quests, collectibles, and brand new challenges, like the Archery Challenges. These are sort of the companion to the bamboo challenges from the main game, only instead of testing your skills with the blade, you're given unique tests for your aim and speed with a bow. Completing the first will reward you with a brand new charm, and doing the subsequent challenges will further improve that charm's effects. Iki is a big place, so we'll guide you to each Archery Challenge location here.
Gaming Ghost of Tsushima: Director's Cut comes with a sake cart full of new content. Players will venture to Iki Island, where they'll dive deeper into the backstory of clan Sakai. They'll also gain access to several new abilities, mechanics, and challenges that will grow their legend further than the Ghost could have imagined. Archery Challenges are a new edition that has players testing their skills. Spread across Iki Island, these challenges are far more than aiming and shooting. Here's how to beat Archery Challenges in Ghost of Tsushima: Director's Cut.
Ghost of Tsushima's multiplayer Legends mode getting stand-alone release Ghost of Tsushima Director's Cut: 10 things to do first on Iki Island The best games to play after finishing Ghost of Tsushima Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
