Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Ghostwire: Tokyo review: Folklore becomes freak show By Giovanni Colantonio Close Creative use of folklore Excellent atmosphere Some stunning set pieces Standout sub-stories Thin combat Repetitive world activities Lacking in enemy variety At times, Ghostwire: Tokyo is unlike anything I’ve ever played. My jaw drops as I run through a hallway that wildly morphs around me as if it’s a space truly possessed by evil spirits. Other times, I’m wading through another map filled with busy work, anxiously waiting for that next scripted “wow” sequence.
Good cop, ghost cop All about atmosphere Stretched thin Our take Developed by Tango Gameworks, the studio that brought us The Evil Within , Ghostwire: Tokyo is a first-person action game that’s most notable for (likely) being the final Bethesda game on PlayStation.
 It fuses horror and fantasy to imagine an eerie version of the Shibuya section of Tokyo that’s haunted by spirits — both the helpful and hurtful kind. Tango borrows familiar tropes from your typical open-world shooter, but masks the more generic design touchstones in a layer of atmospheric weirdness.
Tokyo Game Show 2022 Capcom showcase: how to watch and what to expect Ghostwire Tokyo beginner’s guide: 6 tips and tricks to get started Everything we know about Ghostwire: Tokyo Ghostwire: Tokyo is at its best when it’s reimagining Japanese folklore in visually astonishing ways and delivering moving visualizations of what it’s like to pass on. It’s less compelling as a checkbox-driven open-world game, with limited content stretched too thin across its apocalyptic version of Shibuya.
Good cop, ghost cop Ghostwire: Tokyo is essentially a supernatural buddy cop story. When nearly everyone in Tokyo suddenly vanishes, a boy named Akito gets possessed by a detective named KK who infuses him with special powers. Stuck in the same body, the two must find the masked vigilante who caused the disappearance and stop him from performing a ritual involving Akito’s sister.
Calling it an “ open-world first-person shooter ” could technically be accurate, but it would be a surface-level descriptor. The clever thing about the game is that it’s deeply rooted in Japanese folklore, which makes tired ideas feel new at times. That isn’t just reflected in the story, but the mechanics too.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Combat, for instance, is built around magic instead of guns. Akito can shoot different elemental powers out of his hands through “spiritual weaving.” He uses quick wind blasts or shotgun-like water shots to expose a spirit’s core and yank it out with golden threads. The system draws inspiration from Japan’s take on wizards, Onmyōji, making players feel like a powerful sorcerer. Battles can feel limited, with only three magic types, a bow, and a few talismans that can be thrown to stun or block enemies. Still, it’s a novel concept that feels more exciting and tactile than firing another gun (especially when using the PS5’s DualSense controller and its adaptive triggers).
The folklore influence plays a more impactful role in its story and worldbuilding, with typical open-world tropes becoming more meaningfully implemented. Unfogging the map involves cleansing Torii Gates. Getting more magic ammo requires praying at a Jizo statue. Standard collectibles become gifts that can be sold to Nekomata, magical cats that run stalls throughout the city. There’s a spiritual justification to every act that made me want to stop playing and read about the mythology it’s based on.
It effortlessly bounces between drama and comedy, playfully engaging with the multifaceted nature of folktales.
While the main story can be a little convoluted, the sidequests make up the heart of the experience. Akito meets several wandering spirits through his quest that are unable to pass on. The game uses those moments to tell compact tales that can be dark, funny, and genuinely moving. One story involves a child piano prodigy unable to play the perfect version of Moonlight Sonata.
 Another revolves around a spirit stuck in a toilet stall who really needs some toilet paper. It effortlessly bounces between drama and comedy, playfully engaging with the multifaceted nature of folktales.
All about atmosphere Duality is central to the world of Ghostwire: Tokyo.
 It’s a game that balances old and new, serious and funny, spiritual and physical. Part of that comes from the setting itself. Tokyo is a modern city, but one that contains relics of the past right next to skyscrapers. That’s reflected in the game’s design, as players bounce between neon-drenched city streets and quiet shrines tucked away in alleyways.
Tango Gameworks has a lot of fun imagining what the aftermath of a mass disappearance would look like in that space. The streets are littered with outfits from vanished residents. Music is constantly playing out of abandoned buildings, with no one around to shut off the radio. If nothing else, Ghostwire: Tokyo stands out as an eerie atmosphere piece.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Considering the fact that Tango Gameworks was founded by Resident Evil creator Shiji Mikami, it’s no surprise that the game has some successful horror elements. Headless schoolchildren or faceless monsters who creep around with umbrellas are grade-A nightmare fuel. It rarely delves into outright jump scares, instead relying on a more visually haunting psychological horror.
That style especially shines in the game’s standout main missions. Akito often finds himself chasing a spirit through a series of possessed rooms that shift in remarkable ways. In one sequence, I run through a hallway as magazine cutouts skitter across the walls. Not too long after, I find myself walking over a bridge of umbrellas that float up in front of me as I move. They’re creatively stunning sequences that I haven’t seen done as well as this since the Scarecrow sequences in the Batman Arkham series.
If nothing else, Ghostwire: Tokyo stands out as an eerie atmosphere piece.
All of those creepy elements are nicely balanced with the game’s lighter tone.
 The game uses yōkai (i.e., spirits) like a cucumber-loving kappa to add some whimsy to its world. It would be easy to make a game about ghosts and spirits that turns off all the lights and tries to creep players out, but Ghostwire: Tokyo wants players to engage with the nuances of Japanese mythology. It can deliver creepy bedtime stories or playfully absurd tales, proving that there’s no reason a game can’t do both.
Stretched thin Ghostwire: Tokyo is a brisk game for what it is, clocking in at around 15 hours. Even at that length, there’s a sense that the developers are stretching to fill the time. The story itself is short, with repetitive open-world busywork making up most of the runtime. Whereas most games of the genre would fill the streets with activities, there’s only a few things to do here — and they get old fast.
Players will spend most of their time collecting spirits in paper dolls (katashiro) and depositing them in phone booths to gain experience points. I found myself spending hours at a time collecting souls and then making detours to find a payphone so I could unload them all and then store more. The loop gets tedious, feeling more like a compulsive distraction from the visually compelling story sequences.
I can feel a truly great eight-hour action game under the surface.
There aren’t many enemy types in the game either, which becomes apparent in the back half especially. Every mission or world activity tends to devolve into a wave defense game where players need to fend off the same monsters in different configurations. Boss fights are also disappointing across the board, as none of them really play with the magic system in any real way. Considering that the combat options are sparse, the game ends up feeling front-loaded with its more creative ideas.
I can feel a truly great eight-hour action game under the surface. There’s just a lot of padding that gets in the way of a potentially tight adventure. The game’s fourth chapter is especially momentum-killing, tasking players with cleansing a dozen gates back-to-back and leaving a potentially fun gameplay twist to a cutscene. Players could mainline the story much quicker and just get to the good stuff, but that would mean missing out on health upgrades, key skills that speed up battles, and more.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Ghostwire: Tokyo can feel at odds with itself at times — the one place where its duality feels unintentional. It’s a wildly creative game that takes visual and tonal leaps of the kind I’ve never really seen in a video game. But all of those fresh ideas are stuffed into a generic exploration game format where players squint at a map cluttered with icons. Even with that design conflict, though, I was at full attention anytime I spoke to a spirit about their problems. Games like this often want players to build their own narrative through play, but Ghostwire: Tokyo is a much better storyteller than I am an explorer.
Our take Ghostwire: Tokyo is a promising start for a creative new IP with lots to admire. It plays with Japanese folklore in a variety of ways, creating a strange, creepy, and often funny world. It’s only let down by middling exploration tropes that stretch its simple combat system and small enemy list too thin. Though its spirit-collecting loop can get tedious, the game shines anytime it drops its more compulsive hooks and tells some moving folktales about death, grief, and yōkai.
Is there a better alternative? It’s a bit of a unique game, so I’m not sure you’ll find a lot of first-person spellcasting games set in a spirit-filled city. That said, the Yakuza games feature comparably sized worlds and a similar balance of drama and comedy.
How long will it last? It took me just over 15 hours to beat the game, completing all but one or two sidequests. Committed players can try to collect every single spirit and item, which will take much longer.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you’re on the fence, wait until it inevitably hits Xbox Game Pass in a year, but it’s worth checking out the visually fun ways it plays with folklore.
Ghostwire: Tokyo was tested on a PlayStation 5 hooked up to a TCL 6-Series R635.
Editors' Recommendations Former PS5 exclusive Ghostwire: Tokyo Comes to Xbox Game Pass in April The best skills to unlock in Ghostwire: Tokyo A free Ghostwire: Tokyo prelude game is available right now Ghostwire: Toyko delayed to early 2022, citing developer health Deathloop, Ghostwire: Tokyo will still be PlayStation 5 timed exclusives Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Fallout 76, Rage 2, and a few titles set in the world of The Elder Scrolls have been holding down the fort for Bethesda since E3 2018 and the 2019 showcase was a chance for Pete Hines and crew to show what the next wave of games will look like. One of those new games is a brand new IP from Tango Gameworks, the team behind The Evil Within. While Ghostwire Tokyo isn’t a survival horror like The Evil Within, the cinematic trailer does betray a haunting art style.
Tango Gameworks Founder Shinji Mikami took the stage to announce Ghostwire Tokyo and he described it as a game where players rid a city of a supernatural evil. In the game’s version of Tokyo, people are vanishing and players will be investigating why. Ikumi Nakamura then took the stage to introduce the cinematic trailer for Ghostwire Tokyo. Nakamura was lead art designer for both The Evil Within 2 and she’s serving as Creative Director on this new game. The synopsis for Ghostwire Tokyo, taken from the official trailer published on YouTube, is as follows: Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
