Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Hitman 3 review: A satisfying conclusion to the trilogy By Tom Caswell Close $60.00 Intricate, textured locations Strong gameplay loop New mechanics to incentivize replay Missing difficulty customizations The “world of assassination” label has been the tagline of the current Hitman games starting with IO Interactive’s Hitman in 2016.
Hitman 3 is the final piece of that assassination puzzle, offering a satisfying conclusion to the trilogy with its grandest locations yet and the ability to experience any of the three games’ offerings.
Hitman 3’s locations are the star of the show The game is incredibly funny There should be further, customizable difficulties Our take However, while Hitman 3 provides some of the series’ most intricate scenarios, there are still a few features it lacks that prevent it from being the definitive stealth experience that it should be.
Ubisoft and more offer ways to play purchased Google Stadia games elsewhere Hitman 3 VR is coming to PC next year along with ray tracing Hitman 3’s first update brings new targets and escalation missions to the game Before diving in, I want to make it clear that I initially requested a PlayStation code in order the review the game, specifically for its VR component. PlayStation review codes were ultimately not made available to the press before the review embargo, and therefore we were not able to get hands on with the VR edition of Hitman 3.
 With the recent precedent of console codes not being made available before review embargoes lift having disastrous consequences , Digital Trends wants to offer full transparency to our readers as there’s no way to know how well the PSVR component works at launch.
Hitman 3’s locations are the star of the show In the very brief campaign for Hitman 3 , the wolves are closing in on Agent 47 as he and a handful of other operatives turn against their former employer, the International Control Agency, which has been infested by the series’ antagonists Providence. The plot is standard espionage fare that is dripping in tropes that define the genre. It’s an engaging plot, but a familiar one to be sure.
Image used with permission by copyright holder None of the story elements particularly matter, however, as they mainly serve to transport Agent 47 from one incredibly textured locale to the next. While playing the game, and as I will bring up in my review in other contexts, I discovered its closest analog to be the Mission Impossible film franchise, with its most direct comparison occurring in its opening moments.
Hitman 3 provides the most intricate scenarios yet.
Agent 47 HALO jumps from a plane like Ethan Hunt in Mission Impossible: Fallout and lands on the top of the world’s tallest building in Dubai, the key set piece in the fourth Mission Impossible movie, Ghost Protocol.
The inaugural assignment sets the stage for what players should expect for the rest of the game — immaculately designed playgrounds that somehow offer countless variety in a relatively condensed space.
The six incredibly varied locations are undoubtedly the series’ best, which is ultimately what Hitman 3 needed to nail in order to make this the best entry in the trilogy. They’re all of such a high quality that it’s hard to pick a favorite, although I’m partial to an underground nightclub in Berlin, which forces the player to pay extra close attention due to the fact that they’ll be unsure of who in the crowd their targets are.
Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the locations in the back half starts in neon-drenched city streets, and transforms into something else entirely as Agent 47 moves from one mark to the next. The levels beg to be replayed — to find all the secret passageways and hidden items tucked away in their darkest corners. The addition of unlockable shortcuts further enhances the replay value of the missions, awarding sensible alternative routes to those who spend the time hunting for them.
The game is incredibly funny The second thing Hitman has in common with Mission Impossible is its humor. While both are incredible action spectacles, they’d be nothing without their meta observations of how absurd their worlds are. The designers and writers at IO Interactive are wise enough to understand how hilarious some of the moments in its games are, and Hitman 3 plays into that absurdity every chance it gets.
The levels beg to be replayed.
Whether its Agent 47 flinging a sword across a room to impale a guard who is on the brink of recognizing him, or the titular hitman dumping an unconscious body into a vat of crushed grapes (an “eliminate” indicator appears, making it clear that the dazed target will drown in the mashed fruit), every moment of the game has a humorous hook.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The more the player accepts that this is an absurd, melodramatic action game bordering on parody, the more fun they’ll have with it. Often I found myself stalking a target through their movement cycles, taking detailed mental notes of where they stop, who they’re with, and what they’re doing, in an attempt to plan a perfect assassination. Those schemes would frequently fall apart the moment I saw an opening where a target’s back was turned in a secluded corner, and I found myself haphazardly dragging their lifeless body around a room, knowing that armed security would make a patrol through the area in a matter of seconds, with no container to stash the corpse in sight. These are the moments that make Hitman 3 shine.
There should be further, customizable difficulties After finding the opening mission to be too easy on the “normal” setting, I bumped it up to “master” difficulty. This raises security’s awareness, makes Agent 47 more vulnerable, turns off mission indicators that direct the player to the next clue, and disables auto saving, offering the player a single manual save per mission to strategically activate when they think the moment is right.
The comedic moments are what make Hitman 3 shine.
I believe this to be the best way to experience Hitman 3 , although I don’t think it’s pushed far enough. At the start of the second mission in the game, Agent 47 is told that the target knows that he is coming. When I was spotted incapacitating a guard, I darted through hidden corridors to evade the notified security. However, once enough time had passed, like any other game, it became business as usual for the non playable characters, returning to their routine as if nothing had happened.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In a later mission, after executing my target’s personal bodyguard from a distance, I was happy to see that they were taken to a secure, windowless room with armed detail surrounding it, ready to shoot anything that moved. I thought that this was the layer of difficulty I had been looking for, but after a few minutes, they returned to their cycles, the target resuming their previous motions and now with no bodyguard in the way.
A final level even states in its briefing that Agent 47 needs to take out an additional target, as they are too attentive to be oblivious to the main target’s assassination. After incapacitating the primary mark and stuffing him in a cupboard, the supposedly incredibly observant second target was none the wiser. it made me feel a little guilty that the level required me to kill her, despite her clearly not being the threat I was told she was.
A game with the tagline “world of assassination” that has in-depth customization options on how to plan out its missions by choosing different gear, alternate starting locations, and contraband stashed inside of the level, I feel like that level of personalization could increase its difficulty.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Have you taken out someone that other characters would notice if they were missing? Toggle on guards searching for them, even opening cabinets and stashes used for hiding bodies that they otherwise don’t open in the current situation. Perhaps the player could enable a timer that kicks in the moment you are spotted, which counts down an evacuation process for the target and their security, giving you a limited window to complete your objective. Little customizable A.I. enhancements of that type would go a long way in extending this game’s replay value, which is the main thrust of the game.
Our take Hitman 3 is a great swan song to a fun trilogy of games, held up by its intricate locations and humorous gameplay. Hopefully future updates bring some important additions that extend its replay value and turn it into the ultimate stealth game it is within spitting distance of being.
Is there a better alternative? Hitman and Hitman 2 are still great games, but their set pieces don’t touch what Hitman 3 has to offer. I fully recommend owning all three games, as you can access them all via Hitman 3 , and replay any of their locations from one title.
How long will it last? The campaign can take a few hours to over a dozen hours depending on how intense the players are. With how replayable its levels are, and how much variety there is on offer within the scenarios, there’s tens of hours of content.
Should you buy it? Yes.
Hitman 3 is a fun sandbox that most gamers will find something enjoyable inside of.
Editors' Recommendations The Hitman trilogy is turning into one $70 collection this month If you bought Hitman 3 on Steam, you can upgrade it for free Hitman 3: Seven Deadly Sins is a 7-part paid expansion with one DLC pack per sin Hitman 3: How to find the case file in Dartmoor How to unlock the secret ending in Hitman 3 Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming The Apex Predator mission in Hitman 3 is a true return to form for the franchise. Berlin takes an old-school approach to the Hitman formula and builds on it, removing story missions from the level entirely while upping the needed body count. You need to kill a certain number of ICA agents to end the mission, but these agents don't show up on your map. To help you make it to the end, here's how to find all the ICA agents in Berlin.
Further reading Gaming Hitman 3 is excellent showcase of what IO Interactive can do as an independent studio, following 2018's Hitman 2 and 2016's Hitman. For the most part, it stays the course, introducing a few new concepts while keeping the core mechanics the same as the two games that proceeded it. For those new to the Hitman series, or those just brushing up their assassination skills, we've rounded up 11 tips and tricks in this Hitman 3 beginner's guide.
Further reading Gaming Hitman 3 is here, and developer IO Interactive has implemented a way to carry over your progression from the first two games (Hitman and Hitman 2) into the new experience. You're able to play the entirety of the first two entries within Hitman 3, giving you a convenient way to enjoy the Hitman: World of Assassination series in one package. If you transfer your progress from the previous entries into the new game, all your XP and unlocks will be made available in the new game, but doing so isn't as straightforward as you might expect.
In fact, it's fairly complicated. In this guide, we'll show you how to import your progression and content from Hitman 1 and 2 into Hitman 3.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
