Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Immortals Fenyx Rising review: 2020’s sleeper hit By Tom Caswell Close $59.99 Gorgeous design Excellent combat and puzzles Great script Fun characters Identical to Breath of the Wild in structure Tiresome marking system Immortals Fenyx Rising may not perfectly match the organic exploration of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild , but it more than makes up for its shortcomings with gorgeous design, a witty script, and excellent combat.
Its structure is all Breath of the Wild Exploration is more checklist-based Here’s what Immortals does differently Our take This will be publisher Ubisoft’s third massive open-world game in two months, and is the only one not a part of an established franchise, but doesn’t mean it’s any less worthy of your time.
The best weapons in Immortals Fenyx Rising and where to find them The best skills to unlock first in Immortals Fenyx Rising Eight games like Breath of the Wild that you should play Its structure is all Breath of the Wild Earlier this year, a gacha game (those that employ a capsule-toy vending machine mechanic) from developer miHoYo came onto the scene. Called Genshin Impact , it was immediately compared to The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, which it very closely emulates.
Immortals Fenyx Rising is even more of a clone of that popular game than Genshin Impact.
Image used with permission by copyright holder You play as Fenyx, a customizable Ancient Greek soldier, who wakes up after having shipwrecked on a small island. You are prevented from accessing the rest of the map until you complete a few objectives that ultimately net you a tool to glide off of the peninsula. Once you arrive on the mainland, there are four powerful deities you must visit in order to gain their power and defeat the enemy at the center of the map. That foe is Thypon, who you can face from the moment you arrive if you so choose.
Immortals Fenyx Rising more than makes up for its shortcomings with gorgeous design, a witty script, and excellent combat.
Swapping out Link for Fenyx and Ganon for Tyhpon, this is a nearly identical structure to that of Breath of the Wild.
 There are hidden puzzles to solve around the world, which you traverse with your glider. You also have the ability to climb anything — as long as you have the stamina for it. There are resources to collect, new armor and weapons to wield, and numerous vaults to explore, which contain even more puzzles that reward you with an item to upgrade Fenyx’s abilities.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The world is going to have to get used to games borrowing the formula for Breath of the Wild.
 It’s the new Metroidvania, and much like those games, its design is too appealing to just leave behind. The good news is that Immortals nearly captures the same magic, aside from one glaring flaw.
Exploration is more checklist-based Breath of the Wild had incredibly natural discovery. As Link, players would set out on a journey from one divine beast to the next, being drawn away from their unique path whenever their shrine sensor would start beeping, or some distinctive topography would catch their eye.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It meant that you always had a sense of pushing forward, even if you naturally doubled back.
Immortals doesn’t have this.
In classic Ubisoft fashion, Fenyx has the ability to mark specific elements on the map, much like how the player could do so in Assassin’s Creed Origins and Assassin’s Creed Odyssey.
 This was one of my least favorite aspects of those games, and I was so thankful when they removed it in Assassin’s Creed Valhalla.
You can find yourself standing in place for minutes at a time, endlessly marking puzzles or resources, and you’re never, ever done. Granted, you could forgo using this ability at all, which I eventually did, and you will stumble across something interesting regardless. But Immortals has much more of a focus on leveling up Fenyx and upgrading her abilities, and the more I refused to use the tagging system, the more I realized the game was designed with it in mind explicitly.
Therefore, it rarely feels like you’re pushing on ahead with your quest, and more like you’re pinballing from one marker to the next, even if you refuse to engage with the system.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In addition, whereas Link acquires all his abilities within the first few hours, Fenyx slowly obtains them over the course of game. Simply leaping upward while climbing a cliff? You have to unlock it, and the traversal feels incredibly disjointed without some of these key elements. This can be remedied by quickly obtaining enough resources to upgrade Fenyx, but it’s just yet another barrier to organic discovery.
It’s a difference from Breath of the Wild that on the surface feels small, but vastly changes how the game feels in the moment to moment. Thankfully, the game’s map is much smaller than other Ubisoft open-world titles, and its list of activities doesn’t feel nearly as bloated.
Here’s what Immortals does differently I’m happy to report that the rest of the deviations from Breath of the Wild are fantastic, and that starts with the writing. While Link’s adventure can feel somewhat empty and dry, Immortals is dripping with character and humor.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The game is narrated by Zeus and Prometheus, two god brothers who play off each other with quips and banter that had me constantly chuckling throughout the game. Mixed in with their comedy is a refreshing insight into the tales that comprise Greek mythology.
It strikes a healthy balance that extends to the nature of the jokes themselves. The writing feels a lot like classic episodes of The Simpsons, which were funny when I was a kid, but I only appreciated the full scope of as an adult. A lot of elements to the story feel like this, with some truly dark and raunchy humor masterfully masked by snappy innuendos.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I’d normally throw a podcast on in the background when exploring an endless open-world game such as this, but Zeus and Prometheus’ interjections were so enjoyable as Fenyx moves around the map that I ultimately forewent doing this in order to pay attention to their narration. Additional characters, such as the gods you meet along the way, including Hermes, who is frequently at your side, add to the brevity and texture of the world as well.
While Link’s adventure can feel somewhat empty and dry, Immortals is dripping with character and humor.
One aspect that Immortals improves upon from Breath of the Wild is its combat. Link was no slouch in his game, but Fenyx is on another level with her weapons and abilities. With a sword for light attacks, an ax for heavy attacks, and a bow for ranged attacks, taking on the various mythological creatures is always fun, especially as you evolve your abilities and become more powerful. Monsters that prove difficult early on can be easily swept aside later in the game, with new beasts taking their place at the top of the food chain.
Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the key elements of Breath of the Wild was its shrines, and while the discovery of the vaults in Immortals isn’t as robust, the puzzles and combat challenges found in them are.
They also can be on a scale unmatched by anything in Breath of the Wild, particularly the ones that revolve around main quests, which provide multiple levels and objectives within them, giving the player a reason to return to a vault even after obtaining the bolt of Zeus’ lightning at the end.
Taking on the various mythological creatures is always fun, especially as you evolve your abilities and become more powerful.
The need to unlock abilities can be annoying, as sometimes I wonder if a hidden chest is only obtainable once Fenyx gains a new power or if I just haven’t figured out the puzzle yet. This problem subsides as the game progresses, as you will eventually have all the tools at your disposal, but might leave a slightly bad taste in your mouth in the initial hours.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Our take Immortals Fenyx Rising injects both the best and worst aspects of Ubisoft open-world games into the DNA of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild.
 While the shortcomings can occasionally get in the way of its enjoyment, the game is so vast and colorful that the more I played, the more I forgave those flaws. Ubisoft has a fantastic new franchise on its hands that feels tonally unique and will undoubtedly get better with future installments.
Is there a better alternative? The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild still has one of the best-realized open worlds, and Assassin’s Creed Valhalla has more refined combat.
How long will it last? Simply following the story content will result in around 30 hours of gameplay, with that playtime doubling to around 60 hours when including a healthy portion of side content and ballooning even more for completionists.
Should you buy it? Yes. It’s a colorful, charming open-world game, though players who already grabbed Watch Dogs: Legion and Assassin’s Creed Valhalla may be understandably burned out on the formula by this point.
Editors' Recommendations The best armor in Immortals Fenyx Rising and where to find it Immortals Fenyx Rising: Lyre Myth challenge guide Where to find all the captured memories in BOTW 10 essentials tips for starting out in Immortals Fenyx Rising Immortals Fenyx Rising hands-on: Assassin’s Wild Game Reviews Nintendo Product Reviews Gaming The developers of Genshin Impact doubled down on their take that the game is not a copycat of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild for the Nintendo Switch, despite player accusations of such ever since the game's initial trailers.
Game developer miHoYo repeated that Breath of the Wild was one of its inspirations in creating Genshin Impact as an open-world RPG, in an interview with FreeMMOStation. "The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild is one of the most popular and respected titles in the industry, and one which our staff hold in high regard," the studio said.
Gaming Ubisoft reportedly changed the title of its upcoming open-world Greek mythology game from Gods & Monsters to Immortals Fenyx Rising due to a trademark dispute with beverage company Monster Energy.
Immortals Fenyx Rising, which was part of the latest Ubisoft Forward livestream, has been known as Gods & Monsters since the game was revealed at E3 2019. The name change was unexplained, but TechRaptor spotted information about what happened on the website of the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
Gaming A man destroyed a PlayStation 4 in public in an apparent protest against Genshin Impact, a game that looks like a clone of the critically acclaimed The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild on the Nintendo Switch.
Developer miHoYo's formal announcement that Genshin Impact was coming to the PlayStation 4, in addition to iOS and PC, was promoted on the official PlayStation blog. The open-world game, which will take place in a vast land named Teyvat and features anime-inspired characters, will arrive on the console sometime next year.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
