Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? It Takes Two review: Teamwork makes the dream work By Giovanni Colantonio Close $40.00 Charming story Tight platforming Varied level design Thoughtful co-op Joyful interactivity Kitchen sink design While video games can cover a broad range of genres, there’s one frontier that remains mostly uncharted: The romantic comedy.
 Co-op platformer It Takes Two shows just how much we’ve been missing out on thanks to the gaming industry’s fear of cooties.
Marriage story Co-llab-o-ration! ‘No shiny shit’ Our take The EA-published adventure is the latest project by multiplayer studio Hazelight and director Josef Fares, the eclectic director behind A Way Out.
 Rather than dishing out grim sci-fi or high fantasy, It Takes Two is an unabashed rom-com about the restorative power of communication and teamwork. Imagine a 12-hour couples therapy session by way of Astro’s Playroom.
A Lord of the Rings game is in the works from the studio that created the films’ VFX Publisher Take-Two files trademark claim against developer of It Takes Two Take-Two Interactive buys hit mobile developer Playdots It Takes Two is a labor of love that has the heart of a Pixar movie and the soul of a Nintendo platformer. Even the most hardened gamers may find themselves falling for the most inventive co-op game since Portal 2.
Marriage story It Takes Two doesn’t begin with a traditional meet-cute. Instead, it opens with a couple on the verge of divorce. Cody and May are a bickering married couple who decide to call it quits. When they break the news to their daughter, she does what any confused child would do in the situation: Accidentally traps her parents in the body of two tiny dolls with the help of a magical book.
What follows is a vibrant adventure where the former lovebirds must work through their problems, which have physically manifested into platforming challenges. The game takes full advantage of its magical realist premise to playfully transform domestic squabbles into clever video game tropes. That broken vacuum Cody was too lazy to fix? It’s become a Bowser-sized boss. The pesky wasp’s nest in the backyard? The pint-sized couple has no choice but to go to war with them in a mini third-person shooter.
The game’s most direct comparison isn’t another platformer, but Pixar’s Inside Out.
 Both feature the same brand of illustrative storytelling that uses cartoony set pieces to underscore real experiences. Like a great Pixar movie, It Takes Two boasts memorable characters, moving emotional beats, and the occasional comedic wink that parents will pray their kids didn’t understand.
The game takes full advantage of its magical realist premise to playfully transform domestic squabbles into clever video game tropes.
The story can get narratively scattershot at times. There are a lot of rapid-fire gameplay ideas happening at every level that don’t always sync up to a relationship parallel. Plot threads seem to come out of left field to justify moving the game to a snow-themed level or an elaborate musical set-piece. Fortunately, every new mechanic is so pleasurable that it hardly matters how effective the game is as a therapy session.
Co-llab-o-ration! Despite the cinematic comparisons, the game works as well as it does because of its interactivity. Lots of romance stories tell audiences how important teamwork is, but It Takes Two puts physicality to those life lessons. The game can only be played with another human partner, so it requires actual unity to complete. Players learn to communicate and build their trust in one another alongside May and Cody.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s a high-concept idea that is delivered with finesse. As a platformer, the running and jumping feels as good as a Mario game. The puzzles are rarely challenging, but the solutions are ingenious enough to inspire satisfying eureka moments. The levels themselves offer a constant barrage of fun ideas that never overstay their welcome. As soon as players could find themselves bored with a traditional platforming puzzle, it swaps over to a mini-dungeon crawler that’s completely different and just as enjoyable.
What’s most impressive is how much thought has gone into creating a co-op game that actually cares about both players. May and Cody get completely different tools to play with in each level. In the opening chapter, Cody gets a set of nails that can be shot into wooden walls while May gets a hammerhead that she can use to swing on those nails. The mechanics and utility of each item are completely different and give each player their own unique experience. There’s never a point where it feels like player one got the “cool” item and their partner is a sidekick.
What’s most impressive is how much thought has gone into creating a co-op game that actually cares about both players.
That’s something that many co-op games really struggle with. Nintendo infamously neglects player two by either making them a mechanical clone of the protagonist or a helper with limited functionality.
It Takes Two is fully designed with both sides of the split screen in mind and it always makes sure to alternate who gets their big hero moment.
That’s another thing that the game gets right about relationships. Both Cody and May are equally important to the dynamic. Players need to collaborate to bring the characters together, but they are never left standing around while their partner has all the fun. The give and take is never at one person’s expense.
‘No shiny shit’ Before the game’s release, EA held a Q&A with director Josef Fares. He had one choice phrase he repeated multiple times when asked about his approach to game design: “No shiny shit.” Fares went on one of his signature rants against the concept of “replayability” and emphasized that It Takes Two didn’t feature hollow collectibles. Instead, his aim was to make an interactive world that was fun to explore without arbitrary hooks.
There’s a sense that Fares is just having a blast designing every little interaction.
That philosophy is evident throughout the game’s nine distinct levels. When players find themselves high up in a tree, they can stop to toss a stray paper airplane. There’s no real incentive to do it; it’s just for the love of the game. That’s a breath of fresh air in the era of the open-world “map game” where players are given a repetitive checklist of tasks to complete.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The closest thing the game has to “collectibles” are minigames scattered throughout every level. These are simple competitive challenges like tug of war or snail racing that give players a light break from the story. While they aren’t complex side-quests, they offer a good excuse to break up the pace and let partners blow off any potential frustration that’s brewed between tricky co-op miscues.
There’s a sense that Fares is just having a blast designing every little interaction. The director is notably in love with his own games and that attitude is infectious. While his previous works can feel a little too self-serious, It Takes Two is a fuller representation of both his colorful personality and the immense skill level over at Hazelight. He jokes (probably) that he’ll give anyone who doesn’t love the game $1,000. As much as I’d love the money, I’m certainly not going to ask him to pay up. He wins this bet.
Our take It Takes Two is Hazelight and Josef Fares’ most fully realized vision of co-op gaming yet. It uses clever interactivity to highlight the importance of good communication in video games and relationships alike. With Nintendo-quality level design and a charming story to motivate its platforming action, It’s the rare multiplayer game that will strengthen friendships rather than end them.
Is there a better alternative? No.
It Takes Two is easily the best co-op game of its breed since Portal 2.
How long will it last? The adventure clocks in at a surprisingly lengthy 10-12 hours. May and Cody get completely different abilities each level too, which makes a second playthrough feel very enticing.
Should I buy it? Yes. It’s a joyous time from start to finish and it comes with a Friend Pass, which gives one of your pals a copy of the game. It’s a two-for-one deal that makes sure you’ll have someone to play with.
Editors' Recommendations The next game from the Outriders studio loses Take-Two as its publisher Take-Two completes its massive Zynga acquisition How to use It Takes Two’s Friend’s Pass Take-Two says next-generation game price hikes won’t be universal Take-Two to continue support for Google Stadia despite tech shortcomings Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Unions 1 through 30 just weren't enough.
Last year, Sledgehammer and Visceral Games veteran Michael Condrey founded a new studio at 2K Games. That studio now has a name, 31st Union, and it will develop an original game rather than assist with current franchises.
Gaming Take-Two Interactive, the parent company of Rockstar Games, continues its crackdown on GTA Online modders with a new lawsuit that seeks $150,000 in damages.
Mods in GTA Online, the online component of Grand Theft Auto V, allow players to cheat and gain unfair advantages over other players. Take-Two has recently ramped up its actions against GTA Online mods, with the latest lawsuit filed against the creator of a software named Elusive.
Gaming Microsoft's latest console, the Xbox Series X, is a powerhouse, oftentimes matching or outperforming the PlayStation 5 in multiplatform releases. But how are the exclusives? The Xbox Series X had a thin lineup at launch, but over the years has amassed a more than impressive catalogue of titles.
We will only include Xbox One games if they've been optimized for Series X and S (like Gears 5). Also, we're ignoring PCs entirely. If you factor in PC releases, Microsoft hasn't had a console-exclusive game in years. While many exciting games are still to come, such as Fable and Hellblade 2, there are more than enough to keep you satisfied until then.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
