Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Kena: Bridge of Spirits review: A legendary adventure By Giovanni Colantonio Close $40.00 Satisfying exploration Delightful Rot mechanic Tough, but fair battles Elegant complexity curve Gorgeous visuals Frustrating attack patterns Cutscenes stutter On a surface glance, few would probably guess that Kena: Bridge of Spirits is a self-published, debut project from a small studio. The adventure game is about as polished as can be, with gorgeous visuals, cutscenes that rival (if not surpass) modern CG animated films, and iron-tight gameplay mechanics. If there was ever any doubt that the barrier between “ indie game ” and “AAA” has eroded over the years, here’s a game that shatters any remaining walls.
The Legend of Kena No slouch Eat your heart out, Hollywood Our take Developed by Ember Lab, Kena: Bridge of Spirits bursts onto PS4, PS5 , and PC via the Epic Games Store with the confidence of a first-party Sony game. It pulls elements from Zelda, Uncharted, Dark Souls, and plenty more heavy hitters above its weight class to deliver a knockout blow to its genre. It’s no surprise that it’s gotten a massive spotlight during Sony’s State of Play streams and this year’s Tribeca Festival ; this is the kind of statement debut that demands attention.
The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Kena: Bridge of Spirits is an exquisitely crafted adventure that fuses classic and modern game design concepts with ease. Whether it’s riffing on Pikmin with its inventive creature-controlling mechanics or serving up deceptively challenging battles, it excels at everything it does. That’s all topped off with a poignant, Miyazaki-like story told through deep worldbuilding and cinema-quality cutscenes.
The Legend of Kena When it first debuted, Kena: Bridge of Spirits drew some early comparisons to The Legend of Zelda series.
 Those were certainly warranted, but it doesn’t paint a full picture of the game. It’s bursting with inspirations that build upon decades of video game history. The general framework feels timeless; Kena is a staff-wielding hero who sets out to find a mountain shrine in a poisoned world that’s been abandoned by everyone, except monsters.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Many of its structural beats are familiar, but in a warm, comforting way. Players tackle well-designed platforming sections, hunt down relics that take them to each corner of a sprawling map, and find a whole bunch of collectible secrets scattered in every nook and cranny. It’s a classic video game premise that is somehow nostalgic to every era, but each bit of it is shined up until it sparkles.
Exploring in Kena: Bridge of Spirits always feels satisfying, because each tool has a clear purpose that’s easy to keep track of.
Take exploration, for instance. Kena doesn’t have as many tools as Link, but each one is equally crucial to navigation. Her arrows allow her to zip onto flowers like a hookshot, she can scale walls a la Uncharted, and a mid-game spirit bomb magically rebuilds broken structures to create the game’s most clever platforming puzzles. Exploring in Kena: Bridge of Spirits always feels satisfying, because each tool has a clear purpose that’s easy to keep track of; there’s no mechanical fluff to slow the pace down.
Its most delightful idea comes from a surprising game, though: Pikmin.
 Kena can collect and control adorable black creatures called Rot, who swarm and squeak around her like Spirited Away ’s soot sprites. The Rot infuse Kena’s traditional adventure systems with its most inventive ideas. They can lift objects to reveal collectibles, lug rocks around that create new platforms, or form into a water-like swarm that can break through thorny roadblocks. Every time I discovered a new interaction, I’d squeal with joy — both because I was delighted by how many creative ways the game could stretch a simple system and because they’re just so darn cute. They can even wear tiny cowboy hats! Image used with permission by copyright holder Yes, I’m serious about that last part. Another vintage part of Kena ’s DNA is its collect-a-thon setup. There’s a lot of optional items to find throughout the world, but each one is actually worth tracking down for different reasons. The Rot themselves serve as a clever, yet functional collectible, as the swarm levels up and gains new abilities when Kena finds enough creatures. There’s also a whole bunch of tiny hats that can be found via chests and combat challenges, and each Rot can be outfitted with a different one. That doesn’t have any gameplay implications, but it sure is a fun diversion.
That speaks to the core strength at play in Kena : it’s always playful. Every new tool, platforming puzzle, or buried treasure brings another delightful surprise that rewards anyone who’s willing to lose themselves in a digital adventure.
No slouch Don’t be fooled by the cute creatures and little hats, though: Kena gets deceptively tough. Combat is as important as exploration here, and as thoughtfully built too. At first, players only use a light and heavy staff attack to melee enemies. But the game does an excellent job of gradually ramping up what players can do. It’s a graceful complexity curve that naturally builds alongside the game’s difficulty.
Kena soon gains the ability to shoot arrows from her staff, bringing a ranged component into the mix. Bombs add another layer around the game’s halfway point, bringing some puzzle mechanics to battle. One stony boss can only be damaged once Kena uses bombs to expose its wooden skin underneath. Every item has a select few upgrades too, each of which feels useful and not just like a nice, but useless perk.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Rot play an excellent supporting role in battles too. When Kena builds up enough resolve, she can deploy the Rot for a variety of purposes. They can swarm around an enemy to briefly distract them, heal Kena by blooming flowers around the battlefield, or even infuse with weapons to create powerful special attacks. Each time I had enough energy stored up, I’d find myself having to make decisions about how I’d command the Rot. Should I heal myself while my health is low, or fire off a Rot arrow to deal an extra chunk of damage? It’s a level of strategic depth that almost makes the Rot feel like an RPG magic system.
Shielding and evasion play a major role in battles too, giving the fights a manageable Dark Souls edge. Kena has a spirit bubble, which acts as a shield in battle. Block too many times and it’ll break, but activate it at the right moment and she’ll parry enemies, leaving them vulnerable for a few seconds. While my instinct was to avoid it at first, it quickly became crucial to my battle plan.
It’s a graceful complexity curve that naturally builds alongside the game’s difficulty.
It’s important to have a plan, because fights start to get serious towards the back half of the game. The challenge naturally crescendos with battles that feel tough, but achievable. While fights mostly feel fair, they do provide some of the game’s rare moments of frustration. Certain enemy attacks can go surprisingly far, making them a little difficult to read or avoid. Some creatures also seem to have the ability to turn anything they throw into a homing missile. I’d constantly feel like I’d cleanly dodge out of a rock’s path, only for it to turn into a curveball and beam me on the head.
Those moments are rare, though. More often than not, I felt totally in control in battle because I had a firm understanding of all my tools. By the penultimate boss, I’d find myself sticking a bomb onto an enemy, shooting it with a Rot-infused arrow to deal some extra ranged damage while detonating it, dashing forward to close the distance, activating my shield at the right time to counter an attack, and swinging my staff to quickly cut down its health bar.
Kena gets players to that point at a steady pace, making sure they have enough time to fully grasp a tool’s potential before introducing a new idea that adds more depth.
Eat your heart out, Hollywood Developer Ember Lab started out as an animation studio and that’s readily apparent. One of the first things players will notice when booting Kena up is that it features gorgeous visuals that don’t possibly seem like they could have come from a small, first-time game studio. Environments pop thanks to a rich color palette that juxtaposes the cool blues and greens of the natural world with neon-like splashes of red and burnt-out browns. Each little character comes to life with animation detail, including every single Rot.
The high production value is especially apparent in the game’s cutscenes, which genuinely look as though they’ve been pulled from a high-budget, CG animated film. It feels like Ember Lab is pushing video game animation to its limits here — which becomes clear as some of the game’s busier sequences tend to bump up against noticeable framerate stutters.
Image used with permission by copyright holder All those pretty images go to good use, as Kena ’s real strong suit comes in the form of its story. The game plays like a classic Hayao Miyazaki film (think Princess Mononoke or Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind ), with Kena fighting to preserve nature’s beauty. She’s ultimately on a quest to reverse an environmental disaster that’s caused an entire village to flee. On her way to the shrine, she interacts with the spirits of those who were unable to stop it. The ghosts that linger around grieve for a once beautiful place, highlighting the personal pain that comes from a failure to protect the world around us.
The high production value is especially apparent in the game’s cutscenes, which genuinely look as though they’ve been pulled from a high-budget, CG animated film.
But Kena isn’t a story of gloom and doom. It pauses to provide empathy for those overwhelmed by pain, but still moves forward, offering hope for the future. The game hinges on moments of environmental catharsis where Kena uses the Rot to revert dead areas back into thriving, grassy plains. Watching gnarled wood and poisonous gas revert back to lush hills (an effect that seamlessly happens in-game thanks to next-gen tech) makes Kena: Bridge of Spirits into a true power fantasy. Not one where a grizzled soldier destroys everything in sight with a massive gun, but one where even the smallest person has the power to rebuild the world around them.
Things aren’t quite so easy in our own world, but Kena stands as a much-needed beacon of optimism for players young and old.
Our take Kena: Bridge of Spirits is the finest adventure game released in years and a clear highlight of the latest console cycle. Both its exploration and combat components gradually build in complexity with tools that always have a clear purpose. That elegant mechanical design keeps the focus on the game’s impactful story, which tells an aching, but hopeful tale of environmental disaster. There are a lot of points of comparisons to be made when breaking it all down, but Kena: Bridge of Spirits blends every little influence together into its own gorgeous mix.
Is there a better alternative? The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild is the adventure game to beat, but Kena is the best option for PS5 owners at the moment.
How long will it last? The story takes around 10 hours to complete with some healthy collection. Finding everything will extend the playtime further, as will the Master difficulty mode that’s unlocked upon completion.
Should you buy it? Yes. Forget Deathloop and Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart : this is the defining console exclusive of the PS5’s debut year.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 exclusives The best PS5 games for 2023 PS5 slim vs. PS5: everything you need to know about the new PS5 model PS Plus members can cloud stream PS5 games in 4K later this month Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming The newly redesigned PlayStation 5 is getting its own set of console covers sometime next year. Sony confirms to Digital Trends that several faceplate colors are slated to launch in 2024 but covers for the old PS5 models will not be compatible with the new systems.
One of the PS5's most unique features is its removable faceplates, which allow players to customize their console with new colors and designs. The new PS5 models will evolve that idea with a four-cover panel design that gives the system a slightly different look. Sony is already planning to make those customizable in the near future, according to a statement sent to Digital Trends.
Gaming If you don't own the PlayStation 5 yet, or if you're planning to give it as a gift to a loved one, then you've come to the right place because we've rounded up the best PS5 deals. You can enjoy discounts not just on Sony's latest-generation video game console, but also on bundles that pair it with games and accessories. There's still a lot of demand for the PS5 though, so don't be surprised if these offers get sold out quickly. If you don't want to miss out, you'll have to decide on what to purchase from these bargains as soon as you can.
Refurbished PlayStation 5 Digital Edition -- $380, was $399 This is probably the cheapest price that you can pay for the PlayStation 5 -- getting a refurbished digital version of the console, which skips the disc drive and relies on online downloads. It's not brand new, but it's guaranteed to be in fine working condition so you'll be able to play the best PS5 games after installing them from the PlayStation Store or through a PlayStation Plus subscription.
Gaming Sony Interactive Entertainment President and CEO Jim Ryan is retiring after 30 years. The PlayStation boss will formally leave his role in March 2024 with a successor yet to be named.
Jim Ryan has been working with PlayStation since 1994 when he joined Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe. Since then, he's become the key figurehead for the PlayStation brand, similar to Phil Spencer's role within Xbox. His most recent success has come from the launch of the PlayStation 5, which has already surpassed a 40 million unit milestone. Today, Sony announced that Ryan plans to retire from the role.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
