Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Last of Us Part I review: Revolutionizing gaming in a new way By Giovanni Colantonio Close $70.00 Story is still powerful Left Behind has aged wonderfully Some notable tech boosts Bonus modes add replay value Landmark accessibility Hardly a remake Pricey for what's offered After taking a few years off from gaming, I bought a PS4 in 2014. It came bundled with a free copy of The Last of Us Remastered , a game I didn’t know much about outside of its sterling reputation among critics. Less than a week later, I found myself staring at my TV, my mouth hanging open as I processed the game’s stunning final hour. “So, this is what video games can do,” I thought to myself. My previously narrow view of the medium as escapist entertainment was smashed wide open like a golf club to a skull.
Still the best Pretty for a price Accessibility in hindsight A lot has changed about video games between then and the release of The Last of Us Part I , Sony’s new PS5 remake of a PS3 classic that got a PS4 upgrade. While it was a revelation even still in 2014, developers have since taken its coveted blood and injected it into everything from God of War to Tomb Raider.
 Returning to the PS5 glow-up eight years after I first played the remaster feels a bit like going back to 1985’s Super Mario Bros.
 While many games I play today have its DNA, it’ll always be patient zero.
The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X PS5 slim vs. PS5: everything you need to know about the new PS5 model New PS5 models are getting their own console covers, but old ones aren’t compatible The Last of Us Part I shows that Naughty Dog’s gritty action game is still an enduring classic that hasn’t aged a day. Though that’s largely because Sony won’t allow it to, as evidenced by a mostly superfluous remake that doesn’t meaningfully improve on the game’s perfectly modern (and much cheaper) 2014 remaster. However, the project does once again push the industry forward in an important way: by raising the bar for accessibility in gaming’s past, present, and future.
Still the best The Last of Us Part I is a difficult game to critique for a variety of reasons that’ll become clear shortly. No matter how many philosophical gripes I have with the entire idea of the remake’s existence, it’s still the best version of what I’d consider the finest video game of the 2010s. Purely focusing on the text, it remains a phenomenal experience that few games have fully replicated — including its own sequel.
The game tells the story of Joel, a father surviving alone during a zombie-like apocalypse after his daughter is killed. Long after that tragedy, Joel takes on a job to transport a piece of precious cargo across the country. That cargo is Ellie, a young girl who is seemingly immune to the disease that turns humans into fungus-infested “clickers.” Perverting the fatherly ideal of the “protector,” Joel begins to treat Ellie like an unwitting surrogate daughter on his journey to deliver her to a group called the Fireflies.
The focused nature of The Last of Us is still the game’s best trait.
The brilliance of The Last of Us has always been in the way it preys on the player’s perception of video game protagonists. We assume Joel is a hero, because games largely place us in the game of the righteous good guy.
The Last of Us pushes players to reexamine that idea, using the concept of the unreliable narrator to flip our once-accepted truths about video game language on their head. It’s an idea that only works as well as it does because of its interactive nature that puts the player in control of Joel’s actions – something the series’ upcoming TV adaptation will have to work around.
The enduring power of its devastating story is contingent on the moment when players look down and see the blood on their own hands. It lures players in with sickly satisfying stealth kills and gun combat (complete with gory violence that’s all the more glorious with enhanced visuals and a crisp 60 frames per second) before leading them to a horrific finale that re-contextualizes the entire game. Some find it to be a cheap trick. Others continue to miss the point entirely by rallying behind Joel as a lovable hero. Regardless of where you fall, it’s still the rare big-budget video game that’s cognizant of how play itself can deliver the message.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s especially illuminating returning to the game after 2020’s The Last of Us Part II , a game this re-release is clearly capitalizing on. The sequel is bloated compared to its predecessor’s sleek story. It tries to ask messy questions about the cyclical nature of violence, but can’t help but include a New Game+ mode where you get to keep all your cool guns in another playthrough. The focused nature of The Last of Us is still the game’s best trait, with impactful story beats interwoven with shining moments of tense stealth, zombie horror, and cinematic action.
In fact, the biggest revelation in the new package is just how fantastic the game’s Left Behind DLC still is, which also gets a makeover here. The two-hour story about Ellie scavenging for medicine in an abandoned mall stands up as one of Naughty Dog’s finest games in its own right. The bonus episode balances the tender and the tragic moments of human life, all while hitting the best mechanical beats of the main game in a more concise package that’s memorable from end to end.
If you’ve never played any version of The Last of Us , Part I preserves its power while adding a fresh sheen. If you have played it before, that’s an entirely different conversation.
Pretty for a price It’s hard not to feel cynical about the project when moving beyond the confines of the text itself. Positioned as a ground-up remake and priced at $70 like a new PS5 release, The Last of Us Part I struggles to justify its own existence in many respects. It feels disingenuous to call it a remake considering how few of its improvements make a meaningful difference over its 2014 remaster. It’s like watching a 4K restoration of a film: It won’t change anything about your relationship to the work, just clean off your window to it.
The Last of Us was never good because of particle effects.
The Last of Us Part I is undoubtedly a better-looking game than the 2014 version. Fire ferociously billows through the streets in its harrowing opening sequence. Landscapes emphasize the beauty still present in the game’s hellish world with awe-inspiring graphical fidelity. Faces are more expressive, bringing extra power to moments like Ellie’s gut-wrenching final confrontation with Joel. And everything happens in a much cleaner 60 frames per second, making the action feel faster and more fluid than ever.
So why did nothing about my experience change? After playing the remake’s iconic intro, I immediately fired up the remaster, streaming it off of PS Plus via the cloud. For my first few minutes, the difference felt significant. Everything was a little more unnatural during the game’s opening cutscene, from the more digital faces to the choppy framerate. And then I gained control. Within no time, my mind adapted to the visuals and I stopped feeling the frame dip entirely. My brain filled in the gaps and my reaction to the scene that unfolded was identical, more billowy flames be damned.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I spoke with my co-worker Tomas Franzese about my experience, questioning why I wasn’t wowed by features like the game’s radically improved particle effects. He replied, “ The Last of Us was never good because of particle effects.” He’s right.
The Last of Us Remastered doesn’t look photorealistic, but who cares? When I think back to my experience with it, its technical output isn’t what sticks with me. It’s the atmosphere, the thoroughly imagined dystopian world, the emotional relationship with how I’m enabling Joel’s misguided quest. I might have had opinions on its sometimes clueless A.I. at the time (which is drastically improved in Part I ), but any critiques have long since melted away. And when I talk about The Last of Us Part I in another 10 years, I sure as hell won’t praise or even remember the number of particles on screen.
The remake largely feels like a marketing opportunity for Sony, capitalizing on the game’s upcoming TV adaptation with a pricey upgrade. It does that without making any meaningful changes that alter my relationship to the work, something excellent remakes like Shadow of the Colossus or Demon’s Souls do. New features like companions having better exposure awareness will make for a great Game Developers Conference talk, but they won’t make someone who’s played the original feel like they’ve wisely spent their money.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I don’t mean to undermine the passionate work that’s gone into rebuilding The Last of Us Part I.
 Naughty Dog has transformed a two-generations old game into a modern marvel. It has even included nifty new features, like permadeath and speedrun modes, that’ll give old fans a new reason to play. But the best remakes preserve the feeling of playing a game when it first released, making it look as impressive as it did at the time.
The Last of Us Part I does feel the same as I remember it in 2014. But that’s because it is.
Accessibility in hindsight There is one thing that’s changed for me between playing the remaster and remake: I’ve since become extremely nearsighted. When I played the game in 2014, I sat ten feet away from a 42-inch 1080p Vizio screen crookedly mounted on my wall and could see every detail. I played The Last of Us Part I on a 55-inch 4K TCL display from five feet away and needed to lean forward if I wanted to get a clear look at it.
The remake is going to allow people who were physically unable to play the game a chance to experience it for the first time.
That’s where the remake’s actual improvement comes into play.
The Last of Us Part I includes a large suite of accessibility options that allow fans to tailor the experience to their needs. Some of those options are simple, like increasing caption sizes. Others are groundbreaking, like the ability to enable spoken audio descriptions for cutscenes. The remake is going to allow people who were physically unable to play the game a chance to experience it for the first time. Frankly, that’s more important than any facial hair texture.
I can’t begin to guess how effectively the game will cater to every player, but I can tell you about my own experience. Before starting the game, I went into the menus and began picking options like I was ordering sushi from a menu. I knew my hurdles would be visual, so I bumped up the size of the HUD elements to start — a seemingly fundamental option that some games still lack. But what really got me excited was the long list of audio cues I could enable. For instance, lootable items are usually marked with a small white triangle button prompt. Rather than straining to see it, I could toggle on an audio cue that would ding like a Wheel of Fortune board when I was close to something I could grab.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I could make some other cues tactile thanks to the DualSense controller. Usually aiming would be tricky in a game like this, as I can sometimes have trouble clearly focusing on a faraway target. Here, I was able to enable a gentle vibration any time my crosshairs were lined up with an enemy, letting me know I was where I wanted to be. The innovations go even deeper. One incredible option translates all dialogue to haptic vibrations , allowing players to feel how lines are being delivered. My eyesight condition is minor (and I can easily toss on a pair of glasses to resolve it, unlike some visually impaired players), but with just over half a dozen options, I could easily play The Last of Us Part I just as well as I played The Last of Us Remastered.
Accessibility isn’t only about settings in a menu. It has to be baked into the game’s game design from the beginning, and naturally that’s not going to happen with a 1:1 remake of a 10-year-old game. There are some misfires here, like treating game speed reduction (a key accessibility tool) as a bonus unlockable. And frankly, it’s a little gross to think that players who need the game’s upgrades will have to pay $70 to get them while others can experience the comparable remaster for $20. But what Naughty Dog has done here is admirable, taking a canonical classic that’s quintessential to gaming history and trying to make it a more inclusive experience. If it’s going to be a game that’s discussed for decades to come, more people need to be able to get into the conversation.
My critiques of The Last of Us Part I are largely philosophical, but those feel small when stacked up against the truly important work that’s been done here. If you’ve already played The Last of Us and feel outraged over what the remake offers, consider that it doesn’t have to be for you.
The Last of Us Part I was tested on a PS5 hooked up to a TCL 6-Series R635 TV.
Editors' Recommendations Naughty Dog confirms The Last of Us Part II Remastered following leak The best PS5 games for 2023 PS Plus members can cloud stream PS5 games in 4K later this month Naughty Dog devs suffer layoffs, reportedly impacting Last of Us multiplayer spinoff Sony’s cloud handheld, the PlayStation Portal, will only stream certain games Action Games Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming Since its release in 2020, the PS5 has amassed a large library of experiences, from shooters to sports games, RPGs, and platformers, along with a wide variety of open-world adventures. While "open world" isn't necessarily a genre in and of itself, it's a style that millions of players have fallen in love with over the years. These days, open-world games are quite common, meaning the competition to grab your attention is much stiffer. And with the likes of Marvel's Spider-Man 2 down the pipeline, there will be plenty more to play in the future.
Despite this, there are so many fantastic open-world games available on the PS5. Some lean into horror, others send you to historical periods, while one, in particular, lets you explore the entire galaxy. There is no shortage of open-world games to play on PS5, and here, we'll go through all of the best ones to choose from.
Gaming The Last of Us developer Naughty Dog has confirmed that it's working on a new single-player game in a fairly odd manner. The news came in the middle of an apologetic post explaining why the studio didn't show its upcoming Last of Us multiplayer project during this week's PlayStation Showcase.
https://twitter.com/Naughty_Dog/status/1662166716892479488 Gaming During the May 2023 PlayStation Showcase, PlayStation CEO Jim Ryan revealed Project Q. It's a new handheld streaming device that will allow you to stream any game from your PlayStation 5 console using its remote play function or Wi-Fi.
It doesn't have an official name yet, so it's known internally as Project Q. What we do know is that it has an 8-inch HD screen, plus all of the buttons and features of a DualSense wireless controller.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
