Cohere Website For Business Docs Research Cohere Team Transform Your Customer Support Game with NLP Magic & Cohere For Business Share: Empower Your Customer Service Squad by Streamlining Text Analysis and Routing Automation TL;DR: Unveil the secret to mastering customer support with Cohere's robust NLP platform. Effortlessly manage high volumes of inquiries through automated text analysis, classification, and topic tagging. Boost satisfaction levels for both customers and team members alike by saving precious time.
Unleash the Power of Natural Language Processing (NLP) for Customer Support It’s easy to build customer love when things go right. But when things go wrong, your customer service needs to step up. Natural language processing (NLP) can help teams deliver at scale.
By understanding the meaning behind text, Cohere can automatically route inbound inquiries, making it easier for customer support teams to step in and resolve issues quickly.
Get started with Cohere Contact our sales team for more information Overcome the Tyranny of Tickets When it comes to customer service, support teams can find themselves in a flurry of endless tickets. Requests can come from all angles, and organizing them is a gargantuan task.
Manual text analysis and routing processes take a lot of time. Team members need to read and understand what a query is about, such as billing, account lockouts, or technical issues, before sending the issue on to the appropriate owner. Meanwhile, customers are left waiting.
How Cohere can help Cohere: Speaking the language of customer service Cohere’s enterprise-grade NLP platform can help any business automate the processing of text-based customer communications. Whether it’s a few hundred emails, or hundreds of thousands of messages across multiple channels, Cohere can quickly read, understand, and organize them all — so customer service teams can take fast action.
Developers Cohere gives every developer easy access to NLP We’ve made an API that works with every stack. No matter your level of developer experience, the Cohere Platform makes it easy to integrate machine learning into your applications and systems with our Python, Node, and Go SDKs. Our versatile NLP platform offers three endpoints for generation, classification, or embedding text data at massive scale. Developers can then use Cohere's endpoints to handle specific tasks, such as text analysis, text classification, and topic labeling.
Install Guide Start now Our platform can be plugged into any library, giving every developer access to NLP.
Billions on billions Our models have been trained on billions of words, allowing them to understand the nuances and context markers of how people communicate.
Use Cohere’s Classify for text analysis and topic labeling Starting from the same Transformer architecture as Google’s Search and Translate, Cohere’s Classify endpoint can analyze and label incoming text (like customer requests) based on a predefined set of relevant categories (like billing, accounts, technical, feature request, or how-to). Behind the scenes are Cohere’s large language models, which developers can further finetune with their own dataset per their business or industry.
Try it Now Read the Docs Here's how it works Set the road rules Define the issue types relevant to your business. Then, train Classify with examples of customer requests for each of these categories. This helps our model understand the different words and phrases that your customers are using to describe their issues.
Read our Classify Guide Start the engine Classify then uses this knowledge to automatically parse all inbound customer requests (text analysis), determine the specific issue type for each one (text classification), and organize them by issue type (topic labeling).
Learn how Get driving Once the classification process is complete, you can use that data to route each request to the team or agent best suited to handle an issue type. Or, improve your auto-responder workflow to offer self-service help options to your customers.
Give your customers and team time back in their day Using Classify to automate inquiry routing can truly transform your service operations. For your customers, quick resolution of their problems helps to build brand loyalty and affinity. For your customer support team, an automated triage system improves speed, efficiency, and productivity — all at scale.
Get started with Cohere Contact our sales team for more information Focus on the hard stuff By automatically responding to simple inquiries with relevant help articles, Classify enables agents to spend more time where their skills are needed — on complex problems.
Pass on time-consuming tasks Cohere’s state-of-the-art models are trained to understand text just as well as humans, which means they’re built to handle typos, the relational meanings between words, and queries of differing lengths.
Make it personalized Unlike the limited sorting solutions offered by help desk platforms, Cohere lets you define your own issue types and categories. Whether you need broad categories, or prefer a more granular approach, Classify works for you. Not the other way around.
Transform Your Customer Support Operations with NLP By automating inquiry routing with Cohere's Classify, you can transform your service operations, build brand loyalty, and improve customer support team productivity at scale. Free up agents to focus on complex problems, handle typos and relational meanings between words, and personalize your issue types and categories with Cohere's versatile NLP platform.
Take your customer service to new heights by integrating Cohere's state-of-the-art NLP platform for streamlined text analysis and issue routing. Unleash efficiency, enhance customer satisfaction, and empower your team like never before. Ready to start? Discover the magic of Cohere's AI-driven customer support solutions today! Try the Cohere Playground Lights, Camera, Action: Building a Multilingual Movie Recommender! Exploring the Deep World of NLP AI is Eating the World Keep reading Cohere — Nov 16, 2023 Cohere’s Enterprise AI Models Coming Soon to Microsoft Azure AI as a Managed Service Newsroom Seraphina Goldfarb-Tarrant , Maximilian Mozes — Nov 14, 2023 The Enterprise Guide to AI Safety For Business Cohere Team — Nov 03, 2023 Emerging Trends in Generative AI Research: A Selection of Recent Papers Research Cohere.com Get Started About Classify Generate Responsibility Documentation Careers
