Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Madden NFL 24 for PS5 and Xbox Series X is 39% off By Andrew Morrisey Close EA Sports Madden NFL Football is one of the most popular video game franchises of all time, and today its newest iteration — Madden NFL 24 — is seeing a massive discount. You can get Madden NFL 24 for just $43 at Amazon right now, and it’s available at that price for both the Xbox Series X and the PlayStation 5.
 The game regularly costs $70, making this deal worth a savings of $27. Free shipping is included with a purchase as well.
Why you should buy Madden NFL 24 The Madden NFL video game franchise is a staple in sports gaming, with previous versions of the game still among the best sports games on Xbox Series X.
Madden NFL 24 advances the franchise significantly, bringing what’s known as Sapien Technology to the game. It’s a leap forward in character technology and makes the football players within the game more responsive and truer to player motion in real life. This also brings improvements in gameplay realism, as it tends to feel more lifelike as you control the players in different ways. Madden’s FieldSENSE also provides an enhanced gameplay foundation that gives you greater control.
Whether you’re purchasing Madden NFL 24 Xbox Series X or for the PlayStation 5 , it has a lot of great gameplay features. You can build a custom superstar and play through an entire career. AI enhancements provide more confidence in AI teammates, helping you execute gameplay’s more effectively. You can even lead your franchise into history with new mini games, streamlined relocation, more trade slots, and contract restructuring. You can also build your dream roster of NFL stars and legends with Madden Ultimate Team.
Madden NFL 24 makes a great gift option, particularly if you’re considering one of the best Xbox Series X games or one of the best PS5 games for a gift this year.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
And with this discount on Madden NFL 24 taking place at Amazon, now is a good opportunity to get ahead of the holiday rush on video games. You can grab Madden NFL 24 for just $43, which is a savings of $27 from its regular price of $70. It’s available for both Xbox Series X and PlayStation 5.
Editors' Recommendations The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories This PS5 bundle just got a price cut for the holidays The best PS5 games for 2023 All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Deals Amazon Microsoft Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Xbox Gaming For one of the best Xbox Series X and Series S deals around, look no further than Walmart. Today, you can buy the Xbox Series X Forza Horizon 5 bundle for just $490 so you save $70 off the regular price of $560. If you're looking to start your holiday gift purchasing or you simply want a new console for yourself, this is a great deal. Check it out now by tapping the buy button below or keep reading while we tell you more about it.
Why you should buy the Xbox Series X Forza Horizon 5 bundle The Xbox Series X is a seriously powerful games console. While it might have a fairly divisive design being a very large black box, inside is some fantastic power. It has 12 teraflops of processing power and is capable of running games at 120 frames per second in 4K. It runs quietly too thanks to a great cooling design. Under the hood is 1TB of hard drive space which translates to 802GB of available space once you rule out the needs of the operating system. Tag on one of the best Xbox Series X accessories like the Seagate Storage Expansion Card and you're all set to embrace the best Xbox Game Pass titles.
Gaming With Marvel's Spider-Man 2 for the PlayStation 5 released and already receiving rave reviews, gamers who haven't played its predecessor, Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales, may want to take advantage of Walmart's offer. Instead of $70, you can get the game's Ultimate Edition for just $43, for savings of $27. On top of that, you'll also get a digital copy of Marvel's Spider-Man Remastered. That's a lot of value from one of the most attractive PS5 game deals that we've come across recently, which is why we don't expect this bargain to last long. Buy it now while you still can.
Why you should buy Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales for PS5 Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales continues the story of Marvel's Spider-Man, but shifts the focus on the titular character amid the chaos of New York. There's a lot of similarities between Miles Morales and Peter Parker -- including their acrobatic web-slinging and explosive combat skills -- but there are also significant differences such as Miles' bio-electric venom blast attacks and camouflage power. You'll have to master them quickly though, as a war has broken out in the middle of the city.
Gaming If you were planning to buy a new video game console from Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023 but you missed them for some reason, don't worry because some of the Prime Day deals that other retailers launched are still online. Here's one of those offers -- the Microsoft Xbox Series X with Diablo 4 bundle for just $500, following a $60 discount from Best Buy on its original price of $560. We're not sure how long it will stay cheaper than usual though, so if you're interested, you're going to have to push through with the transaction as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the Microsoft Xbox Series X The Microsoft Xbox Series X is an extremely powerful video game console with 12 teraflops of raw graphic processing power, DirectX ray tracing, and gameplay of up to 120 frames per second. The 1TB capacity gives you plenty of space for your favorite titles and save data. You should check out the best Xbox Series X games to pick out the ones that interest you, and it's also highly recommended that you sign up for Xbox Game Pass so you'll have a massive library of streaming titles.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
