Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews ‘Marvel’s Spider-Man’ review 'Marvel's Spider-Man' slings and swings its way to the top of the superhero heap By Phil Hornshaw Close $59.99 Web-swinging and slinging feels great Lots of combat options keep things fresh Strong story with interesting characters Open world provides variety, not busywork Open world events can become repetitive There might not be a better superhero for an open-world game than Spider-Man.
I heart New York A Spider-Man of a certain age Spider-Man won’t rob you Our Take Spidey brings two key elements that work extremely well for games — his job as a city-spanning crime fighter who tangles with both two-bit hoods and murder-happy supervillains; and his fast, agile movement. In Marvel’s Spider-Man , working through the story, zipping around the city, punching muggers, and catching pigeons are all compelling in their own ways.
All Gold Ball locations in Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name What is the code to the Lizard’s lab in Spider-Man 2? Spider-Man 2 Just Let Go trophy guide: Where to find the science trophy Spider-Man is a rare open-world game that feels like it supports the story and characters. In a genre that now has plenty of entries, and where games are often filled with to busywork, Spider-Man ‘s activities and emphasis on freedom and travel all feel in line with the experience of being Spider-Man.
Developer Insomniac Games’ focus on tight controls, fluid movement, and a combination of slick, fun-to-deploy abilities elevates Marvel’s Spider-Man to the hallowed halls of beloved superhero games, including those past titles that starred its protagonist. It revels in the experience of playing Spider-Man, from its web-swinging to its storytelling.
I heart New York Spider-Man and New York always come as a pair, and Insomniac’s version of the Marvel-ified Manhattan is as much a character as Spidey himself. The game’s first moments find Spider-Man heaving himself out his apartment window and swinging through the city, and instantly it’s clear that moving through Manhattan is the focus of the game.
Swinging through the city is an essential part of Spider-Man. The game nails it from the start, then improves it over time with unlockable abilities. It requires just enough strategic thinking to be interesting — you need to plan routes to make sure there are sufficiently tall structures around to hit with webs, and speed is governed by carefully timing when you start and end swings — without demanding superhuman reactions to become skilled. Getting around New York is just as much fun as wailing on bad guys or sneakily webbing a bunch of mercs before they know you’re there.
Complete Spider-Man Coverage A new superhero’s guide to Spider-Man The best Spider-Man suits and mods How to beat the Taskmaster Challenges Spider-Man’s accessibility options, from the people who benefit from them Spider-Man is full of stuff to do, but the game balances its challenges to provide variety. Ambient crimes that pop up in the world for Spidey to stop, for instance, include taking out bad guys who don’t see you coming, smacking down muggers or storefront robbers, and stopping car thieves and high-speed chases. Skill-based challenges, like chasing down drones, will hone your web-slinging skills. You’ll even track down the game’s landmarks for Spider-Man to take photos, offering a reason to explore both the Marvel universe and real-life Manhattan.
These tasks might feel more repetitive if not for a combat system that only gets better and better over time. Insomniac took a page from Spider-Man games past, as well as some clear inspiration from Rocksteady’s highly successful Arkham series of Batman games, to help Spidey take down whole crowds of enemies with finesse.
Combat is about knocking guys out, as well as avoiding incoming attacks. At first, you’ll often mash the “square” button to punch guys while using Spider-Man’s spider-sense to dodge incoming danger. However, there’s a buffet of unlockable gadgets and moves that quickly turn combat into a game of improvisation. You can be lazy and mash counter-attacks to win in most fights, but Spider-Man is a lot more fun when you’re webbing enemies into walls, swing-kicking them off buildings, throwing them into each other, and chucking their own grenades back at them.
A Spider-Man of a certain age One of the best things about Marvel’s Spider-Man is how well it’s able to wed open-world freedom with a cinematic superhero story. When Spider-Man settles into its story, it carries all the hallmarks of a great blockbuster movie.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The game finds Peter Parker, aka Spider-Man, eight years into his successful career as a superhero. That means he’s no longer in high school or college, but striking out into the world on his own, and trying to find his place in it. As is usually the case, Peter is trying, and sometimes failing, to balance his obligations as protector of the city with those of his actual life. Spider-Man’s commitments make Peter chronically late and force him to bail on his friends and family, and it seemingly costs him his relationship with longtime love interest Mary-Jane Watson.
The game’s open-world feel melds well with its cinematic story.
The game starts with Spidey and the police taking down his organized crime nemesis, the Kingpin, which at first seems like it might end the need for a full-time Web-slinger. Suddenly, Spidey is finding himself thinking about what he might want to do with a life that’s all about not punching bad guys. He begins to think he can do more good with his Peter Parker smarts than his Spider-Man strength.
Of course, those ruminations don’t last. With Fisk gone, the rogue elements his power held at bay start to grow in New York, including a new supervillain named Mister Negative and his gang of mask-wearing henchmen called Demons. Figuring out what Mister Negative is up to means punching minions, but it also includes some exciting, fast-paced boss fights with a variety of villains. There’s even a few stealth missions, in which you play as Mary-Jane, that break up the action and add a detective hook.
Marvel’s Spider-Man is almost two games in this respect — it’s a strong open-world game with a lot of freedom, and it’s balanced, cinematic action game that uses a cast of well-loved, compelling characters to tell a story about how people respond to trauma and what mark they’re willing to leave.
To the game’s credit, its villains (of whom there are several) aren’t especially cut and dried — while there’s plenty of baddies to beat down, the compelling key characters keep the story from devolving into a series of meaningless action sequences.
Spider-Man won’t rob you Unlike many big, blockbuster games, Marvel’s Spider-Man has no online component and no micro-transactions. Instead, the game offers three downloadable story chapters together called The City That Never Sleeps.
The first piece of the saga, The Heist , centers around the complicated relationship between Peter and Black Cat. Over the course of three hours, the two exchange barbs and get into numerous death-defying situations with a dangerous crime family.
The Heist introduces a new large enemy carrying a ridiculous minigun that forces you to dive deep into your move set and gadgets to take him down. Once again, both the web-slinging action and story beats excel and its cliffhanger has us anxiously awaiting part two.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If The Heist is any indication, each piece of story DLC will load into a new instance of New York City, complete with new crime scenes, collectibles, and challenges.
Part two of The City That Never Sleeps , titled Turf Wars , releases in November, with Silver Lining on tap to finish the saga in December. Each DLC can be purchased for $10, or you can save five bucks by picking up The City That Never Sleeps pass for $25.
Our Take While Marvel’s Spider-Man occasionally bogs down in the weaker parts of the open-world genre — some of the upgrade systems funnel you into completing a ton of open-world activities, and those activities can get repetitive — it’s a phenomenal effort and a strong realization of what people like about big open places they can explore at their own pace.
Spider-Man’s character even makes side-quests feel natural. He’s known for stopping muggings, saving pet pigeons, and fighting a villain who can level a building – all in a day’s work.
Marvel’s Spider-Man brings it all together in a package that perfectly captures what it’s like to be Spider-Man, from climbing on walls to struggling with personal relationships. It deserves to swing its way into the annals of great, beloved superhero games.
Is there a better alternative? In the realm of open-world games, Marvel’s Spider-Man is one of the rare entries that doesn’t feel overfull, overlong, or wasteful. You’d be hard-pressed to find a stronger entry in the genre, and it’s a great superhero game to boot — only Rocksteady’s Arkham series comes to mind as a strong alternative.
How long will it last? The main story campaign can pass by quickly for dedicated players — we finished it in around 12 hours — but the extra open-world content can take as long as twice that to finish.
The Heist story DLC adds about three hours to the adventure, and two more mini-campaigns will round out The City That Never Sleeps.
Insomniac also has downloadable content planned that will further extend the hour count.
Should you buy it? Absolutely. Whether a fan of Spider-Man himself, the open-world genre, or action games in general, Marvel’s Spider-Man is an excellent example of each.
Editors' Recommendations The best PS5 exclusives The best PS5 games for 2023 How to change suits in Spider-Man 2 Where to find Aunt May’s grave in Spider-Man 2 All suits in Spider-Man 2 and how to get them Comic Book Movies Game Reviews Marvel Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming The character of Spider-Man is only half of what makes him so interesting. Peter Parker, the man behind the mask, is just as vital to the story as his alter ego in Spider-Man 2. Just as he is in the comics and the first game, Peter is a scientist by trade, and Miles Morales is following in his footsteps in many ways, which is the perfect excuse to introduce some new science-focused puzzles into the game. One new puzzle has you examining different scenes to try and work out what exactly happened so you can determine the materials that were left behind. This puzzle is thrown at the player rather quickly and without much explanation, so we're here to brush up your molecular knowledge so you can solve these with ease.
How to solve molecular identification puzzles When you first start off ,you will be shown a 3D model of some molecule with green, red, and sometimes yellow nodes. Your goal is to remove all the red nodes without destroying any of the green. Yellow can be left or destroyed.
Gaming The opening sequence of Spider-Man 2 is a massive, technical showpiece of an encounter with the iconic villain Sandman, aka Flint Marko. Despite Peter and Miles thwarting the villain's rampage in the opening hours, his impact on the map -- and the game at large -- is far from over. Even after being sent away to prison on The Raft, Sandman has left behind mysterious crystals that are causing trouble all across the city. These become one of the many side activities you can participate in between main missions for some extra rewards like City Tokens. While they are all optional, completing each of these Marko's Memories activities does uncover a narrative about the troubled man and someone close to him that is well worth exploring. Besides, you will need to clean them all up if you want to fully complete the game anyway, so let's detail where you can find each of Marko's Memories in Spider-Man 2.
Where to find Marko's Memories There are 14 crystals scattered across the various boroughs of Spider-Man 2's New York, but just like with other collectibles like Prowler Stashes, you will have to wait for some to unlock as you make story progress. Additionally, the 14th and final memory won't be available until you've gotten all the others, and it leads to the quest's final objective. These will show up as an orange crystal on your map, but you can also spot them from all the sand they create around the area. When you approach one, you will need to fight a few waves of sand enemies before you can grab the crystal, crack it open, and hear the memory inside. Here's which borough you should be looking for them in, and how many there are in each.
Gaming It seems like a requirement for superhero games to bring in a villain just to set up challenges for the hero to complete. In the first Spider-Man, this was Taskmaster, but in Spider-Man 2, we get Mysterio and his Mysterium challenges. Not only are they simply fun ways to test your spider skills against some unique trials, but you can also get your hands on some Hero Tokens for performing well. Plus, you also get a little more insight into this unique former villain. That's all well and good, but by this point in the game, you should know that you won't be given the exact locations for each challenge right away. If your spider-sense is failing you on where to find all the Mysteriums in Spider-Man 2, we'll mark your map so you can swing straight to the action.
All Mysterium locations and requirements Mysteriums, also known as mysterium dev diaries, unlock after you complete Chapter 12 of the main game. This is the chapter where you first meet Mysterio at the carnival while playing as Miles and go through his attraction. Once you beat this chapter, a few Mysteriums will appear on your map, but more will pop up as you continue to go through the story. You need to do them all as Miles, and each rank earns you Hero Tokens. Here is where you can find them all.
Under Construction - Harlem This is a "defeat all enemies"-style challenge, but these always come with a twist. In this case, around halfway through the challenge, poison gas will fill the arena and constantly drain your health. You can heal to recover, but if you're on a good pace and have upgraded your health, then you should concentrate on using your Focus for finishers to complete the challenge faster.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
