Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Overwatch 2 Junker Queen guide: abilities, strategies, counters, and more By Jesse Lennox Close The hero roster for Overwatch 2 is massive. Not only do you have the entire cast returning from the first game, but there will be three brand new heroes right at launch, plus even more scheduled to come in later seasons. Naturally, these new heroes will be the most appealing for anyone who has been playing the game for a long time and is looking for a new experience. Each of the three new heroes, Sojourn , Kiriko , and Junker Queen, fill one of the game’s three roles of Damage, Support, and Tank.
Junker Queen overview Junker Queen abilities Best way to play Junker Queen What characters counter Junker Queen Junker Queen is the new Tank class hero, which has been given a lot more importance in the meta with Overwatch 2.
 Now that the game has slimmed down the team sizes to just five-versus-five, with only one Tank allowed per team, whoever fills that role has a lot of responsibility on their shoulders. If you’re picking Junker Queen, it would be wise to at least know a few tactics before launching into a competitive match where an entire team is depending on you. Here’s a full Junker Queen guide to get you started.
See more Overwatch 2: How to merge your accounts Every Overwatch 2 character confirmed so far Overwatch 2 battle pass explained Junker Queen overview Junker Queen, as a Tank, is meant to be in the fight for the long haul. She’s on the more offensive end of the Tank spectrum, though she shouldn’t be the one leading the charge without backup. She comes packing a Scattergun, which is a shotgun that, as you would expect, does best up close and personal. Its primary fire is a basic blast, with six shots before a reload is needed. Her other weapon is tied to her melee. Instead of a basic punch or swinging her gun, Junker Queen has a knife she will whip out that not only hurts on impact but inflicts a wound on enemies that deals damage over time.
Spider-Man 2 Just Let Go trophy guide: Where to find the science trophy All suits in Spider-Man 2 and how to get them All photo-op locations in Spider-Man 2 That damage over time is important because of her passive, Adrenaline Rush. This converts all damage dealt through wounds into restored health for Junker Queen.
Junker Queen abilities Image used with permission by copyright holder Jagged Blade: When beginning an encounter where enemies are outside of shotgun or melee range, this will be your opening gambit. When used, this move throws Junker Queen’s knife, which has the same wound effects as her melee, but has an extra function as well. After the knife goes its max distance, it will return like Thor’s hammer, and any enemy it hits on the return trip will be pulled toward Junker Queen for follow-up attacks.
Commanding Shout: This is a team buff, but it really is centered around Junker Queen herself. It will boost her own HP by 200 points, plus increase any teammate’s by 50 and give everyone a 30% movement speed buff.
Carnage: This is a great gap closer. With it, Junker Queen rockets forward, swinging her ax in a wide arc that hits for 90 damage and also causes wounds on anyone hit.
Rampage: Finally, Junker Queen’s ultimate has her rocket forward, spinning her ax like a propeller blade. Not only does this do damage plus inflict wounds, but it also prevents any target you hit from getting healed for a short duration of time.
Best way to play Junker Queen Image used with permission by copyright holder Based on her abilities, Junker Queen is clearly meant to be a very offensive Tank. While her primary weapons are all close-range, she has a number of ways to either draw enemies in or close the gap herself. Plus, thanks to her Adrenaline Rush passive, most attacks end up giving her healing so she can stay aggressive for longer even without a Support hero giving her their full attention. The only instances where you will want to back off are in open areas where enemies can stay at range and pick off your health.
Junker Queen’s abilities, specifically her Jagged Blade and Carnage abilities, combo very well with one another. Your Commanding Shout is a perfect backup plan to keep in your pocket for dire circumstances or when you want to turn the tides of a push and really get aggressive.
Rampage will take some good positioning and timing, but if you manage to clash with a group of enemies, it will rip right through them, plus make any follow-up eliminations easy thanks to its effect of removing their ability to be healed.
What characters counter Junker Queen Image used with permission by copyright holder Junker Queen is a beast at close range, so most long-range heroes prove to be quite difficult to deal with. Ana, in particular, with her Sleep Dart and Biotic Grenade, can shut Junker Queen down without much recourse. Widowmaker likewise has an easy time staying safe and hitting such a big target.
For Damage classes, Pharah is Junker Queen’s worst nightmare. Not only is she again an easy target for missiles, but Pharah’s ability to stay high up in the air makes her nearly untouchable. Plus, even if you manage to get close, Pharah has her Concussive blast to fall back on to escape.
Editors' Recommendations Which class should you pick in The Finals? Where to find Aunt May’s grave in Spider-Man 2 All Mysterium locations in Spider-Man 2 All Prowler Stash locations in Spider-Man 2 How to get Hero Tokens in Spider-Man 2 Gaming Amid all the different tokens, memories, and photo-ops you need to collect in Marvel's Spider-Man 2, the one material that is both the most common and most necessary is Tech Parts. With the exception of your abilities, which only require skill points you earn by leveling up, essentially everything you can unlock or upgrade in the game will cost Tech Parts alongside one other material. You might think you will never run low early on when you start getting them in batches of over 100 at a time, but once you start unlocking all the slick new suits and styles and gadgets you want to upgrade, you'll realize just how desperate you are to get more. Your spider-sense can't help you with this one, so here are the best ways you can get Tech Parts in Spider-Man 2.
Best ways to get Tech Parts Tech Parts are the most basic upgrade component in Spider-Man 2, and the city is full of them. But you're better off using these methods to get them rather than others.
Gaming Now that Peter and Miles are sharing the spotlight as dual Spider-Men in Marvel's Spider-Man 2, you probably expect each to come with their own skill trees. You wouldn't be wrong for thinking that, but it isn't just two sets of abilities you need to juggle -- it's three. Not only do Peter and Miles each have their own bespoke skill trees to upgrade their specific abilities and powers, such as Miles' Venom abilities and Peter's Symbiote ones, but there is a shared tree that grants both Spider-Men new attacks and moves. This gives you more skills to choose than ever, but not necessarily more skill points to spend on them. Unlike Hero or City Tokens and Tech Parts, you only get new skill points when you level up. Here are the best skills on these new skill webs that you should unlock in Spider-Man 2.
The best shared skills For the most part, all three skill trees are linear. However, unlike the Suit Tech upgrades, the points where there are branches are not mutually exclusive. If you've got the skill points to spend, you can fill out an entire branch without having to pick and choose between abilities.
Web Whip We can't really blame enemies for packing ranged weapons when the alternative would be to duke it out face-to-face with a superhero, but it doesn't make them any less annoying when you have to interrupt your combo to dodge a shot from far off. By hitting triangle and R1, you can snag that pesky gun and throw it back at your attacker to even the playing field.
Bounce Up It isn't super realistic, but you can't deny how fun air combos are in Spider-Man 2. If you want to really juggle your prey for as long as possible, adding the Bounce Up skill lets you slam an enemy down with triangle and bounce them back up into the air to reset your air combo.
KO Recharge Abilities take a long time to come back, but there are a few skills that can speed things up. The best of the bunch is KO Recharge, which restores some of your abilities for every KO, finisher, or stealth takedown you pull off. There are other ability recharging skills you could invest in, but you will always be KOing enemies, so this is the most reliable.
Web Line Double Takedown Speaking of stealth takedowns, the only downside to stealth is that it can be a little tedious webbing up criminals one at a time. This is especially true when multiple goons are hanging out near each other and will notice if you try and snag their buddies. This move only works when you're on a web line, but does let you stealth takedown two enemies at once rather than just one.
The best Peter Parker skills Gaming Peter and Miles are all suited up and ready to take on Kraven, Venom, and any other villains that threaten the new and improved New York when Spider-Man 2 arrives on October 20. This PS5 exclusive is shaping up to be one of the fall's biggest titles, which is saying something considering the competition. Still, everyone is waiting to finally feel that sensation of swinging through the buildings once again, and the wait is finally almost over. Even though the game will let you fast travel and switch between characters instantly, downloading the game itself is another story. We'll help you swing right into the game by sharing all the preload information you need on Spider-Man 2.
Spider-Man 2 release time There's no concrete time for when Spider-Man 2 will unlock as of yet, but it could possibly be 12 a.m. PT or ET on October 20. Once Insomniac or Sony clarifies the specific launch time for the game, we will update this article.
Spider-Man 2 file size Spider-Man 2 will take up a good chunk of your storage space at 98BG in size. If you need to make some room, do so now.
Spider-Man 2 preload options Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
