Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Overwatch 2 Sojourn guide: abilities, strategies, counters, and more By Jesse Lennox Close The most exciting part of any Overwatch update, or in this case sequel, is the new heroes.
Overwatch 2 launched with not one, but three brand new heroes across its three classes to expand the already impressive roster. The cast of Overwatch was already quite diverse in terms of design, but also how each hero functioned, with unique abilities, strengths, and roles in the competitive shooter. The new additions for Overwatch 2 include Sojourn, Kiriko , and Junker Queen.
Sojourn overview Sojourn abilities Best ways to play Sojourn What characters counter Sojourn Damage heroes are generally the most popular of the three main roles. They are the most offensive-focused and allow players to get into the action directly with high-powered weapons and abilities. Sojourn fits the bill in this regard, but like every class, has a set of abilities that make her shine differently than the others. If you want to master this Damage class hero, here’s a full guide on Sojourn for Overwatch 2.
See more Overwatch 2: How to merge your accounts Every Overwatch 2 character confirmed so far Overwatch 2 battle pass explained Sojourn overview The Canadian hero Sojourn comes packing a railgun with two firing modes. You can either shoot rapid-fire projectiles like a traditional rifle, or a beam that is charged up whenever you deal damage with the primary fire. When fully charged, this railgun shot is extremely potent, even able to take down other Damage class heroes in a single shot if they have 200 health. Of course, like most Damage class heroes, she is very skill dependent — you will need to be able to land shots and have good positioning to make the most of her tool kit.
Everything announced at BlizzCon 2023: Diablo 4 DLC, Cataclysm Classic, and more The best weapons in Remnant 2 Overwatch 2 is coming to Steam, and more Blizzard games may soon be on the way To help keep Sojourn not only mobile but a more slippery target is her Power Slide, which you can use to dip in and out of fights, get to advantageous positions on the map, or just speed up your basic movement. Using this skill often, but also being able to still land your shots, is key to doing well with Sojourn.
Sojourn abilities Power Slide: We touched on this skill a bit, but what it does is let Sojourn slide along the ground, similar to a slide in other FPS games like Apex Legends, but instead of slowing down, she gains speed thanks to her mechanical legs having thrusters. On top of that, if you jump before the slide ends you will get a super-jump of sorts.
Disruptor Shot: This special shot launches an energy projectile that will create a field wherever it lands that slows and deals a little damage over time to any enemies inside it, making it great for area denial. If an enemy is within the zone for the entire duration, it will deal about 200 damage.
Overclock: Sojourn’s ultimate is a little underwhelming when described, but is very potent in the right hands. When activated, Sojourn’s secondary railgun shot will automatically charge over time, regardless of whether or not you’re landing regular shots. Plus, when you do let off a railgun bolt, it will also be buffed to pierce enemies, meaning you can hit multiple targets if they’re fortunate enough to line up for you.
Best ways to play Sojourn Image used with permission by copyright holder When picking Sojourn, you are going to be on the front lines of battle and relying heavily on your ability to land shots with your primary weapon. The Disruptor Shot is your only other real offensive option, though it has quite a long cooldown and isn’t likely to get any eliminations on its own. Instead, focus on laying down primary fire, sliding to stay mobile and avoid damage yourself, and building up your railgun charge.
Sojourn is most deadly at medium range. Here you can most effectively land your primary shots and then finish off weakened opponents with a precise railgun shot. While it isn’t useless to engage from longer ranges, know that Sojourn’s attacks are not hit-scan, meaning they have travel time and can be dodged. Stay in on the action, always be mobile, and remember that she has no way to heal herself. so coordinate with your Support heroes to stay healthy.
What characters counter Sojourn Image used with permission by copyright holder Another Damage class Sojourn really struggles with is Pharah. Due to Pharah’s ability to stay airborne and attack from longer ranges, it is very difficult to land your primary shots on her. If you have a railgun shot already charged, it can help, but this is usually one duel you will want to avoid.
You will also want to keep out of range of close-range heroes like Reaper, Tracer, and Reinhardt that can out-damage you in tight quarters. Keep at a medium distance, and use your slide to escape bad matchups, and Sojourn will work well on any team.
Editors' Recommendations Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: Mercenary Convoy guide Spider-Man 2 Just Let Go trophy guide: Where to find the science trophy The best weapon mods in Remnant 2 Overwatch 2’s newest hero Lifeweaver is a game-changer for support players Ark 2: release date speculation, platforms, trailers, gameplay, and more PC Gaming Gaming After a few weeks of leaks and rumors, Valve has finally announced that Counter-Strike 2 will be launching this summer as a free update to CS:GO.
Valve is describing Counter-Strike 2 as an “overhaul to every system, every piece of content, and every part of the C-S experience” and “the largest technical leap forward in Counter-Strike’s history," promising years of support for the game. It sounds a lot similar to how Blizzard handled the jump to Overwatch 2.
Gaming As part of the Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 Season 2 Reloaded update, Activision has added the next raid, titled Atomgrad Episode 2. It picks up right where the first episode left off, and follows a similar format, throwing you into difficult battles against enemy AI. As with the first raid, Episode 2 requires you to have three players to start -- with no matchmaking available.
Once you've put together a three-player group, you'll be able to jump in and start Atomgrad Episode 2. Keep in mind that you will need to have purchased Modern Warfare 2 to begin.
Gaming For months after launch, Perks in Call of Duty: Warzone 2.0 were been broken. Even after securing your loadout, certain Perks would fail to activate, resulting in an entirely useless mechanic overall. Likewise, you weren't actually able to customize which Perks were associated with a loadout, and instead, had to utilize Perk Packages. These had preset Perks tied to each, offering very little in the way of customization.
Thankfully, Activision finally issued a patch to fix Perks and Perk Packages, allowing players to make better use of these bonus abilities.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
