Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This PS5 bundle just got a price cut for the holidays By Jennifer Allen Close Sony Over at Walmart, there’s currently one of the best PlayStation deals we’ve seen in a while with $60 off the PlayStation 5 disc console with Marvel’s Spider-Man 2.
 Usually priced at $559, it’s down to $499 as part of Walmart’s early Black Friday deals.
 If you’re looking to buy a PlayStation 5 for yourself or as a gift for someone, check it out now by hitting the button below.
The PlayStation 5 matches all the expectations you’d have of one of the latest games consoles. It’s incredibly fast in every way. That means that games load fast but they also look amazing. Even simply browsing your console is speedy and efficient.
While its storage space is a little limited at 667GB of available space, you can always upgrade it with one of the best SSDs for PS5.
 From there, you can easily add some of the best PS5 games around with titles like Baldur’s Gate 3 , God of War Ragnarok and — of course — Marvel’s Spider-Man 2.
 The ultimate way to feel like Spider-Man, it’s a truly exceptional game with a phenomenal story. There are loads of games to discover for every mood and taste.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Alongside all that, you also have the benefits of the PlayStation 5 ’s controller. The DualSense is fantastic thanks to it refining haptic feedback and incorporating a precise sense of touch. With its adaptive triggers, you can have more control over what you’re doing proving useful for swinging through the skies but also taking a shot in a first-person shooter. It all adds up to provide a stunning experience unlike any other console. You also benefit from things like 3D audio via built-in TV speakers or stereo headphones with Tempest 3D AudioTech also possible depending on your setup.
The PlayStation 5 disc console with Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 is currently $60 off at Walmart as part of its early Black Friday deals so you pay $499 instead of $559. A great saving on a must-have console, you’ll adore everything this has to offer. Check it out now before the deal ends soon.
Editors' Recommendations The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Best PS5 SSD Black Friday deals: Add more storage to your PS5 now Early PS5 controller Black Friday deal saves you $20 on an official model Best gaming laptop deals: Game on the go from just $550 All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Deals Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Computing Building your own PC from scratch can be a lot of fun, but if you aren't tech-savvy or don't have the time to do it, then going for a pre-built PC is a great option. While you will lose a little bit of money in the process for assembly and parts, there are a lot of great gaming PC deals you can take advantage of to mitigate that issue. You also get the PC essentially ready to plug and play so that you can jump right into the best PC games out there and have some fun and entertainment.
So, if you're ready for an upgrade, this Legion Tower 7i is a great option, given that it comes with the impressive RTX 4080 graphics card. That will let you play many games, including AAAs, without too much issue, even on higher-end monitors. Even better, Lenovo is heavily discounting it to $2,350 instead of the usual $2,990 it goes for. That's a steep $640 that's being knocked off the price, and Lenovo even throws in three months of Xbox Game Pass, so this is an excellent deal all-around.
Gaming day Grabbed one of the Nintendo Switch deals going on right now and want to add the best game for the system? Walmart has The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom on sale for only $48 so you save a massive $22 off the regular price of $70. Nintendo games don't always see deep discounts so this is the perfect time to snap up one of the games of the year for less. Here's what you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Gaming For one of the best Xbox Series X and Series S deals around, look no further than Walmart. Today, you can buy the Xbox Series X Forza Horizon 5 bundle for just $490 so you save $70 off the regular price of $560. If you're looking to start your holiday gift purchasing or you simply want a new console for yourself, this is a great deal. Check it out now by tapping the buy button below or keep reading while we tell you more about it.
Why you should buy the Xbox Series X Forza Horizon 5 bundle The Xbox Series X is a seriously powerful games console. While it might have a fairly divisive design being a very large black box, inside is some fantastic power. It has 12 teraflops of processing power and is capable of running games at 120 frames per second in 4K. It runs quietly too thanks to a great cooling design. Under the hood is 1TB of hard drive space which translates to 802GB of available space once you rule out the needs of the operating system. Tag on one of the best Xbox Series X accessories like the Seagate Storage Expansion Card and you're all set to embrace the best Xbox Game Pass titles.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
