Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Reviews Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart review: Another PS5 superhero spectacle By Giovanni Colantonio Close $70.00 Thrilling set pieces Lots of weapons Fantastic visuals Impressive tech Disjointed story Overeager DualSense support Insomniac sure know how to make a superhero game. Over the past few years, the studio has pumped out two excellent Spider-Man titles full of death-defying action and big-budget set pieces that could make Kevin Feige jealous. So it comes as no surprise that Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart is a full-blown Marvel movie turned video game.
Marvel’s Ratchet & Clank Lights, camera, action Big budget thrills Our take It’s a natural evolution for one of Sony’s most enduring first-party franchises. While it started out as a standard 3D platformer in an era where Sony was churning out animal mascots, it’s only pumped up the galactic spectacle over the past two decades with each new console. With Sony’s most impressive hardware to date in the PS5 , Insomniac Games can finally flex its Hollywood chops and turn the duo into convincing, pint-sized Avengers.
The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart is a technical powerhouse filled with thrilling platforming set pieces and bustling environments. Its arsenal of weapons doesn’t quite reach the creative highs of previous installments, but the visual razzle-dazzle makes for a fun summer blockbuster.
Marvel’s Ratchet & Clank Like previous games in the series, Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart is a third-person platformer that’s heavy on action. The titular Lombax hero Ratchet scours planets for collectibles while carving through waves of enemies, while the robotic Clank tackles puzzle interludes. That’s always been a winning formula for Insomniac, and the secret sauce hasn’t changed much here. Everything’s a little bigger and flashier, but the core gameplay is still a rock-solid foundation.
Playing through a world really feels like blazing through a different Hollywood action set piece.
The main difference this time is that the game plays around with alternate realities. Ratchet finds himself lost in a dimension where his rival Dr. Nefarious has finally gained control of the galaxy. It wouldn’t be a “mirror world” story without doppelgängers, so the game features a second Lombax named Rivet who players control just about every other level. Functionally, she’s exactly the same as Ratchet, which feels like a missed opportunity. Gear, weapons, and upgrades are shared between both Lombaxes, so it feels like playing the same character with a palette swap from planet to planet.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s hard to complain about that too much when the minute-to-minute Lombax gameplay is so fun. Each level is a finely crafted amusement park filled with exciting rides. When players aren’t searching for secrets or blasting enemies, they’re zipping off-ramps on the back of a bug or grinding on rollercoaster-like rails as explosions go off in every direction.
That’s where the superhero DNA really starts to become apparent. Playing through a world really feels like blazing through a different Hollywood action set piece. That can make the experience feel disjointed at times, as the game’s oddly convoluted story feels like a way to justify stitching dozens of disparate ideas together. But like any good blockbuster, it’s best enjoyed sitting back and letting the colorful sensory explosion take over.
No superhero movie is complete without some sidekicks. The Clank sections are sparse, but a perfectly fine change of pace. They revolve around simple ball puzzles where Clank has to safely lead projections of himself to an exit using orbs that can make them speed up, jump, and more. The more exciting side missions come from Glitch, a miniature mech that Ratchet deploys to fight off microscopic viruses. They’re little shooter sections that feature some mind-bending movement, effective haptic feedback, and the game’s most charming original character.
Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart isn’t the most narratively compelling adventure out there, but it delivers the same thrills as Insomniac’s Spider-Man games.
 The heroes are just a bit furrier.
Lights, camera, action The Ratchet & Clank series sets itself apart from other mascot platformers with its emphasis on action and that holds true here.
Rift Apart gives players a buffet of guns and grenades to experiment with. The game does an excellent job of incentivizing players to use them all rather than to pick one and call it a day. Every weapon can be leveled up, which expands its personal upgrade tree. I found myself cycling between my guns in every battle, genuinely driven to see what each one could do in its final form.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Compared to previous entries, the arsenal is a little tame this time around. There are plenty of returning favorites, but few of the new weapons feel as creative as tools like the Groovitron or Qwack-O-Matic, which turned enemies into ducks in Up Your Arsenal. The most memorable tool is the Topiary Sprinkler, which temporarily turns enemies into shrubs. That’s one of the few weapons that nails the slapstick combat the series excels at.
I found myself cycling between my guns in every battle, genuinely driven to see what each one could do in its final form.
It feels a bit like Insomniac played it straighter to better take advantage of the PS5 DualSense controller.
 Many guns have alternate fire modes or quirks that utilize the controller’s adaptive triggers. The Headhunter sniper zooms in closer depending on how hard the left trigger is held down, for example. Not every gun makes use of that idea, but the ones that do add a little extra depth to the shooting.
It’s a fun use of the tech, but it can admittedly be a pain point. And I mean a literal one. The trigger resistance gets physically exhausting. With a weapon like the Ricochet, players need to hammer down the right trigger multiple times to thwack enemies. The trigger press is so hard that I found myself switching to my middle finger just to give my pointer a break.
Returnal really nailed how to design gunplay around adaptive triggers with its alt-fire system, but I imagine many players will find themselves turning the feature off entirely here.
The gunplay is perhaps a little overworked to fit around the PS5 itself, which is something we’ve seen in games like Destruction AllStars.
 Even with those quirks, the combat is still joyously chaotic. When I electrify a creature with a gun, I create a perfect moment of “comic mischief” where my stunned enemy shakes in place like a cartoon character after sticking a fork in an outlet. Shooting a creature is always rewarded with some kind of detailed animation that’s a delight to watch.
Big budget thrills If Returnal is the best showcase of the PS5 controller, Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart is the game that best shows off the console itself. It’s a visually jaw-dropping game that plays like a CGI movie. There were moments where I didn’t even realize I had regained control of the character after fluidly coming out of a cutscene. The worlds are so intricately detailed that they look like they belong in a pre-rendered cinematic.
In a lot of ways, Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart is the best example of just how powerful this current generation of consoles is.
Take a location like the game’s opening world, a small slice of a bustling city. It isn’t just a few key buildings with some NPCs milling about. The sky is filled with flying cars zipping around overhead and neon signs blinking far off in the distance. For an even simpler pleasure, smack a wall of boxes and enjoy the particle explosion that ensues as hundreds of wood splinters and bolts fly off in every direction.
The real star of the show is the PS5’s SSD, which Insomniac takes full advantage of. Ratchet and Rivet get a tether that can be used to zip through portals, seamlessly teleporting them forward in a technical magic trick.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That’s especially useful for the whole alternate dimension angle. There are “pocket dimensions” scattered throughout levels, which take players to a completely different challenge stage with zero load time. Whenever games try to pull tricks like that, there’s always some secret seam that it uses to hide the wait. Just look at God of War, which uses a mystic zone to hide loading between areas. If those moments are happening behind the scenes in Rift Apart , they are entirely invisible.
In a lot of ways, Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart is the best example of just how powerful this current generation of consoles is. It delivers spectacle on top of spectacle, creating gaming’s own version of “movie magic.” I just wanted to dig into a bag of popcorn throughout the whole adventure.
Our take Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart is another great PS5 exclusive that really shows what the hardware is capable of. It’s a visually detailed platformer filled with three Iron Man movies worth of thrills. The shooting suffers a bit due to some overeager DualSense integration that’s a literal pain, but Insomniac has created a colorful blockbuster that’s loaded with good, old-fashioned comic mischief.
Is there a better alternative? If we’re considering this a superhero game (which it is), it’s about on par with Marvel’s Spider-Man.
Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury offers a fair bit more value as far as platformers go.
How long will it last? The story takes around 10-12 hours and I had hit 100% within 15. There are good reasons to play again though as weapons can be leveled up more the second time around.
Should you buy it? Yes. It’s another strong exclusive for the PS5 lineup and one that really gets the most out of the system.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 exclusives The best PS5 games for 2023 An internet connection is required to connect the new PS5’s disc drive PS5 slim vs. PS5: everything you need to know about the new PS5 model Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming PS Plus Premium is adding a new feature next month that will allow subscribers to cloud stream select PlayStation 5 games. The initial list includes heavy hitters like Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales and Horizon Forbidden West. Sony is targeting an October 30 launch in North America.
Cloud streaming has been one of the primary selling points of PS Plus since its relaunch last year. Subscribers can use the feature to access several games in the service's catalog, including PlayStation 3 games. The new feature will now extend that technology to newer PS5 releases, with Sony saying it plans to make "hundreds" of games streamable.
Gaming The newly redesigned PlayStation 5 is getting its own set of console covers sometime next year. Sony confirms to Digital Trends that several faceplate colors are slated to launch in 2024 but covers for the old PS5 models will not be compatible with the new systems.
One of the PS5's most unique features is its removable faceplates, which allow players to customize their console with new colors and designs. The new PS5 models will evolve that idea with a four-cover panel design that gives the system a slightly different look. Sony is already planning to make those customizable in the near future, according to a statement sent to Digital Trends.
Gaming The long-anticipated Bethesda RPG Starfield has finally been released and the reviews from players are looking great so far. Featuring the publisher's first new world in 25 years, Starfield is centered around endless space exploration — quite a different direction than Fallout's postapocalyptic America or The Elder Scroll's fantasy landscapes. While the game doesn't necessarily allow you to get lost in space like most players initially were looking forward to, it does contain plenty of excellent sci-fi standbys like multiverse theories, a vast pool of spaceships to pilot through galaxies, and some far-out futuristic weaponry.
Starfield launched on the Xbox Series X and PC (and Xbox One, sort of), but hasn't made its way to the PlayStation 5. While there are plenty of great games on PS5, some Sony gamers are still eagerly waiting for their chance to jump into the world of Starfield.
Will Starfield come to PS5? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
