Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews ‘Resident Evil 2’ review ‘Resident Evil 2' is a terrifying new virus you'll want to catch By Gabe Gurwin Close $59.99 Best-in-class visuals and sound design Terrific voice performances Control scheme makes action tense and satisfying Clever puzzles Movement speed is too slow Unnecessary retreading in second half Resident Evil 2 is considered a classic survival-horror game for a reason. Its zombie-infested Raccoon City is among the creepiest settings ever seen in the medium, successfully building on classic Romero-era tropes with its own lore, twists, and terrifying monsters.
A familiar face Welcome to your nightmare Put on your thinking cap DT Gameplay Our Take 20 years later, instead of slapping on a new coat of paint and tweaking the controls, Capcom has completely remade Resident Evil 2 from the ground up. It’s a game that feels like it used Resident Evil 7 as its framework — RE2 for a new generation — and all without losing the essence of Leon and Claire’s original journey.
Alan Wake 2 studio is rebooting its upcoming multiplayer project Bungie plots Destiny 2: The Final Shape overhaul in wake of mass layoffs All TV locations in Alan Wake 2 A familiar face The plot of Resident Evil 2 is identical to the original game, though individual events occasionally happen in different ways and the characterization has been modified. Left without orders during his first day in the Raccoon City Police Department, Leon S. Kennedy heads into the city to find it on the verge of total collapse, with infected creatures roaming the streets already ablaze and eating the remaining humans.
Claire Redfield , on the other hand, is looking for her brother Chris, and a chance interaction with Leon leads the two of them on a mission to regain control of the city and put a stop to the nefarious Umbrella Corporation.
It’s a small part of a story that has ballooned to include six other main installments, countless spinoff games, comics, novelizations, and even three animated movies.
Resident Evil 2 still manages to feel like a perfect entry point for new players. Aside from a few names and references to S.T.A.R.S. from the first Resident Evil , it essentially serves as the start of a story. Longtime fans will enjoy seeing the appearance of characters that would go on to be major figures in other titles.
Zombie screams are gruesome and gunshots ring out with an impressive amount of force.
Ada Wong and Sherry Birkin are both still heavily featured, and you get to play as each in segments that further explore their psyche and, in the case of Ada, her motivations. The backstories you’ve heard regarding some of the major characters have been altered, which makes RE2 worthwhile even for those with encyclopedic knowledge of the original release.
Welcome to your nightmare Taking place in more open-ended environments than in Resident Evil 7 ’s Louisiana mansion, Resident Evil 2 is even more terrifying. The police station – which serves as the setting for nearly half of the game – has surprises around every corner. Whether it’s a “Licker” ready to slash your throat or a grisly murder scene with fresh blood pooled on the floor, the Raccoon City Police Station will easily keep you in a state of fear with its plethora of horrors.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The power of the RE Engine allows for every gristly piece of flesh and every blood-stained tooth to come to life, and it looks particularly impressive on the PlayStation 4 Pro. Where Resident Evil 2 shines even more, though, is in its sound design. Zombie screams are gruesome and gunshots ring out with an impressive amount of force.
The upgrade to sound isn’t just window dressing, either. You must use audial cues to plan your next move. As a certain famous and nearly indestructible enemy attempts to locate you across different locations, you must listen for his footsteps, growing ever louder as he marches down the hallway. Make a wrong move, and you’re forced to go face-to-face with one of the scariest villains in video games.
Just like in the original game, completing one character’s storyline in Resident Evil 2 means you’re essentially halfway done with the game.
Fortunately, it’s much tougher to make a wrong move in 2019’s Resident Evil 2 because the control scheme and perspective have been overhauled to more closely resemble Resident Evil 4 and Resident Evil: Revelations 2.
 Using a tight over-the-shoulder camera angles and traditional third-person shooter aiming, Leon and Claire can quickly aim at the head, legs, arms, and oozing, blistering weak spots of an enemy before blasting off several rounds. Weapons have a sense of weight that makes it necessary to readjust after firing, all while enemies continue to close in.
By and large, combat feels satisfying and you have enough tools at your disposal – shotguns, grenade launchers, submachine guns, and heavy revolvers – to take out most threats you’ll come across. It also seems that in an effort to emphasize the “survival” aspect of survival-horror, it can sometimes take six or more headshots to fully kill a zombie. Granted, this is with some of the weaker weapons in the game, but getting a bite taken out of your neck after perfectly lining up a shot is still frustrating. Your running speed is also painfully slow, almost as if both protagonists pulled their hamstrings right before the game began.
Put on your thinking cap As is the case in most Resident Evil games, killing zombies is only half the fun in Resident Evil 2.
 Every location you visit is filled with puzzles, ranging from finding the correct key for a door to dispensing the right amount of herbicide into a vial. Solving these typically involves leaving and returning to a number of different areas, and searching for clues in the environment or in your inventory, all while keeping precious track of your supplies.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If you run low on healing items or ammunition, you’ll have to get creative when moving through infested areas. Luckily, the game’s location maps let you easily see all locked and unlocked doors, as well as any items you haven’t picked up in a particular room. New locations almost always give you enough resources to prepare for what lies ahead, but not more than enough. You’ll rarely feel fully confident, and that intensifies every single scare.
Just like in the original game, completing one character’s storyline in Resident Evil 2 means you’re essentially halfway done with the game. You then complete a second run using whichever character you didn’t use before, going through many of the same areas but with more context and a new perspective on why certain events occurred.
There’s no denying that Capcom has delivered an impressive remake fully worthy of its title.
It’s crucial to complete this part of the game in order to fully understand Resident Evil 2.
 Some changes in a few puzzles and scenarios give you more to do, but it does still feel like you’re retreading content you’ve already experienced, with odd continuity changes that make it feel less like the second half of the story and more like a second interpretation of the story.
Play through the “A” and “B” routes in Nier: Automata , which has a similar structure, and the game gives new details on what you experienced without ever contradicting itself, making it worthwhile to replay large sections of the game.
Resident Evil 2 , however, could benefit from only focusing on what is new. The novelty of fighting a tough new enemy is largely gone when you’re doing it again and already know all of its weaknesses.
DT Gameplay Our Take While Resident Evil 2 could have bettered its story structure for 2019, there’s no denying that Capcom has delivered an impressive remake fully worthy of its title. The scares, classic environments, and drama are all fully intact. With voice performances that aren’t laughable and an upgrade to the audio, it all feels way more believable and authentic.
Resident Evil 7 may have showed us that the series could exist as a first-person franchise, but Resident Evil 2 proves Capcom has plenty more to offer in the future.
Is there a better alternative? Not if you want to experience the Raccoon City story, though Resident Evil 7 is a slightly superior horror game.
How long will it last? Completing Leon and Claire’s portions of the story took us just under 16 hours, with most of that taking place in the first half.
Should you buy it? Yes.
Resident Evil 2 will please new and old fans alike.
Editors' Recommendations Baldur’s Gate 3 and Alan Wake 2 lead this year’s Game Awards nominations The best development nodes to unlock in Cities Skylines 2 All Lunchbox locations in Alan Wake 2 All Word of Power locations in Alan Wake 2 The best weapon upgrades in Alan Wake 2 Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Amid a wave of layoffs at Destiny developer and Sony subsidiary Bungie this week, Destiny 2: The Final Shape and Marathon have both reportedly been delayed.
On Monday morning, tweets from developers revealed that Bungie, which was acquired by Sony in January 2022, was suffering layoffs. This was followed up by a report from Bloomberg that went into more detail about the layoffs and their impact on Bungie's future games. Sony and Bungie have not officially commented on the delays yet, although the Bloomberg article mentions that Bungie CEO Pete Parsons will hold a team meeting later today to discuss the layoffs further. This all follows contractor layoffs at Sony studio Naughty Dog earlier this month, which happened as that studio struggles to develop and release a The Last of Us multiplayer game.
Bloomberg suggests that these layoffs, like others at Sony this year, are tied to internal game delays. While Destiny 2: The Final Shape is publicly slated to come out in February 2024, Bungie reportedly told staff that it's now going to come out in June 2024. Meanwhile, we learned that Bungie's revival of Marathon was apparently targeting a 2024 launch -- although no release window was given officially -- but will now come out sometime in 2025. These delays make the PlayStation 5's 2024 game lineup look pretty sparse right now outside of Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, and it suggests that Destiny 2's next season will be one of its longest.
As of now, Sony and Bungie have not publicly commented on the layoffs or delays, but we will update this post when they do say more about it.
Gaming Alan Wake is a famous writer, but neither he nor the new protagonist Saga are known for being particularly fond of nursery rhymes. Whether or not you fall into that category as well won't matter because Alan Wake 2 hides some very valuable rewards behind puzzles disguised as these small children's poems. Solving them involves a little bit of exploration, deductive reasoning, and then putting all the right pieces in place. This is one of the many optional cases in the game, and these rhymes are hidden across all the major zones in and around Bright Falls. If you're stumped on any of these nursery rhyme puzzles, here are all the solutions in Alan Wake 2.
All nursery rhyme answers There are 17 total nursery rhyme puzzles to find and solve in Alan Wake 2, broken up into all the different major locations. Whenever a puzzle involves placing dolls, make sure you pick up the dolls after solving it because they are needed for other puzzles in that area as well.
Cauldron Lake nursery rhymes The first rhyme puzzle you will come across is in the campsite you can access after the flooding has been removed. Cross the bridge and look immediately to the left. The solution is to take the Crow doll off the table and place it on the drawing of the sun.
Gaming While the first Alan Wake game certainly had plenty of scares and horror in it, the mechanics were not as strictly of the survival horror variety. Alan Wake 2 has gone fully in this direction, however, with a much darker tone, disturbing imagery, and restrictive combat mechanics that sustain the tension when The Taken attack.
Aside from limited ammo, low health, and tough enemies to bring down, a key aspect of survival horror games is an inventory system. The first game let you hold essentially as much ammo, batteries, and weapons as you wanted in each chapter, but the sequel introduces a grid system that will look familiar to Resident Evil fans. Just like Resident Evil, your inventory starts off quite small, but you can see there is plenty of space for it to grow. There are specific items hidden in and around Bright Falls that can let you expand your carrying capacity, but many are well hidden in dark corners. Here are the locations of every inventory upgrade in Alan Wake 2.
All inventory upgrades Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
