Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Resident Evil 4 Remake Review Is Resident Evil 4 Co-Op? Resident Evil 4 Remake PC Requirements Chapters in Resident Evil 4 Remake Best Resident Evil Games Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Resident Evil 4 review: all-time horror classic gets the bold remake it deserves By Giovanni Colantonio Close $59.99 A boldly reimagined story A more modernized feel Reworked locations are a step up Drastically improved combat Fantastic visual overhaul Escorting Ashley is still a pain Resident Evil 4 understands exactly what I want from a video game remake. When Dead Space got a redo earlier this year, I was left both impressed and underwhelmed in the same breath. It was an incredible technical feat that gave me a good excuse to replay a horror classic, but it didn’t deepen my relationship with the original in any way. Its 1:1 approach was faithful to a fault, as it mostly duplicated everything about the 2008 version, including my emotional connections to it. I can’t say the same for the 2023 version of Resident Evil 4 — this remake is its own beast.
Changes for the better Knife fight Shaping the future That’s an impressive feat considering how high the stakes were for Capcom. Remaking something that’s widely hailed as one of the greatest games of all time comes with a lot of pressure. It would be tempting to just take a Dead Space approach, modernizing its general feel while leaving its exact sequence of events entirely intact, but what would be the point in that? I could just fire up my GameCube and play the original or, better yet, jump into its excellent Wii port. For Resident Evil 4 to feel truly as special as it did in 2005, Capcom would need to go all out — and that’s exactly what it did.
This version of Resident Evil 4 isn’t just another indulgent double-dip for an enduring classic. It’s a truly transformative remake that isn’t afraid to throw out what didn’t work and put its own creative spin on everything from story to level design to its wildly improved combat. That makes for a refreshingly confident project that excels both as a look back to the past and a bold step forward for the series’ future.
Resident Evil 4’s best speedrunning glitch removed in latest update The best video game remakes of all time Resident Evil 4 Charms: all Charm effects and where to find them Changes for the better What immediately stands out when playing the remake is how much it emphasizes Resident Evil 4 ’s influence on the industry over the past two decades. While the 2023 version makes some significant changes, its primary goal is re-establishing the 2005 version as an important classic. As such, the general story and act structure remain intact. Government agent and Resident Evil 2 star Leon S. Kennedy gets called on a mission to extract the president’s daughter, Ashley Graham, from an isolated town in Spain. Rather than finding traditional zombies, he butts up against a religious cult that’s infected the locals with a mind-controlling virus called Las Plagas.
The more I played, the more I came to realize how modern games would not be where they are today without the original. In 2005, the action-heavy gameplay was a massive departure from the slow-paced survival horror of the Resident Evil series.
 Now, it’s almost become a template for what an action-adventure game looks and feels like. That’s made even clearer by a modernized remake that feels more like the games it would eventually inspire. With smoother gameplay and its early 2000s quirks ironed out, it feels like I’m playing a campier version of The Last of Us.
Capcom Every upgrade or change that’s been made here feels like it’s acting in service of that idea. Take its story, for instance. While I won’t go into specifics (most of the remake’s fun comes from discovering its new twists for yourself), there are some important tweaks that add much more detail to what’s a somewhat basic damsel-in-distress story by today’s standards. Characters have been more properly fleshed out to give the saga more emotional pull. Leon is more sincerely lovable this time around, shedding some dated writing and acting that made him more of an ironic himbo icon. Ashley benefits from that the most, as she’s no longer just a helpless buffoon who runs into obvious traps like a teen slasher victim. With more depth, it’s a lot easier to see how Leon and Ashley ran so Joel and Ellie from The Last of Us could … also run.
Several locations have been significantly redesigned too, replacing some of the original’s more generic corridors with detailed spaces that feel more like modern game set pieces. When I break into Los Iluminados’ castle in the remake, it feels more like I’m storming the gates of Elden Ring ’s Stormveil Castle.
 It’s a more intense sequence with swaths of cultists, fireballs smashing through the scenery, and a controllable cannon that I can use to blast enemies. It’s the series’ most thrilling moment to date. Other scenes have been reworked from the ground up entirely to make certain enemy introductions, like the infamous Garrador, much more dramatic. Whenever I review a remake, I always keep a YouTube video of the original up to compare them side by side. By the second half, they differed so much that it was almost like I was playing an entirely new game.
This version does what any truly good remake should do: It reinvents the source material and allows us to understand it in a new way.
As with any game that has so many strong feelings attached to it, I imagine that the remake’s sometimes drastic changes will be a point of debate. Some may feel a little disappointed that it trades in a bit of its cartoon charm for more modern AAA sensibilities. It’s still delightfully weird, but it’s less Scooby-Doo and more Hollywood blockbuster this time around. Having played it all the way through, that instinct seems perfectly reasonable to me. The goal is to reexamine the original through a modern lens, better connecting it to a series that has changed significantly since 2005. A perfect recreation simply wouldn’t have made sense post- Resident Evil 2 remake or even 2009’s Resident Evil: The Darkside Chronicles.
 Every story beat and design tweak gives the 2023 version its own distinct identity, connecting the original to the games it would inspire.
You want the goofier version of Resident Evil 4 ? There’s no shortage of ways to play it, and it’s still a perfectly enjoyable experience. But this version does what any truly good remake should do: It reinvents the source material and allows us to understand it in a new way.
Knife fight What I appreciate most here is that I never get the feeling Capcom is being too precious with the project. That confident approach allows it to step around all the dated pitfalls of the original and deliver new ideas that help the remake stand on its own apart from nostalgia. The best example of that comes in its combat system, which has been entirely revamped for the better.
In the original version, Leon would need to plant himself and stand still before shooting. It was a remnant of old Resident Evil games that seeped into the sequel’s DNA. That’s no longer the case here, as Leon can freely run and shoot now. That change alone makes gunplay much more exciting. The opening village shootout, for instance, is a more tense experience that had me trying to pick off waves of villagers while moving backward, hoping that I could clear them out before helplessly squeezing myself into a corner. Weapons can be switched very quickly too, which makes it easy to adapt to the changing power dynamics on the fly. If I ever backed into a wall, I could swap to my shotgun in an instant and deliver a desperation blast to cut my way back out.
Just as the original did in 2005, the new version of Resident Evil 4 once again delivers top-of-the-line action relative to its era.
The most impactful change, though, is an increased emphasis on melee combat. Leon can once again spin-kick stunned enemies, but knives are his most important weapon this time around. It’s a multipurpose tool that can be used to finish off downed enemies, save him when he’s grabbed, or parry attacks. In a smart modern flourish, Leon can even silently backstab unalerted enemies. It’s a surprisingly natural fit considering his new knife skills, one that feels like it was there all along. An added stealth element allows Leon to get the jump on an enemy or two, thinning out some thicker herds of enemies. And if you’re worried that might make the game easier, don’t fret. The remake throws significantly more enemies at Leon during encounters, creating some truly challenging fights.
When I really locked into the combat flow, I was astounded by how fluid it felt — especially since Resident Evil Village really struggled at a similar pace. In one encounter, I found myself walking down a narrow path while fending off an approaching army of villagers. Rather than planting myself and picking them off, the sequence was incredibly varied. I moved ahead while shooting at two enemies, stunning one with a shot to the head. I ran ahead and kicked that villager, knocking both down in one hit and following up with knife kills while they were down. As I moved forward, I hit a wall of enemies blocking a bridge. One threw an ax at m, and I deflected it in midair. The cart they were standing around exploded and I was unsure if that was a scripted event or if I had accidentally caused it with my parry. The fact that I’m not sure speaks volumes to how dynamic it all is.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In general, Resident Evil 4 does a much better job of allowing players to execute cinematic moments like that. This might be the only video game that ditches quick-time events instead of adding them, working the original’s massive button prompt sequences in more naturally. Anything that Leon could only do in interactive cutscenes can mostly be replicated in-game with a deeper combat system and more nuanced controls.
That approach can fight against the original game’s ideas just a touch. While escort sections where Leon needs to protect Ashley have been improved thanks to better AI, they can still be a hassle. With faster gameplay, it’s even easier to accidentally shoot her as she gets stuck in the middle of a busy fight. I got a fair amount of Game Overs from a stray bullet grazing her leg or a villager walking off with her because I was too preoccupied with a wave of attacking enemies. Leon’s movement speed feels a little slow for battles at times too, which makes trying to duck around enemies a little difficult (one boss fight had me dying a dozen times due to not being able to sprint away from a one-hit kill fast enough).
Those are nitpicks in the grand scheme of things, though. Just as the original did in 2005, the new version of Resident Evil 4 once again delivers top-of-the-line action relative to its era. I imagine it’s going to become a new standard for the series going forward, and that’s the part of this project that has me truly excited.
Shaping the future Capcom’s forward-thinking approach here goes a long way. While some remakes simply feel like they bring an old game up to speed and stop there, Resident Evil 4 feels like it’s been made to stand the test of time. That’s most apparent in its phenomenal visual update, which brings new personality to old spaces. More dynamic lighting, starker contrast, and painstakingly detailed environments make classic levels like the castle feel both more ominous and lived-in. They don’t just feel like generic hallways to traverse. It’s one of the best-looking games of this current console cycle and I imagine it’ll remain in that tier for a while.
Not a moment feels wasted and that’s revolutionary in an age of bloated single-player, open-world games.
Several of its other improvements here, even small quality-of-life ones, feel like they’ll become Resident Evil staples for the next 10 years. Take something as simple as its crafting system, for instance. It trades in the old “combine” guessing game for convenient mini-menus that show each possible recipe for every item and let players craft on the fly from there. It’s quick, easy, and likely here to stay.
Other aspects didn’t need much overhauling at all to feel future-ready, just some nudges to reinforce the 2005 version’s timeless strengths. For instance, the original game’s structure is still a work of beauty. It bounces between radically different set pieces — the village, the castle, an underground lab filled with regenerating bio horrors, etc. — without any of those ever feeling out of step with the wider setting and logic of its universe. That still holds true here, as any seams between acts have been smoothed over, and some smart story tweaks and better pacing overall have been added. Not a moment feels wasted, and that’s revolutionary in an age of bloated single-player, open-world games.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I notice that especially when I compare it to 2021’s Resident Evil Village , a modern series installment that tried to copy 4 ’s notes with mixed results. While it has a similar structural approach, drawing on a “horror theme park” concept, it’s done without the consistency we see here.
Village only nails half of its beats, but this version of 4 excels at everything it sets out to do. A knife fight with Jack Krauser, a harpoon battle with a parasite-ridden whale, or a deadly minecart ride — every left turn reminds me that there’s a good reason the original is still considered one of the best games of all time. It still outdoes games that had almost 20 years to catch up.
I’m thankful for the cosmic coincidence that put a Dead Space and Resident Evil 4 remake just months apart from one another. Both projects show two valid, but completely different paths forward for game remakes.
Dead Space just preserves the original, faithfully communicating what it was like playing it in 2008. As a counterpoint, Resident Evil 4 shows the value of careful reimagination.
 It isn’t just in conversation with the 2005 version, but with the two decades worth of games that sprung from it. It’s the past, present, and future of action-horror rolled up into an instant classic that stands side by side with its predecessor “Oh, by the way: Hope you like thrill rides,” a much more fleshed-out Luis says before one particularly wild sequence. I certainly do, pal. I certainly do.
Resident Evil 4 was reviewed on a PlayStation 5 hooked up to a TCL 6-Series R635.
Editors' Recommendations iPhone 15 Pro can natively run the latest Resident Evil and Assassin’s Creed games The best Resident Evil 4 mods Resident Evil 4 Shooting Gallery guide: locations, rewards, and tips Resident Evil 4: All Yellow Herb locations Resident Evil 4 locked drawers guide: all Small Key locations Game Reviews Product Reviews Resident Evil Gaming Leon clearly wasn't prepared for what he would encounter in the Resident Evil 4 remake or he would have come with more than a middling handgun and a knife. While those basic tools can get you through the opening stages of the game, it won't be long before you will need to call upon some much stronger firepower in order to survive the tougher -- and more grotesque -- monsters that stand in your way. The Resident Evil 4 remake offers a ton of weapons you can collect, such as pistols, SMGs, rifles, and more. However, most will cost a lot of cash -- and even more if you want to invest in their upgrades. You will have to make some tough choices about what weapons you want to stick with, and picking a dud can make your playthrough much more difficult. Instead of investing all your cash in a pea-shooter, check out the best weapons you can get in the Resident Evil 4 remake to blast your way through Ganados and Las Plagas alike.
The best weapons in Resident Evil 4 Red9 Where else could we start but with the Red9? Almost certainly the most popular handgun -- or gun in general -- from the original Resident Evil 4 has returned in the remake and is just as potent as ever. Not only can you grab this gun as early as Chapter 3, making it a great choice for investing your upgrades in, but it can be altered and has essentially no drawbacks. By default, the Red9's recoil is the primary point of criticism you could levy at it, but if you spend a few Spinels to give it the stock, you'll be able to basically snipe with this pistol. By the time you unlock the Exclusive upgrade, which multiplies the gun's power by 1.5x, you'll hardly ever find a situation where this handgun can't do the job.
Bolt Thrower The Bolt Thrower isn't on this list for its high power, accuracy, or anything that you would traditionally look for in a gun. The reason it has to be here is due to the simple fact that you can recover the bolts it shoots into enemies after they're dead to massively cut down on your ammo expenditure. Ammo for it is also crafted using knives, but it even has a secondary firing method where it launches mines, giving it a lot more utility. The Exclusive upgrade isn't game-changing -- it doubles the ammo capacity -- but the less you have to reload, the less often you'll be caught in a sticky situation.
Stingray In the rifle category, the Stingray is never going to let you down. This is a semiautomatic rifle, so the firing rate is mostly up to you, plus it has a great clip size by default. If you're hitting those weak points, this baby will also deal 3x damage, and can be outfitted with almost any scope. The Exclusive upgrade boosts your final firing rate by an additional 2x, which shouldn't be too necessary if you're trying to be precise, though can help in a pinch.
LE 5 The LE 5 is a weapon you can easily miss that is kind of like a good version of the Punisher in that it has amazing penetration power. Being an SMG, it also boasts a far greater firing rate and clip size, as well as more power. This is the perfect weapon to rip through any shield-wielding enemies. Again like the Punisher, the Exclusive upgrade allows the LE 5 to pierce up to five targets at once.
Broken Butterfly Another returning favorite, the Broken Butterfly magnum is not just the best-looking hand cannon in the game, but also the most deadly. If you don't count a special weapon like the Rocket Launcher, the Broken Butterfly (after upgrades) deals the most damage of any gun in the Resident Evil 4 remake. The Exclusive upgrade plays a major part in this by boosting its final damage by 1.5x, again just like the Red9, but magnum upgrades are among the most expensive in the game, so this power won't come easy.
Striker What's the worst part of a shotgun? The firing rate. Well, that is if you're not using the Striker. This semiautomatic shotgun spits out damage like nobody's business. It has power on par with any other shotgun, but way better firing speed, plus a massive clip size so you don't have to worry about running dry out an enemy in your face. If you get the Exclusive upgrade, you can even double the already huge clip size.
Rocket Launcher This is a big investment both in terms of cash and space, but the Rocket Launcher is too iconic to the series not to be amazing. Yes, this has a one-hit kill on just about everything and will cost more or less depending on what difficulty level you're playing on. It has no upgrades because, well, what is there to make better? Unless you're playing with the infinite ammo for it enabled, you do only get one shot, so make it count.
Primal Knife While technically not a gun, the knife is so good in the Resident Evil 4 remake that it has to be mentioned. This tool will save your skin more often than you think thanks to the new ability to parry and finish downed enemies, but the obvious drawback is durability. The Primal Knife has to be unlocked by finding and destroying all 16 of the Clockwork Castellans in the game. What makes it the clear frontrunner of all knives is the Exclusive upgrade that makes it completely unbreakable, no matter how much you use it.
Gaming In the opening chapters of the Resident Evil 4 remake, you will come across strange shrines erected by a cult. These can be interacted with, but prompt you to use an item. Unfortunately, you won't even have the chance to open the first couple you find since the item required to open them can't be picked up until a bit later -- and only if you know where to search for it. But it's ro say that the treasures you get from them make it worth your time to backtrack and grab all the goodies inside. Here's how you can open all the Wayshrines in the Resident Evil 4 remake, and what each one holds inside.
How to get the Wayshrine Key Surprise surprise, but Wayshrines can only be opened once you grab the Wayshrine Key. It will feel like a long time, but you can't even access the key until you reach Chapter 4 and beat Del Lago. Once you can explore the lake, head south to the Mural Cave. Deep in the caves, you will find an ornate cabinet after solving the puzzle in the cave. You can get there by going down the path from the southern dock and through the section with the two large stone hands. Thankfully, unlike Small Keys, the Wayshrine Key is reusable and can open every Wayshrine in the game.
How to 0pen Wayshrines Gaming The castle section of the Resident Evil 4 remake is one of the most diabolical. Aside from being visually distinct from the previous village area, this location is full of tougher enemies and deadlier traps. Once you've managed to escape from the dungeons and up into the castle proper, you will be blocked by a gate beside some images of a knight in different situations. Something is off about all of them, and one part missing entirely. This is the sword puzzle, but it isn't as straightforward as you might assume looking at it. Here's how to solve the Sword Puzzle and make your way into the Audience Chamber in Resident Evil 4.
How to solve the Castle Sword puzzle The first thing you'll notice about this puzzle is that there are four murals of the knight, but only three swords to pick up in this room. The last sword is behind another locked gate, but this one you can open. The gate has three animals on it, an eagle, deer, and snake, which correspond to three different plates. As each one is activated, the symbols on the gate will light up to show you're on the right track. The deer can be activated by pulling the chain beside the gate, while the second two are on the other side of the gate to the right and need to be shot.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
