Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Scarlet Nexus review: A deep story with even deeper action By DeAngelo Epps Close Unique combat A surprising story Fun characters Lengthy runtime Stylish visuals Weak exploration Heavy on backtracking There’s no shortage of Japanese action roleplaying games on the market, but Bandai Namco’s Scarlet Nexus is a new IP that stood out from the crowd and immediately caught my eye. After playing the demo that was released earlier this year, I knew I was in for a good time and I am overjoyed to find that my hunch was right.
A shocking story Psychokinetic beatdowns Yes there’s an RPG in there, too Our take Scarlet Nexus is a game that takes any expectations and pushes them aside by amazing players with new ideas in every direction. This “brainpunk” title takes place in a futuristic world where humans have found a way to use a hidden gene to unlock superpowers in certain people. That premise perfectly lends itself to both the gameplay and story, both of which pleasantly surprised me throughout the entirety of my experience.
Scarlet Nexus: 6 essential tips and tricks for beginners ‘Project Z’ is a new Dragon Ball action RPG that retells Goku’s origin story While the game starts off a bit slow and took a bit of time to get into, Scarlet Nexus is a worthwhile experience and a great addition to any JRPG collection thanks to its bombshell of a plot and gameplay.
A shocking story At the beginning of Scarlet Nexus, I had the impression that the story was going to be by the books with boilerplate characters. Thankfully, I was entirely wrong. While the characters can come off as trope checkmarks to anyone who has seen an anime in the last decade, they have so many memorable moments together that they quickly grew on me and I was left wanting to spend more time with them.
The world of Scarlet Nexus is a futuristic one where certain members of humanity have awakened to various superpowers thanks to a psionic hormone discovered in the brain. Along with that, there are Others, wonderfully designed mutants that come from the sky and feast on human brains. The Other Suppression Force (OSF) was formed to combat the zombie-like threat.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Things begin with players selecting either Kasane Randall or Yuito Sumeragi, two new recruits to the OSF who have very unique powers and skills. However, there is a lot more to this new duo than meets the eye, and that’s where Scarlet Nexus ‘ story really shines.
Those surprises are truly what make Scarlet Nexus ‘ plot so special — you just have to witness them for yourself.
Things begin as you’d expect with a story like this. You meet your teammates, undergo training, go on a mission or two, get to know one another, the usual. Then suddenly, one surprise begins to hit you after another, leading to a story with no brakes and tons of excitement. Before I knew it, I was finding characters to root for, jeering at others, and constantly wondering where things were going to go next. As is usually the case with a story like this, players will be left wondering just who and what they can trust and what they can’t.
I wish I could go even further in detail, but that would mean spoiling everything. Those surprises are truly what make Scarlet Nexus ‘ plot so special — you just have to witness them for yourself.
Psychokinetic beatdowns The story isn’t the only area where this game excels, as the gameplay also kept me glued to my screen. As early as the opening tutorial, Scarlet Nexus wants players to know that it isn’t like any other action RPGs. That’s thanks to its unique battle mechanic, which allows for some fun visuals, combos, and strategies.
The game has everything you’d expect from a character-driven action game/hack-and-slash title — perfect dodging, weapon attacks, and launchers. What sets it apart is its usage of the psychokinesis attacks and assist specials, which are what had me so interested in the title in the first place.
Image used with permission by copyright holder By holding R2, players consume a psychokinesis gauge. This allows players to control surrounding objects and toss them at enemies, scoring big damage. Attacks can be chained together with standard weapons and specials, with the chains growing longer and more elaborate as you level up, making way for some fun combos. As with any game that puts a big focus on combos and free-flowing combat, you can already guess what kind of things you’ll be seeing with this system, but it gets even wilder courtesy of the SAS mechanic.
As early as the opening tutorial, Scarlet Nexus wants players to know that it isn’t like any other action RPGs. That’s thanks to its unique battle mechanics that allow for some fun visuals, combos, and strategies.
SAS is a brain-to-brain connection that allows players to temporarily use party members’ different abilities, basically granting different assists. That includes elemental attack augments, invisibility, time slowing, a doppelganger that can double attacks, or having a partner jump in with an assist attack.
This mechanic adds a deep strategic element to battles, as different SAS attacks have unique stats that are more effective on certain enemies. For example, one enemy can shoot water, which will spill all over it after a certain amount of hits. Using an SAS assist with electric properties allows players to score higher damage on their waterlogged foe. In the beginning, players start with one of these assists and work their way up to four at once, opening the door for some high combo potential. It just takes a bit of grinding to get there.
Yes there’s an RPG in there, too While the action and story take center stage, the game has no shortage of the usual RPG elements.
In order to get all of a character’s abilities unlocked, players will need to fight through the story and revisit previous areas to level up and earn Brain Points. As with many other RPGs sporting a mechanic like this, players select points on a map to decide what path they’ll follow to level up next.
On the other side of the playing field, party members can be leveled up to unlock more SAS abilities. That’s accomplished by increasing a bond level with them, similar to the Persona series. Bonds with a character are increased by talking to characters or giving them gifts, in turn unlocking more abilities. Once a certain requirement of interaction is hit, players also unlock a bond episode, a special cutscene that features the player character getting closer to whoever they’ve bonded with. This also increases an overall team bond, granting bonuses like special items and free revives. While it may sound like a chore, it opens a lot of fun dialogue moments between characters while not getting in the way of the core combat loop.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s also the classic material system that RPG fans will be familiar with. Throughout levels, players find little digital cubes that they’ll need to pick up. These can be taken to a shop and traded for different cosmetic pieces for the party, health items, and various weapon and stat upgrades.
It feels lively thanks to the abundance of NPCs and great care put into the look, feel, and sounds of the different maps.
The one downside of the RPG gameplay is the game’s exploration. While I really liked the bright and detailed city and ruinous environments of the game, traversing the city feels tacked on. Items are placed in empty and dull hallways and often feel unnecessary. It gets even more annoying when backtracking to these areas to find more.
Despite this, I enjoyed my time exploring the world of Scarlet Nexus.
 It feels lively thanks to the abundance of NPCs and great care put into the look, feel, and sounds of the different maps. I just wish item hunting didn’t feel like a drag at times.
Our take Scarlet Nexus is a must-play for any fan of Japanese action RPGs and standard JRPGs. If the story doesn’t grab your attention, the combat will. It has enough meat to its action to distract from its very minor blemishes. Its characters are a delight to interact with and seeing them grow together really had me fully invested in all of their arcs. I left the experience craving another title like it that takes its excellent action even further.
How long will it last? It should take over 60 hours in total. The unlockable abilities are worth hunting down, too, adding lots of extra replay time for those who want to dive deeper.
Is there an alternative? There are tons of other action RPGs on the market. The Tales series and the renowned Final Fantasy 7 Remake are some that I would recommend, but Scarlet Nexus offers such a rich and unique experience that I wouldn’t turn it away.
Should you buy it? If you’re hungry for a some good action or a great story, I highly recommend jumping right into this one.
Editors' Recommendations The best skills to unlock in Scarlet Nexus The best weapons in Scarlet Nexus Game Reviews Product Reviews Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Gaming November 19 marks the 25th anniversary of the original Half-Life, and to celebrate, Valve made a special announcement. No, Half-Life 3 was not announced. But Valve celebrated the anniversary with a massive update to the game on PC and a new documentary detailing its development. The best part: It's all available for free.
Half-Life's 25th-anniversary update incorporates the Half-Life: Uplink demo that Valve gave away as a CD via magazine and hardware manufacturer promotions in the 1990s and introduces many multiplayer maps. That includes four brand-new maps -- Contamination, Pool Party, Disposal, and Rocket Frenzy -- and three more maps that were previously only included in the Half-Life: Further Data CD release: Double Cross, Rust Mill, and Xen DM. It's also now possible to play as a Space Biker, Prototype Barney, Skeleton, and Too Much Coffee Man and use dozens of Further Data sprays in Half-Life: Deathmatch.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
