Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Star Wars Jedi: Survivor review: impressive sequel makes Cal’s journey personal By Tomas Franzese Close $70.00 Engaging, darker narrative Improved combat and exploration Expansion of Pyloon's Saloon Beautiful visuals Pacing issues Technical problems The first shot of Respawn Entertainment’s Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is one of Coruscant’s Jedi Temple adorned with Imperial Banners. Zipping past it before a heist on the planet that once served as the Jedi’s base of operations, the heroic Cal Kestis looks visibly upset. The image is a reminder of why the young Jedi can’t move on until his mission is complete; he doesn’t care what else is in his way or what happens to himself, as long as Jedi populate that temple again. And that desire comes at the cost of other parts of his life, and potentially, the future of the Jedi Order.
Dark forces Battlefront Metroidvania done right Shadow of the Empire That overwhelming sense of dread is common in Star Wars sequels, especially the second installments of its trilogies.
The Empire Strikes Back’s opening on Hoth became iconic, and it was one of the first blockbusters where our heroes didn’t really win at the end.
Star Wars: The Last Jedi made The First Order and The Dark Side feel like an inescapable force that Rey and the Resistance would have to overcome.
All Stim upgrade locations in Star Wars Jedi: Survivor All lightsaber stances in Star Wars Jedi: Survivor Star Wars Jedi: Survivor’s arachnophobia toggle removes all spiders Just as those films showed that their respective conflicts were far from over after the triumphant wins in their predecessors, Survivor is dealing with the same aftermath following a much more muted victory at the end of Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order.
 That allows this game to dive deeper into these themes than any other Star Wars product, telling a story about people who feel so overwhelmed by a sense of obligation that there’s no way out.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That results in a poignant Star Wars story sitting at the center of a meaty single-player adventure. While its pacing lags a bit in the middle and some performance issues dampen a truly next-gen-feeling game, Star Wars Jedi: Survivor still tells a thematically rich, character-driven Jedi tale in one of the most densely packed 3D Metroidvania games I’ve ever played. It’s now the definitive single-player Star Wars experience.
Dark forces In many ways, Survivor feels like last year’s God of War: Ragnarok.
 It’s a sequel that, both in terms of gameplay and narrative, can feel more like part two of a grander story. The narrative is set five years after the events of Fallen Order , and in that time, the Mantis crew from the original game has drifted apart. Now sporting a beard and more battle scars, Cal has been fighting endless battles with the Empire for Saw Gerrera. After a heist on Coruscant goes wrong, he ends up on the planet of Koboh, where Mantis pilot Greez now runs a Cantina. After a few chance encounters and some begging from Greez to settle down, Cal discovers Dagan Gera, a Jedi who has been preserved in a Bacta Tank since the High Republic era.
It’s a surprisingly personal journey … Unfortunately, Gera quickly turns on Cal, turning to the dark side in his quest to get to the planet of Tanalorr, which is hidden from the grasp of the Empire behind a dangerous abyss. This is what truly kicks off the adventure, which sees Cal reunite with his mentor, Cere, as well as his Nightsister crush and badass Magick user Merrin, and a new bounty hunter friend named Bode, who feels obligated to fight for a better future for his daughter. It’s a surprisingly personal journey, with Dagan Gera being a worrying reflection of how Cal could end up if he continues down his current path.
Both feel some sort of obligation based on a sense of grief. Does Cal deserve to settle down and be happy with those he loves if the Empire that destroyed the Jedi Order is still around? Should Dagan give up his ambition to find Tanalorr after all he’s sacrificed and everyone he’s betrayed to get here? These are some of the thoughtful questions Survivor asks, confronting the more personal, mental health-related consequences of the lingering dread and grief often present in direct Star Wars sequels.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Without spoiling the narrative’s major twists (of which there are a few), Cal ultimately has to learn healthier ways to deal with grief and that true friends are willing to help. Thinking back to the ending of Fallen Order , the Mantis Crew didn’t necessarily defeat a part of the Empire at the end of the first game, but it helped others by preventing the Empire from finding a lot of force-sensitive people. Cal needs to relearn that positive actions that help others like this are what really make a difference.
Still, it doesn’t forget that Star Wars can be campy and fun. Many of the conversations I overheard before ambushing enemies had me laughing. One particular moment that stands out was when two droids were boasting about how they could easily beat a Jedi, only for one of them to immediately say “lowering expectations” as soon as I attacked. Respawn Entertainment recognizes that these little moments of levity do wonders in between the game’s more dire and dramatic moments where Cal feels the weight of the galaxy on his shoulders.
Battlefront Cal’s personal journey is reflected in gameplay through Survivor ‘s new companion system. During many of the game’s story segments, Bode or Merrin will fight alongside Cal and can be issued simple attack commands that primarily help to stun enemies. For the most part, though, gameplay in this sequel expands to go bigger and better, fixing minor problems with Fallen Order.
 Like its predecessor, Survivor takes a methodical approach to its lightsaber combat, emphasizing well-timed parries, dodges, strikes, and force powers. The number of stances Cal can fight in has increased to five, with two equipped at any time.
This feels like the deepest “Jedi simulator” we’ve ever gotten from a Star Wars game.
I mostly used the brand new Crossguard stance (based on Kylo Ren’s lightsaber and fighting style) and its slow but impactful attacks for one-on-one battles. And the Double-Bladed stance that could attack a wide area quickly came in handy whenever enemies surrounded me. If you used the Wild Gunman stance in Like a Dragon! Ishin earlier this year, you should try out the Blaster stance that gives Cal a lightsaber and blaster simultaneously.
Combat is just as fun as in Fallen Order , and Cal’s moveset only gets better over time thanks to several skill trees that players upgrade throughout the game and equippable perks. A wide variety of difficulty and accessibility options also make the experience helpfully tailorable on both sides of the difficulty spectrum. Even with its darker tone and heavier themes, this feels like the deepest “Jedi simulator” we’ve ever gotten from a Star Wars game.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Survivor’s narrative themes come through in another major gameplay centerpiece: Pyloon’s Saloon. Initially a tiny rough-and-tumble dive on the planet of Koboh, Cal can invite people back to the aaloon and the surrounding area, opening up new conversations, vendors, and even minigames like gardening and a Holotactics strategy game. Watching Pyloon’s Saloon get more lively throughout the adventure gives a clear sense of progression, but it plays into the fact that Cal is doing more for the galaxy in the long term when he’s making connections and helping others thrive, not just dedicating every waking moment to attacks on the Empire.
Admittedly, the depth of this side content isn’t wholly consistent. Gardening is a little restrictive and doesn’t have many rewards outside of new dialogue and more space to garden, while Holotactics feels up to chance once units are placed (it even soft-locked on me a couple of times).
Survivor strives for depth, detail, and quantity of content, and for the most part, it meets that goal without sacrificing quality, but it also results in some optional features feeling underbaked.
Metroidvania done right Where that added sense of depth and detail is more appreciated is the Metroidvania side of the adventure, which has evolved the most since Fallen Order.
 This is the most densely packed AAA 3D Metroidvania since Batman: Arkham Asylum.
 There aren’t a lot of planets to explore — I spent most of my playtime on Koboh and Jedha — but each is an impressive hub densely packed with details and places to discover. Even after finishing the main story, most of these hubs were only about 60% complete in my file, encouraging me to come back frequently as my skill set expanded. Cal obtains some new movement options during his adventure, like the ability to dash in the air and yank objects up and down. In more open-ended maps, players can even find mounts to ride and glide around with.
Image used with permission by copyright holder These things all open up new pathways in the world that are exhilarating to overcome. Still, Survivor’s level design still feels naturalistic, with Cal climbing up worn-down rocky cliffsides or navigating through Imperial equipment that reinforces the Empire’s everlasting negative impact on the galaxy.
For those most interested in Survivor’s narrative , this setup can come at the cost of pacing. The high stakes and sense of dread are dampened somewhat as Cal spends a little bit of extra time hopping around solving Breath of the Wild shrine-like challenges scattered across Koboh and Jedha or needing to make an extra long detour because a shortcut isn’t open yet.
Fallen Order has a similar pacing issue, where the middle portion of the game relies on the most galaxy-trodding Metroidvania-like diversions that make getting from point A to point B just a little too long.
The delivery of its compelling, emotional narrative could’ve been tighter than it is across 20 hours here.
Survivor remains a lot of fun to play in these moments, though, and you’ll definitely get your money’s worth out of this adventure before and after you finish its main story. However, the delivery of its compelling, emotional narrative could have been tighter than it is across 20 hours here. While its winding passages can get a bit tiring in some of the laxer narrative moments, Survivor’s locales all feel incredibly well-realized and respectful to the Star Wars universe.
Shadow of the Empire It helps that the game looks excellent.
Survivor is only available on current-gen systems, and the reasoning for that becomes apparent when walking through the extremely detailed streets of Coruscant or taking in the immaculate detail in an Imperial or High Republic facility. Unfortunately, the frame rate does struggle with that power. I played Survivor in performance mode and noticed quite a bit of stuttering in some effects-heavy situations; the frame rate change when entering cutscenes was also notable and sometimes jarring.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s worth noting that the game crashed twice on me during my adventure, which is notable considering that issues like that were Fallen Order ‘s Achilles’ heel. These are issues that the developers could mend with patches at and after launch, but just as Cal can never escape the shadow of the Empire, Survivor shows that even “next-gen”-looking games still can’t outrun some technical issues. Thankfully, I barely ran into any of the game-breaking bugs that plagued Fallen Order at release.
Even after I beat the game, that image of the Jedi temple adorned with Imperial banners still graces the title screen. This is still several years before Luke Skywalker and his friends would actually rid the galaxy of the Empire, but that doesn’t make Cal’s actions any less meaningful. Cal’s journey follows the thematic trends established by The Empire Strikes Back and The Last Jedi , but is willing to get even more personal with them in a way only a game can. This, coupled with its deeper combat and more densely packed worlds, truly put me in the mindset of a Jedi during this dire era.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor doesn’t reinvent the formula of Fallen Order and still suffers from some pacing and technical issues as that game did. Still, it’s one of the best single-player Star Wars experiences that I’ve ever played. The Empire may not be defeated by the end of Survivor , but I enjoyed exploring this beautiful galaxy and watching Cal open up along the way.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor was reviewed on PlayStation 5.
Editors' Recommendations The best Star Wars games of all time All perks in Star Wars Jedi: Survivor Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is being review-bombed on Steam as a ‘total crap’ PC port Star Wars Jedi: Survivor: file size, release time, and preload options Star Wars Jedi: Survivor: release date, trailers, preorders, and more Action Games Game Reviews Product Reviews Sci-Fi Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Star Wars Star Wars Jedi: Survivor Gaming EA and Respawn Entertainment need a bit more time to create Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, so the game has been delayed until April 28.
Originally set to release on March 17 at The Game Awards 2022, this delay pushes the highly anticipated Star Wars game back by more than a month. In a tweet explaining the delay, Star Wars Jedi: Survivor director Stig Asmussen explains that the game is "content complete," but needs more time to "enhance performance, stability, polish, and most importantly, the player experience." Ultimately, he believes this six-week delay will allow the development team "to hit the Respawn quality bar, provide the team the time they need, and achieve the level of polish our fans deserve." You can read the full message in the tweet below: https://twitter.com/eastarwars/status/1620527593580806145 Thankfully, a six-week delay isn't that lengthy in the video game industry, so Star Wars fans will only have to wait a little while longer to experience Cal Kestis' next adventure. Today hasn't been the best for Respawn Entertainment fans, though, as the developer also announced it would shut down the mobile version of Apex Legends.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is the sequel to 2019's Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, a single-player action-adventure game that followed the journey of former Padawan Cal Kestis between the events of Revenge of the Sith and A New Hope. This sequel takes place five years after that game, with Cal Kestis actor Cameron Monaghan telling Digital Trends that the narrative has an "emotionally complicated center where we’re exploring some challenging questions." Hopefully, that all makes this game worth the wait.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor now releases for PC, PS5, and Xbox Series X/S on April 28.
Gaming Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is launching on March 17, 2023, for Xbox Series X, PlayStation 5, and PC. The action-adventure game received an impressive trailer during The Game Awards that showed off several new features and teased some potential open-world aspects.
Survivor takes place five years after 2019’s Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, continuing the adventures of Cal Kestis and his droid pal BD-1. Cal is no longer a young Padawan and is now a full-blown Jedi. The much larger scope of the game seems to reflect that change.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor - Official Reveal Trailer Combat is notably evolved in the trailer, as Cal can now freely use a dual-lightsaber stance in battle. Later, we see him enter “cross guard” stance as he takes down droids with heavy, two-handed slashes. EA tells Digital Trends that the goal of the sequel is to give players more agency when it comes to their playstyle.
Traversal plays a large role in the clip too. In addition to swinging around via grappling points, Cal is seen mounted on animals. He’s shown riding the back of a four-legged creature and using a winged one like The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild’s glider. The clip seems to imply that the game’s planets might be more open-ended than Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order’s, as one shot shows Cal peering out over a gigantic vista. EA notes that the sequel is still largely a Metroidvania-inspired title where Cal gets new abilities over time.
Cal has a new human companion this time named Bode Akuna. In one clip, we see Bode flipping over Cal’s back to attack an enemy with a combo move.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor was built with current-generation consoles in mind, with ray tracing being a major focus. It appears to be a graphically impressive showcase that features more dynamic lighting and flashy lightsaber effects. The adventure won’t launch on PS4 or Xbox One, but it’ll be available for PS5, Xbox Series X, and PC on March 17, 2023.
Gaming The release date of the highly anticipated Star Wars game Star Wars Jedi: Survivor leaked on the game's official Steam page.
A Steam Page for Star Wars Jedi: Survivor went live with this release date information on Monday morning, seemingly ahead of a heavily rumored appearance at The Game Awards. The store page description reveals more details about Star Wars Jedi: Survivor as well as its Deluxe Edition, which contains cosmetics that make protagonist Cal Kestis look like Luke Skywalker and Han Solo and the pre-order bonus with a costume, Lightsaber, and Blaster based on Obi-Wan.
The "About This Game" section also provides more details on the game. Narratively, Star Wars Jedi: Survivor's Steam page explains that "Cal is driven to make a stand during the galaxy’s darkest times -- but how far is he willing to go to protect himself, his crew, and the legacy of the Jedi Order?" On the gameplay side of things, new Force abilities, Lightsaber fighting styles, and enemies to take down are teased. Star Wars Jedi: Survivor looks like it will be a galaxy-trotting adventure like its predecessor the description hints that there will be lots of planets to explore and that they'll be bigger and have more secrets than the ones in Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order.
EA and Respawn Entertainment have been relatively quiet regarding Star Wars Jedi: Survivor since announcing the game in May, so it's exciting to get a lot of new information about the game like its sooner-than-expected release date. If the rumors are true, this may have deflated the hype from one of The Game Awards 2022's big reveals.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor will be released for PC, PS5, and Xbox Series X/S on March 15, 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
