Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Tales of Arise review: Another step toward the future of JRPGs By DeAngelo Epps Close $60.00 Excellent combat Fun characters Strong themes Beautiful visuals Fun twists on the genre By-the-books story So far, 2021 has been a great year for the Japanese role-playing game genre , and Tales of Arise only adds to a strong lineup. When I played a demo of it earlier this year, I was left wanting to explore more of the combat, characters, and story. The finished product delivers on the game’s promise and then some.
Weighty themes A step beyond Final Fantasy The visuals bring it all together Our take Tales of Arise is the newest entry in Bandai Namco’s long-running JRPG franchise known as the “Tales of” series. However, Arise is a unique turning point, adopting a completely new combat style and seemingly benefiting from a bigger budget (if visuals are anything to go by). That fresh feeling was palpable throughout my playthrough, reminding me of classic blockbuster JRPGs from days of yore. While the story is nothing too groundbreaking, the characters, gameplay, visuals, and themes of race and freedom carried me on a high throughout my entire adventure with the game’s standout cast of characters.
Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is getting a surprise Switch release The best Tales games, ranked from best to worst Tales of Arise: Best early abilities to unlock This is one of those JRPGs that entertains from start to finish, and a title that no fan of the genre will want to skip out on.
Weighty themes Tales of Arise puts players in control of the mysterious Iron Mask, later revealed to be named Alphen, a member of the Dahnan race who has an unusual mask stuck on his head and a lack of pain receptors. He and the rest of his race are enslaved to the technologically advanced Renans, or “Bright Eyes,” as the Dahnan people lovingly call them. These Renans are ruled over by five Lords of five regions, with each participating in a long-term game to find out who will become the most powerful lord of lords. Alphen, a group of Dahnan rebels, and Shionne, their cryptic Renan new ally, partner up to take down these rulers.
Shionne and Alphen become a powerful duo and set off on an adventure spanning all five regions of this world to take down the Lords one by one. In standard JRPG fashion, the two meet more party members, growing their numbers as they scour the regions.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The party has always been one of the main draws of Tales of games, as the series boasts “skits.” These are small comic-book style cutscenes where the characters interact with one another in conversations that unveil their quirks. The party members of Tales of Arise are so entertaining that I made sure to watch every one of these chats that I could.
The story of these races and the environments they share adds to the spectacular worldbuilding present in Tales of Arise.
As with other JRPGs, the game dips into political themes. Alphen questions what true freedom really is and ponders what his future will look like if he completes his mission of freeing his enslaved brothers and sisters. These themes, as well as the race relations between the Dahnan party members and the single Renan in the group, really stood out to me for how well written they are. As a Black player, the themes really resonate with me. I loved seeing Alphen’s range of emotions come out in the face of his oppressors. For example, he approaches a partner who shares the same blood with his oppressors with a bit of unease, but is willing to show them forgiveness, too. He’s a protagonist I can get behind.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The story of these races and the world they share adds to the spectacular worldbuilding present in Tales of Arise.
 I enjoyed how much the history of this world is a driving force in the adventure’s narrative progression. Despite these great pieces, I still found the game to be a bit on the generic side in terms of story. It follows the usual beats that many JRPGs do and is carried by great characters and gameplay instead. The story is still enjoyable, it just doesn’t offer anything too groundbreaking outside of its strong thematic undertones.
A step beyond Final Fantasy The Tales of series has always been known for its combat. Players are constantly looking for new combos and techniques to pull of in game and I’m here to say that Tales of Arise will not disappoint whether you’re a casual player or a try-hard like me.
The new Linear Motion Battle System is more or less what we got in the Final Fantasy 7 Remake with added bells and whistles. Combos are even more important in this system, giving players a few more gimmicks to play around with. For example, there are Cure Points, or CP, which limit how many healing spells players can use before they rest at an inn or a campsite, or before they use an item to replenish them.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The battles are close to the hack-and-slash style of FF7R , and feature launchers, juggles, and more classic Tales of staples that fans will be happy to see return. Artes, or spells and special attacks, also appear once again in Tales of Arise with an added rule. The more they are used in a combo, the less effective they will be. That, along with their need to be regenerated after spending AG (Artes Gauge) points to use them, adds extra strategy to combat, which is a welcome challenge.
There are quite a few super attacks that are unlocked as the game progresses. including team attacks that can be used to unleash tons of damage on an enemy and everyone around them once players hit a certain combo threshold. Boost attacks that players can use once a character’s boost gauge fills up can directly counter enemy shields and spells. They can also extend combos with added damage, and replenish the Artes Gauge. And there are solo revenge super attacks that can be unleashed once a character takes a certain amount of damage without being knocked out.
Image used with permission by copyright holder This combat is so engaging that it makes the usual RPG grind a nonissue. During my grind sessions, I found myself experimenting with how deep the combo system can get. While in combat, players can pull off character switch combos and wild laser gun juggles, use the menu to switch their move list, or instantly perform an attack mid-combo. I’m in love with the range of options available. And yes, as with the older Tales of games, players can make allies do nothing, giving them full control of the party’s actions.
The visuals bring it all together Image used with permission by copyright holder If the weighty story and complex combat don’t attract casual players, Tales of Arise’ s visuals will. The game is absolutely gorgeous, to the point where it’s one of the first games in a long time to make me think that playing on a next-gen console (should you be able to afford or find one) is completely worth it. I played on a PlayStation, so I can say definitively that you’ll still get the most out of it on either generation.
During my travels through this fantasy world, I found myself lost in the environments or even just looking at the character models for a bit after changing their outfits. Once you get to the water-filled caves and grasslands especially, you’ll see exactly what I mean. It’s a game that looks like a beautiful painting at times.
All these visuals are complemented by an amazing orchestrated soundtrack that builds on every moment, whether the party is storming a castle to take on the next lord or taking a breather by the campfire.
Our take Tales of Arise is a games I would recommend for anyone looking for “the future” of the JRPG genre. This game could easily be Bandai Namco’s Final Fantasy 7.
 It feels tailor-made for the era and pushes the barriers for RPGs thanks to complex combat, weighty storytelling, and gorgeous visuals.
How long will it last? Tales of Arise takes around 60 hours to complete depending on how much of a completionist and battle addict you are. I’m both, so there is a good meaty game for you to enjoy here.
Is there an alternative? Scarlet Nexus and Final Fantasy 7 Remake are strong action RPGs for anyone who’s looking for some alternatives. Both games offer similarly solid combat, but stronger stories.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you’re looking for another JRPG to join your collection or are curious about the series and need an entry point, then it’s highly recommended to hop on in.
Editors' Recommendations Final Fantasy VII Rebirth finally launches next February New Final Fantasy 16 trailer shows an expansive journey and classic story Tales of Arise: All Artifact locations and effects Tales of Arise beginner’s guide The best skills to unlock in Scarlet Nexus Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Japanese role-playing games have their own unique blend of story, gameplay, and, in a lot of cases, style. There's something in the combination of turn-based battles, usually with unique mechanics, character progression, and item management, that makes JRPGs so engaging, often for hours on end. In this guide, we've rounded up the 10 best JRPGs that you should play.
For this list, we're defining JRPGs as a genre. All of our games are from Japanese studios, but we didn't include, for example, Dark Souls. It's an RPG, and it comes from a Japanese studio, but it doesn't fit in the genre conventions of a JRPG as it is more of an action game with RPG elements.
Gaming The planned E3 2019 announcements by publisher Bandai Namco have been leaked before the annual entertainment event, revealing three unannounced games.
The three spoiled titles are the rumored collaboration between From Software and Game of Thrones creator George R.R. Martin, a new entry in the long-running Tales series, and a remastered version of Ni No Kuni.
Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
