Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews The Callisto Protocol review: Gruesome horror game scratches that Dead Space itch By Giovanni Colantonio Close $69.99 Excellent atmosphere Memorable setting Visceral combat Fantastic visuals Derivative story Awkward dodging system Inconsistent performance It’s a testament to how much games have changed in the last 15 years that I’d describe The Callisto Protocol as a throwback. Though the third-person horror game is a technical powerhouse that pushes my Xbox Series X to its limits, it brings me back to a much simpler time before the days of massive open worlds and complex narratives. I’m transported to the Xbox 360 days when I play it — an era where the best games were eight-hour single-player adventures and where the bar for video game stories was only starting to rise out of rock bottom. Ah, memories.
Checking the right boxes Dodgy combat Pushing the limits That nostalgia is unavoidable given that The Callisto Protocol immediately looks and feels like a spiritual successor to 2008’s Dead Space (no coincidence considering that both are the brain-child of Dead Space co-creator Glen Schofield). What’s important, though, is that developer Striking Distance Studios isn’t so precious about the past that it forgets to innovate on top of an established framework. After all, what made the most beloved late 2000s games so special was their willingness to try something new, even if they didn’t always stick the landing on the first try.
The Callisto Protocol weapon upgrades: 4 weapons you should prioritize The Callisto Protocol won’t launch in Japan due to its rating Everything we know about The Callisto Protocol The Callisto Protocol does more than enough to scratch the Dead Space itch that’s been lingering for a decade. It’s familiar without feeling like a rehash, putting its own creative stamp on the horror genre. It’s not without its fleshy weak spots though, as overworked combat and performance instability leave room for the new IP to mutate into something more powerful down the line.
Checking the right boxes On a surface level, The Callisto Protocol has just about everything a fan could want from a Dead Space revival (minus the plasma cutter). It’s a succinct sci-fi horror game cut from the same cloth as late 2000s linear action-adventure hits full of claustrophobic corridors, grotesque space monsters, and gnarly death animations. When it comes to crafting the kind of uncomfortable atmosphere you can’t look away from, no box is left unchecked here.
I’m easily placed in Jacob’s shoes as I helplessly try to search for a way out of an oppressive space designed to keep people in.
The story centers around Jacob Lee, a space freighter pilot tasked with transporting mysterious cargo between planets. After a sudden crash landing on the planet Callisto, home to the dreaded Black Iron Prison, Jacob is arrested without explanation and tossed into a cell. You can probably guess exactly where this is going because The Callisto Protocol doesn’t have many narrative ambitions beyond its commitment to genre tropes. Mutated monsters take over the prison and Jacob must fight his way out. Why are people being mysteriously abducted? Where did those creatures come from? Read Resident Evil For Dummies and you’ll piece it all together by page two.
The derivative story is surprising considering that Striking Distance Studios went out of its way to book actors like Josh Duhamel and Karen Fukuhara, even going so far as to perfectly recreate their likenesses. Those talents wind up feeling wasted, but the story is more functional than it is engrossing. It’s just a good excuse to create an effective haunted house in the lineage of great game locations like the Spencer Mansion of the USG Ishimura.
Ambiance is more important than story in a horror game like this and it’s clear that there’s an expert at the helm of the project who understands that. Black Iron Prison’s sterile halls are bathed in eerie darkness, hiding the infected inmates that lurk within. I always had a gun drawn when cautiously walking around, just so I could use my flashlight to carve a path through the shadows. With no map to cross-check, I’m easily placed in Jacob’s shoes as I helplessly try to search for a way out of an oppressive space designed to keep people in.
Image used with permission by copyright holder A disorienting soundscape ratchets up that tension even more. In one combat encounter, I accidentally stumble into a room full of monsters. I run back and hide in a corner as they begin to hunt for me. Suddenly, I hear the clattering of feet inside a metal vent. I frantically begin aiming my flashlight to find the source of the sound — only for a monster to pop out of a vent directly next to me, forcing me to swing my melee baton wildly like a scared grandma with a frying pan.
Those moments make for The Callisto Protocol ’s best horror sequences , though it delivers some good old-fashioned jump scares too. Some of those are simple, but effective tricks like dropping a parasitic worm in a chest instead of goodies, which springs out like a Jack-in-the-box when opened. Striking Distance Studios overuses a handful of scares like that by the end of the game (you can only spook me so many times while crawling through a vent), but those surprises make sure that no part of Black Iron Prison feels like a safe room. It’s escape or, most assuredly, die.
Dodgy combat Both my favorite quality of The Callisto Protocol and my biggest gripe with it revolve around its unique take on combat. Going in, I assumed it would just copy Dead Space’s notes by giving Jacob some knockoff plasma cutter that could strategically slice off limbs. Instead, Striking Distance Studios creates an original system that feels much more desperate, emphasizing that Jacob is a caged animal lashing out on instinct to survive. Combat revolves around a mix of melee attacks and gunplay, but the former is the main focus. Early in the game, Jacob picks a heavy baton off a dead guard that he can use to fend off monsters. When he swings it, I can feel him putting his entire body into it as if his life depends on it. Each smack lands with a satisfying thud; I can feel the weight of the metal connecting with the skeletal structure keeping these decaying flesh monsters upright.
Guns are more useful as a follow-up attack that can be chained in with striking combos, allowing Jacob to instant-aim amid an attack string and let out a powerful blast. There’s a strong rhythm to a successful encounter, with Jacob slapping a monster around and peppering in a shot when the time is right like a drummer waiting for the right second to smash a crash cymbal. While players can choose to run and gun, ammo conservation is critical. Sometimes during battles, a monster will start sprouting tentacles on its chest, signaling that it’s about to mutate into a much tougher foe. A well-aimed gunshot will nip that problem in the bud, making guns feel more like a valuable counter tool.
While those core ideas make for a strong backbone, problems arise when paired with The Callisto Protocol ’s more original dodging system.
As a pièce de résistance, Jacob also has a gravity pull that yanks enemies forward. That allows players to bring in some violent slapstick comedy, as Jacob can toss enemies into spinning blades or throw them into an abyss. When all three of these tools are working together, battles feel symphonic. In my most memorable encounter, I pulled an enemy towards a spike wall and thwacked him with my baton so hard that it knocked him into it. Then I turned around and hit another monster with a shotgun blast so powerful that it sent it flying into a fan. Morbid, disgusting, beautiful.
While those core ideas make for a strong backbone, problems arise when paired with The Callisto Protocol ’s more original dodging system. When Jacob gets close to an attacking enemy, the stick that controls his movement suddenly becomes a dodge stick. Pressing it left or right will let him evade an oncoming strike while pressing back blocks it. It’s an interesting concept, which almost feels like a way to seamlessly integrate what would usually be quick-time actions into combat. It’s a bit of a mess in practice, though.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I’d often find myself trying to back away from an enemy, only to have my expected movement turned into a dodge instead. That was fine for one-on-one encounters, but it created chaos anytime there were more enemies on screen. I’d find myself suddenly surrounded by enemies that would just get free hits on me from behind while I struggled to disengage from whatever was directly in front of me. That’s especially frustrating when trapped in a tight corridor (a common setting), causing the camera to wildly swing into any position it can fit into amid the mosh pit.
Combat is further complicated by a cumbersome weapon-swapping system. Jacob can collect a small arsenal of guns by the end of the game, but only two are equipped at once. Pressing the left D-pad will switch weapons, but only after a long, delayed animation. Miniscule UI makes it difficult to tell which weapon is equipped at a glance (especially when half of the weapons are handguns with a similar look), which often left me unclear on whether or not I’d successfully switched weapons in a tense encounter. Similarly, the right D-pad opens a weapon select menu that’s so tiny you need a microscope to make out which guns are which. It seems like Striking Distance was going for total immersion by reducing as much UI as possible, but it tosses out practical considerations with that bathwater.
All of those issues come to a head in the game’s absolutely miserable final boss fight, which had me dying dozens of times as I struggled to juggle weapons, manage smaller monsters in the arena, and dodge attacks that could kill me in one shot if I wasn’t facing the boss. It’s a common horror game problem that has plagued the Resident Evil series for decades. The combat system is perfect for intimate, one-on-one survival horror struggles; it does not map onto the full-on action game The Callisto Protocol becomes at a moment’s notice.
Pushing the limits By the end of the game, I’m left feeling like Striking Distance Studios may have bitten off just a bit more than it could chew for its debut. Case in point: its technical performance.
The Callisto Protocol is one of the most astonishing games I’ve seen from this newer generation of consoles, getting the most out of devices like the Xbox Series X.
 Faces are photorealistic, death animations are gruesomely detailed, and there are particle effects galore. I especially appreciate that it doesn’t trade in style for realism, still finding sensible places to bring in color splashes that keep the game from falling into a grim-dark muck trap.
It seems like more patches will be needed to get it fully optimized.
That incredible artistry does come at a cost, though its hard to fully speak to how it’ll run at launch. During my playthrough less than week ago, The Callisto Protocol struggled to run at a consistent frame rate on Xbox Series X.
 When I say that, I don’t mean that it dipped a few frames here and there. I encountered an entire hour-plus stretch where the framerate tanked below 30 frames per second and remained there until I got to a less visually busy chapter. Striking Distance implemented multiple emergency patches throughout the week, which addressed that issue and an especially egregious hard-lock bug. It’s hard to say for sure if the game will be fully optimized when it launches, as the version you download today will likely run much differently. All I can offer for now is a fair warning, as the issues I encountered mere days ago are not generally the norm for review builds.
Note that I have not seen how the game runs on PS4 and Xbox One yet, but the last minute dash to fix problems on current tech raises some red flags. If you’re planning to buy on one of those platforms, I’d recommend waiting to see how performance holds up there, as the issues I mentioned here were all seen on Xbox Series S and X.
Image used with permission by copyright holder While issues like that are disappointing, I find myself willing to forgive The Callisto Protocol when looking at the work as a whole. This is an ambitious project for a new studio of this scale and, for the most part, the developer rises to meet the challenge with a horror game that feels both classic and original. It’s clear that a lot of care — and unfortunately a lot of crunch , which is worth reading up on before making a buying decision — went into creating a game that wouldn’t just imitate Dead Space, but bring its legacy forwards. Though parts of it feel overworked as a result of that goal, there’s a strong foundation here which I expect to be overflowing with gore next time around.
We all know Dead Space 2 was the best one anyway, right? The Callisto Protocol was tested on Xbox Series S and Xbox Series X , with the latter hooked up to a TCL 6-Series R635.
Editors' Recommendations Where to find the Skunk Gun in the Callisto Protocol Trust me: Play The Callisto Protocol on its easiest difficulty setting Dead Space remake gameplay trailer showcases an enhanced horror experience New Dead Space game is a next-gen exclusive remake of the horror classic Cult horror classic Dead Space is reportedly being revived by EA Apple Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Unions 1 through 30 just weren't enough.
Last year, Sledgehammer and Visceral Games veteran Michael Condrey founded a new studio at 2K Games. That studio now has a name, 31st Union, and it will develop an original game rather than assist with current franchises.
Gaming We've had a dancing game and musou spinoff, but now the Persona 5 cast has entered the realm of tactics with Persona 5 Tactica. The translation feels obvious when you think about it, but naturally, there have to be some changes to make it fit. For fans of the original JRPG, experimenting with the new combat system will take a little getting used to, especially relearning what skills are best. This game is quite friendly to those who are not as well-versed in the genre and allows you to try out your build and completely rework it if you need to. If you've invested your GP in some skills you're unhappy with, here's how you can respec in Persona 5 Tactica.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica Each character has their own skill tree that you can invest your GP into for buffs and skills. The way you invest early on can make the first few hours either much more difficult or a smoother experience. If you're feeling some buyer's remorse, respecing any character is not only easy, but can be done as many times as you like at no cost.
Gaming Nintendo’s Super Mario series is so monumental to the medium of video games that you might even think of the mustachioed plumber when you hear “video games” mentioned at all. From his earliest days when he battled Donkey Kong as “Jumpman.” to his latest adventures on the Nintendo Switch, to his latest movie appearance in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Mario has consistently been one of the greatest characters in video games. He’s such an iconic character that countless video games have had him as the star, and here we have ranked them.
For our list, we had two main criteria. First, the games have to be platformers -- either 2D or 3D. This eliminates Mario sports games, the Mario Kart series, role-playing games, and all the Mario Parties. Secondly, the games have to have Mario himself as the lead character. This eliminated Super Mario Land 3 and Super Mario World 2: Yoshi’s Island. In the end, we were left with 22 games. None of them are bad, but we did have to name a loser. We also chose to omit The Lost Levels and instead considered Super Mario Bros. 2 as the definitive second game in the series.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
