Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands review: We’re not on Pandora anymore By Emily Morrow Close $59.99 Fun, varied environments Lots of RPG customization Tons of loot Great spellcasting and melee combat Unimpressive bosses Polarizing character personalities Weak emotional beats About a month ago, I had the privilege of previewing Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands , the latest Borderlands spinoff from Gearbox Software and 2K. What I experienced was an entirely new take on Borderlands, something that combined the looter-shooter gameplay we all know and love with RPG-like stats, classes, gear, and more. While the gameplay was fun, the characters and story in the side area I explored were not, and I was worried that this would be representative of the game as a whole.
Role-playing shooter-looter A motley crew Loot and loot and loot, oh my! Our take I’m happy to say that after experiencing much, much more of the game, I can say with certainty that Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands is good. In fact, it’s really good. It doesn’t have the emotional resonance of Tiny Tina’s Assault on Dragon Keep , the Borderlands 2 DLC that holds an almost mythical status and that Wonderlands pulls its inspiration from, but that’s OK. It’s dumb, silly fun, and that has its own intrinsic value.
What are Moon Orbs in Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands? Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands classes guide: Stats, feats, skills, and more Is Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands cross-platform? I’ve stopped expecting the flash-in-the-pan brilliance of Assault on Dragon Keep, and Wonderlands is better for it.
Role-playing shooter-looter The most immediate difference between Wonderlands and other Borderlands titles is the amount of character customization players are given. Right at the start of the game, players can choose from a variety of physical looks for their character, which go as miniscule as choosing the color of their blush and the pattern on their tunic.
Wonderlands really does feel like an RPG, and it’s brought some of the best traits of the genre along for the ride.
Players are prompted to choose one of six classes and one of several traits for their character before allocating a set number of points into a Dungeons and Dragons-like stat system. I chose the Spore Warden class, which gave me a variety of gun damage and ranged skills to choose from and a mushroom companion to follow me into battle, and I named my character Muffin Top. This is very indicative of the humor to come.
I found that my class, stats, and skills had a real impact on the flow of combat in the game. Once I unlocked the mushroom companion, he was a huge help in fights — the companion A.I. is excellent, and it’s a real help if you’re playing solo rather than with a group of friends (I also can’t get over how absolutely adorable he is).
The stat increases and skill points granted at each level are also extremely helpful. Oftentimes, I would run into a new zone and get walloped, only to realize that I’d forgotten to allocate the points I’d gained from my last few level increases.
Wonderlands really does feel like an RPG, and it’s brought some of the best traits of the genre along for the ride.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That’s not to say that the usual FPS combat is ignored. Shooting feels almost exactly the same as Borderlands 3: S lower than many other shooters, but smoother and easier to get a handle on for newer players. The new melee weapons are useful for when you get overwhelmed with nearby enemies, since most melee attacks knock enemies back and stagger them. I didn’t find that melee weapons made much of a difference in combat, but I was also playing a ranged and gun-focused class, so your experience with a more melee-oriented build like the Brr-zerker might be different.
One thing that feels consistently great is spells, which replace grenades in Wonderlands.
They have a variety of effects, including the usual elemental hazards, health steal, and more. Some can be cast instantly, while others require players to hold down the appropriate button for a short time while the spell charges. My spells always landed where I expected them to, and they’re a great way to mix up the usual gunplay. I very much enjoyed blasting enemies back with bursts of fire or pointed icicle pieces.
A motley crew While the gameplay is consistently enjoyable and interesting, the story is a little more uneven. Though Wonderlands brings back a handful of characters, most of the focus is on the new cast, who are playing the tabletop game Bunkers and Badassess with Tina in the “real world” while the player adventures in the game world. I enjoy the voiceovers a little more in the full game than I did in the preview, but they swap between funny and grating a little too frequently. If you’re not into the trademark Borderlands toilet humor and meme jokes, you might find them more annoying than anything. I was a little more interested in the Dragon Lord, the new antagonist, but he doesn’t play too much of a role until closer to the end of the campaign.
While the gameplay is consistently enjoyable and interesting, the story is a little more uneven.
As usual, the funniest parts of the game are in the tooltips, enemy quips, and player character lines. I laughed more while making my character and reading the funny class descriptions than I did during the entirety of my original preview — thankfully it seems like the side zone featured in the preview is an exception rather than the rule. You can customize the type of lines your player character says during fights and while exploring, and they’re pretty funny.
As usual, it’s also great hearing enemies’ lines, particularly their death lines. Some of the best one-liners are reserved for generic enemies as they’re on their deathbeds.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The one place where the game really stumbles is when it tries to tug on heartstrings. There are a few moments during the campaign and in sidequests that are supposed to be heavy and thoughtful rather than fast and quippy. Though they’re fairly spread out, these moments are frequently unexpected and unsatisfying. During one sidequest about a man whose son had been turned into a wooden puppet, I kept waiting for the punch line to fall, but it never did. It was just supposed to be sad , which is something you don’t really see from Borderlands titles.
The main quest also has a few moments like this, but they don’t make you think nearly as much as Assault on Dragon Keep did. I’m not saying a Borderlands game can’t deal with serious themes; I’m just saying this one doesn’t really know what to do when those feelings arise in the script.
Loot and loot and loot, oh my! Thankfully, Wonderlands knows exactly what to do with loot. There is a mind-bogglingly massive amount of loot in this game, enhanced not only by the new melee weapons and spells, but also by the greatly increased number of equipables found during the adventure. Players can find and equip guns, spells, melee weapons, wards (which work the same as shields in previous Borderlands games), rings, class mods, amulets, and more.
It’s a dizzyingly huge amount of things to pick up, and it turns every defeated enemy into a veritable fountain of loot. While most of it is worthless, half the fun of Borderlands is sifting through the junk to find something that’s really valuable. The item score, one of the series’ best quality of life features, makes a return in Wonderlands , and it’s a great way to quickly compare loot without having to manually compare every single stat value.
Thankfully, Wonderlands knows exactly what to do with loot.
Quests aren’t the only place you can find loot. Instead of fast-traveling to different levels and locations from a hub world, Wonderlands gives the player access to a large world map that’s absolutely chock-full of random encounter zones, sidequests, loot opportunities, dice rolls, tough battles, and more. The game actively encourages players to seek out these extra experiences, dangling loot and stat bonuses in front of them like a golden carrot.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Traveling to other locations manually is cute and makes the world feel more expansive than previous games, but movement on the map is fairly slow and clunky. The actual environments themselves are varied, and they really make you feel like you’re in a fantasy world. Enemies are pretty standard, and bosses feel like little more than bullet sponges, but that’s less important when there’s plenty of cool stuff to look at as you shoot and loot. One of Assault on Dragon Keep ‘s funniest features — Tina’s on-the-fly manipulation of the game world — is on full display here.
Unfortunately, Wonderlands ‘ decision to incorporate RPG mechanics means that one of the genre’s worst traits is on display alongside its better ones. This game is grindy — more grindy than any Borderlands game before it. While you don’t necessarily need to grind for good loot unless you’re looking for something in particular, you do need to grind for XP. The game’s sidequests and other activities are ostensibly “optional”, but if you want to even have a snowball’s chance in hell of being leveled enough to take on the next main story area, you really have to do them. These side zones are fun, but they’re more of the same combat as the campaign, so if you’re looking for something completely different, you’ll be disappointed.
Our take Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands is a much-welcomed breath of fresh air for the Borderlands series. It takes on a new identity of its own and isn’t afraid to shed past associations to push the series in a new direction — a path I hope it stays on, particularly for a franchise that some believe rehashes the same old themes too many times. “Endearing” is the best way to describe Wonderlands : it constantly laughs at itself and wants you to smile and laugh along with it, and most of the time, I did. Borderlands fans and tabletop game enthusiasts in particular will find a lot to love here. Even if you’re not a longtime fan, there really is something for everyone to enjoy in Tina’s latest adventure.
Is there a better alternative? If you’re looking for the best that the series has to offer, Tiny Tina’s Assault on Dragon Keep is still the absolute cream of the crop. It’s available as a stand-alone game on the Epic Games Store.
Borderlands 2 is also a standout title in the series, though it lacks some of the quality of life features of Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands.
How long will it take? The main story isn’t too long, but there are tens of hours of extra content, sidequests, and puzzles to add more to the experience. The endgame Chaos Chamber feature also adds extra replay value.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you enjoy looter-shooters, Borderlands titles, or RPG hybrids, Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands is absolutely worth the money. It’s a great jumping-off point for series newcomers and those who’ve avoided the franchise previously.
Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands was tested on PC.
Editors' Recommendations New Tales from the Borderlands unveiled, launching in October Where to find shrine pieces in Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands beginner’s guide: 10 tips and tricks to get started Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands gets a sparkly Fortnite crossover Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands will have RPG-like multiclassing Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Gearbox and 2K have announced that Tiny Tina's Assault on Dragon Keep, a DLC expansion for Borderlands 2, is now available to purchase as a stand-alone "one-shot" adventure ahead of the upcoming Tiny Tina's Wonderlands.
Assault on Dragon Keep: A Wonderlands One-Shot Adventure is $10, the same price as the original DLC, and includes all of the original's gameplay alongside new loot and cosmetics. Players will not need to own Borderlands 2 in order to play the title. The game is available to purchase for Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Xbox Series X/S and PlayStation 5 via backward compatibility, as well as Steam. The game is also available on the Epic Games Store, where it will be free to claim until November 16.
Gaming Tiny Tina's Wonderlands is the latest installment in the Borderlands franchise. The game takes place after the Assault on Dragon Keep DLC for Borderlands 2 and features everyone's favorite 13-year-old demolitionist, Tiny Tina. In a world designed and manipulated by Tiny Tina, Wonderlands sends players through a fantastical realm to shoot down baddies, gather loot, and take on the infamous Dragon Lord.
To get you up to date on this upcoming looter-shooter, we've rounded up everything you need to know about Tiny Tina's Wonderlands. Details are scarce right now, but we have a little bit of information on the release date, gameplay, multiplayer, and pre-orders.
Gaming A new trailer for Tiny Tina's Wonderlands introduces some of the game's character classes, environments, and combat mechanics. The Borderlands spinoff will feature several different character classes, two of which are the melee-focused Brr-Zerker and the stealthy, assassin-style Stabbomancer.
Welcome to Wonderlands #1: Stabbomancer and Brr-Zerker - Tiny Tina's Wonderlands Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
