Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Our 10 favorite Wonder Effects in Super Mario Bros. Wonder By Tomas Franzese Close Nintendo Super Mario Bros. Wonder’s defining gimmick is its series of Wonder Effects. A Wonder Flower is hidden somewhere on almost every level and, once found, radically switches up what is going on within that stage. Some expand on ideas the stage was already exploring, while others are wildly unpredictable, giving players something they were not expecting at all.
Piranha Plants on Parade Bulrush Coming Through! Condarts Away Up ‘n Down with Puffy Lifts Maw Maw Mouthful Upshroom Downshroom Dragon Boneyard Wavy Ride Through Magma Tube Missile Meg Mayhem Evade the Seeker Bullet Bills There are over 69 stages with Wonder Effects that players can see while playing through the story of Super Mario Bros. Wonder , but 10 of those Wonder Effects effects stood out the most during my playthrough. By order of appearance, these are my 10 favorite Wonder Effects in Super Mario Bros. Wonder , which showcase just how inventive and unpredictable the platformer is.
Piranha Plants on Parade The second Wonder Effect players will encounter in Super Mario Bros. Wonder is one of its best. After finding the Wonder Flower in Piranha Plants on Parade, the stage’s titular enemies will start belting out a song that shares its title with the stage. As players make their way through the rest of the level, they’ll dodge or fight some of these singing Piranha Plants while other ones dance in the level’s foreground and pop out of pipes to the song’s rhythm. Piranha Plants on Parade immediately establishes that players should expect the unexpected when it comes to Wonder Effects in Super Mario Bros. Wonder.
It’s a joyously absurd level I’m still thinking about after beating the game.
Super Mario RPG is halfway between a remaster and remake The best video games of October 2023: Mario, Spider-Man 2, and more Super Mario Bros. Wonder has some of Nintendo’s best online features Bulrush Coming Through! There are multiple Wonder Effects where Mario and friends have to ride on a stampede of some sort throughout most of the level to find a Wonder Seed. Bulrush Coming Through! remains my favorite, though. It’s the first of its kind that I encountered during my adventure, so its central gameplay twist, the first instance of a timer appearing, and other moments like the destruction of the end-of-stage flag had a novelty here. I also love that it’s possible to see Bulrush enemies stampeding through the stage’s background. It plays into the feeling that this level is a living world of its own and rewards those of us who take the time to look at Super Mario Bros. Wonder ‘s gorgeous backgrounds with something pretty funny.
Condarts Away In Fluff-Puff Peaks, the stage Condarts Away features one of Super Mario Bros. Wonder’s most annoying enemies: Condarts that launch themselves toward the plaery when they walk under them. These were tough enough to dodge in a 2D platformer setup, but things became even more challenging when I picked up a Wonder Seed, as it temporarily turned into a top-down game. Similar to the indie game Toodee and Topdee , I was now walking on what was once the stage’s background walls while avoiding Condarts like this was a bullet hell game and not a 2D platformer. Including that enemy made this the best top-down Wonder Effect in Super Mario Bros. Wonder , so it remains one of my favorites in the game.
Up ‘n Down with Puffy Lifts Up ‘n Down with Puffy Lifts contains my favorite Wonder Effect of this second world. Throughout the whole stage, the central conceit is that Mario and friends are platforming on the titular cake-like Puffy Lifts, which compress when weight is put on them. That alone is a clever stage gimmick that kept me thinking about how long I stayed on certain platforms, so it was a surprising joy when a Wonder Effect turned me into a Puffy Lift. The main challenge then became keeping objects off the top of my Puffy Lift character, which forced me to think methodically about when and where to jump throughout the whole Puffy Lift section.
Maw Maw Mouthful This Petal Isles Wonder Effect that transforms players into a Goomba was all over the marketing of Super Mario Bros. Wonder.
 I get why: it’s one of the game’s most game-changing Wonder Effects. Like capturing an enemy with Cappy in Super Mario Odyssey for the first time, this Wonder Effect transforms players into one of Mario’s most iconic enemies. It essentially turns Super Mario Bros. Wonder into a stealth game for a bit. The stage’s titular Maw Maws are natural predators of Goomba, and will rush for and eat one if they spot it. As it’s not easy to fight back as a Goomba, the rest of the stage is then spent dashing from cover to cover behind trees and bushes, hoping you aren’t spotted and eaten by a Maw Maw along the way. It’s one of Super Mario Bros. Wonder’s tensest Wonder Effects and a great level to show someone to demonstrate how much Wonder Effects can shake things up.
Upshroom Downshroom Like Piranha Plants on Parade, Upshroom Downshroom features another Wonder Effect that essentially turns the stage into a music level. Instead of a Piranha Plant singalong, though, it’s a Halloween dance party as all the enemies in the stage start dancing to a song called Pumpkin Party. The aesthetics and tone of this Wonder Effect are a perfect fit for the October spooky season. I’ll probably go back to play this stage on Halloween, and you should, too. Regardless of the time of year, it’s another reminder of how excellent the music-based Wonder Effects are.
Dragon Boneyard For most of Dragon Boneyard, I was platforming across the titular fossils while trying to avoid lava. I had assumed this level’s Wonder Effect would have me run away from a massive rolling fossil, Indiana Jones-style, but what actually happened was a lot more magical. The Wonder Flower brought one of the dragons back to life — it looks like an ancestor to Yoshi — and I got to ride it. The dragon looked happy to be alive again, creating yet another spectacle that I won’t be forgetting anytime soon. I can tell Nintendo really likes this Wonder Effect, too, because the dragons are brought back a couple more times in Super Mario Bros. Wonder , including during the final stage where players take on Bowser.
Wavy Ride Through Magma Tube Wavy Ride Through Magma Tube’s Wonder Effect essentially adds a mini-boss to Super Mario Bros. Wonder.
 Most of this stage tasks players with riding platforms as they slowly move through the titular magma tube. If players hit a block at the right time along the way, they’ll trigger a Wonder Effect that activates a statue in the stage’s background. They then have to spend around 40 seconds dodging the balls of magma that it spits out in a brief platforming endurance test that rewards players with a Wonder Seed. Surprisingly, there weren’t other Wonder Effects like this in the game, which means I’m remembering this encounter from what was otherwise a pretty innocuous lava stage.
Missile Meg Mayhem Even in the game’s final world, some impressive Wonder Effects still appear. Missile Meg Mayhem is all about platforming on the titular Bullet Bill variants, which can also serve as temporary platforms when jumped on. After activating the Wonder Effect of this level, players can ride a long Missile Meg out of the dreary factory that most of the level takes place in and soar into the clouds. Like Dragon Boneyard, this is a Wonder Effect I enjoyed more for its spectacle than the gameplay, thanks to the colorful jet fume trails the Missile Megs leave behind and all the fireworks going off in the background.
Evade the Seeker Bullet Bills Finally, Evade the Seeker Bullet Bills stands out as one of Super Mario Bros. Wonder’s defining Wonder Effects. This is one of the game’s more challenging stages, as the Seeker Bullet Bills constantly launch themselves around the level. That’s why it’s incredibly satisfying when the game turns the tables against these enemies by giving players a boat and cannon to launch bombs from. This exciting ride on a boat down this acid rivre gave me one final action-focused Wonder Effect power trip before the final confrontation with Bowser. Up until the end, Super Mario Bros. Wonder was surprising me with its quirky Wonder Effect ideas — and that’s what makes it so special.
Super Mario Bros. Wonder is available now on Nintendo Switch.
Editors' Recommendations Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday Mario Kart 8 Deluxe’s final DLC brings the series most iconic track It’s Super Mario Bros. Wonder’s subtle changes that make it special Super Mario Bros. Wonder didn’t need a Nintendo Switch 2 to look fantastic Wonder no more: the new voice of Mario has revealed himself Features Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming In April 2024, Nintendo will discontinue online services across its Wii U and 3DS consoles. While the eShops for both systems were shut down in March 2023, this will remove the online functionality of many apps and games, making gaming on either of these platforms an almost entirely offline experience. As a result, many games on those systems will lose important features and never be quite the same to play afterward. So, you'll need to get some gaming time in by next April if you want to refresh and preserve the memories of playing online on these two underdog Nintendo platforms.
While the aforementioned eShop closures make it impossible to buy new games digitally, plenty of games that you likely already own physical copies of or already had downloaded have online features that won't work properly come April 2024. As such, we recommend you play the following games online before the discontinuation of those services next year.
Kid Icarus Uprising Kid Icarus Uprising is mostly remembered for its entertaining story, charismatic characters, and odd controls, but it also features a surprisingly fun multiplayer experience in Together Mode. In multiplayer, up to six players can use powerful weapons and abilities from the main adventure in one of two modes. Free-for-all lets players loose on a map, tasking them with racking up the most kills within a set time limit. Light vs. Dark is more complex, as two teams of three face off until enough players are defeated that one respawns as an angel; when that powered-up angel is killed, the match is over.
While far from balanced, Kid Icarus Uprising's Together Mode is one of the most entertaining competitive multiplayer experiences exclusive to 3DS. It can be played locally, using bots to fill in empty spots, so thankfully it won't stop working entirely. Still, it's not easy in 2023 to come across multiple people near you who have copies of Kid Icarus Uprising and want to play. As such, check out this cult classic 3DS game's hidden gem of a mode before praying that the rumors of a remaster eventually become true.
Nintendo Badge Arcade Gaming We’re officially on “new console watch.” Reports from credible publications like Eurogamer say that Nintendo secretly showed developers its next system behind closed doors at this year’s Gamescom. While it’s only a rumor, it’s a realistic one. We’re six years into the Nintendo Switch’s lifespan and even the longest-running consoles turn over at eight. If Nintendo’s next system is one or two years away, it’s time to start lining up support from third-party developers.
We’ve speculated on features we’d want in a new system before, but the reality of a new platform has me asking another question: What games would you launch with something like this? The Nintendo Switch’s launch day was crucial to its long-term success thanks to a bonafide classic in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. While the rest of its launch lineup wasn’t as impressive, Nintendo capitalized fairly quickly with titles like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and Splatoon 2. If Nintendo’s going to push Switch owners over to a new system, it’ll have to roll out the big guns.
Gaming Some fans never thought it would happen, but the seemingly impossible has been achieved. Super Mario RPG, a remake of the Squaresoft-developed Super Mario RPG: The Legend of the Seven Stars, has been officially announced. Many people will be more familiar with Mario's two main RPG series, the Paper Mario and Mario and Luigi games, but it was this collaboration that was the plumber's first foray into the RPG genre. Since Nintendo didn't own the IP, it wasn't able to continue the series itself, leading to those other series that took many elements from Super Mario RPG. This classic holds a special place in many gamers' hearts, as it served as the introduction to RPGs for many gamers and includes a cast of unique characters we haven't seen since. Get ready to hit those action-commands and ensure your Flower Points are full as we go through everything we know about Super Mario RPG.
Release date Super Mario RPG is set to arrive on November 11, 2023.
Platforms Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
