Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Features Super Mario RPG is halfway between a remaster and remake By Giovanni Colantonio Close Between The Super Mario Bros. Movie and Super Mario Bros. Wonder , it’s been a banner year for the Italian video game icon – and it’s not over yet. On November 17, Nintendo will cap off a successful 2023 with the hotly anticipated Super Mario RPG.
 The surprising release brings back one of the plumber’s most eccentric adventures, 1996’s Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars for the Super Nintendo. It’s a neglected cult classic that’s been long overdue for some attention.
An aesthetic refresh A new battle system The question, though, is what kind of treatment a title like that deserves. Should Nintendo simply have rereleased it on Switch Online ? Would an HD remaster suffice? Or was a full remake in order? If the Switch version is any indication, Nintendo may have found itself a little stumped with that question too.
Ahead of its launch later this month, I played through the first three hours of Super Mario RPG (so far, I’ve approached three star pieces and teamed up with the fan favorite Geno). That would give me a strong idea of how Nintendo is approaching the release. And based on everything I’ve seen so far, Super Mario RPG sits in something of a middle ground between remaster and remake. It’s an incredibly faithful refresh of a genre classic, though one that might leave newcomers a little confused at first.
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe’s final DLC brings the series most iconic track Our 10 favorite Wonder Effects in Super Mario Bros. Wonder Super Mario Bros. Wonder has some of Nintendo’s best online features An aesthetic refresh Super Mario RPG may come with a total graphical overhaul, but it doesn’t stray very far from the original 1996 release. It’s so close that I was able to solve some tricky puzzles — like a minigame in Melody Bay that has Mario jumping on the backs of tadpoles to compose a song — by referring back to ancient strategy guides on GameFAQs and YouTube. The first three hours are a nearly one-to-one experience, which is good news for fans who want a very faithful experience.
The main difference comes in its aesthetic departments. The most exciting change here is a newly rerecorded soundtrack, which does the original RPG’s memorable score justice. Every composition sounds more lush and fully realized, bringing some vibrant personality to locations like Rose Town and Moleville. Purists can even choose to swap back to the classic recordings at any time via the main menu, which is a nice preservation touch.
Nintendo The larger change comes from its visual refresh. Gone are the SNES’ thick sprites and almost Claymation-like environments. All of that’s been smoothed over to bring it more in line with the modern ( pre- Wonder ) Mario look. It turns the world into a colorful cartoon, though Nintendo doesn’t do away with the original’s general design in the process. It still feels like I’m a kid moving my toys around small dioramas.
On top of that, excellent new cinematics really bring the 1996 release’s best moments to life by breaking out of the original’s limited, isometric perspective. The moment where Geno springs to life especially stands out. Rather than just watching him sprout from a doll to a living being in a few blinks, we’re treated to a more dynamic sequence where he stumbles around clumsily as he gets his bearings. It’s a lovely sequence that matched the way my imagination filled in the gaps previously.
Nintendo Those modernizations are much welcomed, but they do make areas that haven’t been upgraded stand out. The oddest aesthetic choice is that Nintendo opted out of adding voices to characters. When Mallow speaks during a new cutscene, he’s completely silent as subtitles appear on screen. Even Mario stays silent, with not so much as a “wa-hoo” filling in blank spaces (an off choice considering Kevin Afghani just made a strong debut as Mario in Wonder ). While faithful to the original, it’s an absence that feels at odds with the rest of the refresh; it’s all just a bit too quiet.
A new battle system While the story and general gameplay feel entirely unaltered outside of aesthetic refreshes so far, there are a few major changes to be found in combat. The basics of battle are identical here, with timing-based moves, random flowers that grant bonuses mid-battle, and spells that come with their own quick minigames. That’s all reinforced with some simple quality of life changes. For instance, an exclamation point now appears to telegraph when players should press buttons during attacks and defenses. No guesswork is required anymore.
As an even smaller example, the “Lucky” minigame returns in which players can double their experience points or coins by correctly finding a Yoshi in three shuffling eggs. That was a serious gamble in the original release, as it was hard to pin down where Yoshi moved to each time. That’s significantly easier this time around, as I’ve yet to fail in my three hours of playtime.
Nintendo In general, Super Mario RPG seems much easier than its predecessor so far — and that’s not a bad thing. It’s mostly thanks to little changes like these that cut away some tedium. Autosaving, for instance, makes it so I’m no longer set back very far after a death. It’s also easier to fix up my party on the fly between battles with a more organized mini menu that groups items together (no more scrolling through 10 mushrooms to find syrup) and a quick ability menu that lets me use Mallow’s healing rain outside of battle.
The more impactful change comes from a new power gauge, which ties into a reworked combo system. When players correctly time moves, they’ll chain together into a combo that grants buffs the higher the number goes. Successful chains can raise the team’s damage, for example. That’ll also fill a gauge on the left-hand side of the screen. When it hits 100% initially, players can trigger a Toad Assist that’ll give Mario and Mallow random buffs or execute a special attack. When Geno joins the party, Toad Assist turns into a devastating triple attack that comes with its own exciting battle cinematic. It’s a smart addition that better encourages players to learn perfect timings and nail their nuances.
Nintendo Though that’s an exciting change, I’ve run into some circumstances where some more archaic parts of the unaltered combat poke through. A single battle against a pair of enemies that could turn me into a useless Mushroom dragged on for over 10 minutes as I got trapped in a loop when my teammates went down. I couldn’t attack as enemies repeatedly inflicted the status effect on me every other turn. It was a frustrating pain point that signaled that there may not be a lot of retooling happening under the surface.
That leaves Super Mario RPG in a strange place so far. It’s still the same great game it’s always been, but I’m not entirely sure if it’s a better version of it. SNES quirks stand out like a sore thumb here underneath modern sights and sounds. It’s a project that sometimes feels like a loving ode to the original and then like a hastily assembled double-dip in other moments (some cinematics even happen on empty gray backgrounds that feel half-finished). Its success will hinge on the power of the base game. Is the adventure still magical enough on its own to overcome some patchy remake flaws? That answer could very well be yes, but I’ve got four more stars to find before I can say for sure.
Super Mario RPG launches on November 17 for Nintendo Switch.
Editors' Recommendations Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday The best video games of October 2023: Mario, Spider-Man 2, and more It’s Super Mario Bros. Wonder’s subtle changes that make it special Wonder no more: the new voice of Mario has revealed himself Play these 3DS and Wii U games before Nintendo shutters their online features Features Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming When I first saw WarioWare: Move It! On a Nintendo Direct, I almost forgot it wasn’t the series’ first entry on Nintendo Switch. Just two years ago, WarioWare: Get It Together! brought the eclectic microgame collection back from obscurity, but it didn’t leave too much of an imprint. In my review at the time, I chalked that up to the entry’s lack of a good central gimmick. The series’ best entries, like the Nintendo Wii’s standout Smooth Moves, have always been tied to some sort of tech twist that makes for wildly creative, goofy experiences. Get It Together simply didn’t have that spark.
WarioWare: Move It! - Nintendo Direct 6.21.2023 Gaming We’re officially on “new console watch.” Reports from credible publications like Eurogamer say that Nintendo secretly showed developers its next system behind closed doors at this year’s Gamescom. While it’s only a rumor, it’s a realistic one. We’re six years into the Nintendo Switch’s lifespan and even the longest-running consoles turn over at eight. If Nintendo’s next system is one or two years away, it’s time to start lining up support from third-party developers.
We’ve speculated on features we’d want in a new system before, but the reality of a new platform has me asking another question: What games would you launch with something like this? The Nintendo Switch’s launch day was crucial to its long-term success thanks to a bonafide classic in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. While the rest of its launch lineup wasn’t as impressive, Nintendo capitalized fairly quickly with titles like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and Splatoon 2. If Nintendo’s going to push Switch owners over to a new system, it’ll have to roll out the big guns.
Gaming Some fans never thought it would happen, but the seemingly impossible has been achieved. Super Mario RPG, a remake of the Squaresoft-developed Super Mario RPG: The Legend of the Seven Stars, has been officially announced. Many people will be more familiar with Mario's two main RPG series, the Paper Mario and Mario and Luigi games, but it was this collaboration that was the plumber's first foray into the RPG genre. Since Nintendo didn't own the IP, it wasn't able to continue the series itself, leading to those other series that took many elements from Super Mario RPG. This classic holds a special place in many gamers' hearts, as it served as the introduction to RPGs for many gamers and includes a cast of unique characters we haven't seen since. Get ready to hit those action-commands and ensure your Flower Points are full as we go through everything we know about Super Mario RPG.
Release date Super Mario RPG is set to arrive on November 11, 2023.
Platforms Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
