Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder By Jesse Lennox Close Super Mario Bros. Wonder is taking the series back to its 2D roots with a new and exciting art style and a ton of new mechanics. Alongside new power-ups and badges, this title has perhaps the largest amount of collectibles and hidden secrets of any game in the series.
 Between all the Wonder Seeds, Wonder Flowers, Flower Coins, and more, there’s no shortage of things to do as you run, jump, and flip your way through all the various worlds. Among all the playable characters to choose from, one non-playable character makes his triumphant return. Captain Toad has managed to make his way to the Flower Kingdom, but this intrepid explorer is not so easy to find. Each time you interact with him, he will reward you with some Flower Coins and a hint at an upcoming world, so let’s hunt down all his locations in Super Mario Wonder.
All Captain Toad locations Nintendo Captain Toad appears in five unique spots on the Super Mario Bros. Wonder world map. Talking to him at each spot will give you a little bit more of his story, plus the aforementioned rewards.
First Captain Toad location Nintendo Our first encounter with the infamous Toad is in World 1 — Pipe-Rock Plateau. To get to the part of the map where he’s found, you must first enter and find the secret exit on the Piranha Plants on Parade level. From that exit point, you can now go to a new pipe that leads to the top of a skull-shaped volcano on Petal Isles. Captain Toad will introduce himself and give you 50 Flower Coins to help you on your quest.
Second Captain Toad location Nintendo Further into World 1, where the zone becomes more of a desert, you will see a path leading north that is blocked. You will need to pay to clear it so you can go to the upper corner of Pipe-Rock Plateau where the Parachute Cap I challenge is. Keep going toward the upper-right corner of the map to get a prompt to enter a secret pipe. You will be spat out in Fluff-Puff Peaks right next to Toad. He still hasn’t found his treasure yet, but will give you another 50 Flower Coins.
Third Captain Toad location Nintendo The last location in World 1 is near Angry Spikes and Sinkin’ Pipes. From that stage, go back and to the right behind the foreground to another secret pipe entrance. As always, Captain Toad has a gift of 50 Flower Coins for you after talking to him, Fourth Captain Toad location Nintendo You won’t encounter Captain Toad again until you make it all the way to World 4. Starting from The Desert Mystery stage, head up the stairs until you come to a fork. Take the bridge ahead and then the next left and go all the way around the outside path behind the elevated platform with the question mark block on it. Directly behind it is another secret pipe. Talk with the very brave Captain Toad for an easy 50 Flower Coins.
Fifth Captain Toad location Nintendo The last stop on Captain Toad’s trip can be found right after the prior one. After coming back through the pipe, head back down to the desert floor and stand on all three stone square tiles on the ground to open a secret path in the north wall. Run past both stages here and behind the wall on the right to find the last hidden pipe. Captain Toad will have, you guessed it, 50 more Flower Coins to bestow upon you.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked All Lunchbox locations in Alan Wake 2 All Word of Power locations in Alan Wake 2 All Marko’s Memories locations in Spider-Man 2 All Mysterium locations in Spider-Man 2 Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Get me pictures of Spider-Man! Well, actually, in Spider-Man 2 you never actually have to snap any pics of either Spider-Man. As established in the first game, Peter has already moved on from his job as a photographer for the Bugle and is focused completely on science (when not saving the day, of course). When that doesn't work out well enough to pay the bills, he falls back on his old freelance photography gig to help make ends meet by going to key spots around the map to snap some shots to sell. These are among the most numerous icons you will see pop up on your map as you play, and while each one only rewards two City Tokens for completing them, they take a few seconds at most to get the perfect shot. Let's take a tour of the city to find all the photo-op locations in Spider-Man 2.
All photo-op locations Photo-ops will populate the map in batches as you go through the game, but ultimately, there will be 23 unique spots you will need to stop and get a picture of to complete the entire quest. To snap the perfect picture, swipe down on the touchpad to open up your camera app when near the target area and look for whatever subject you need to capture. This will be obvious in nearly all situations, such as the above mascots, or a piece of art, or even entire buildings. The camera itself will help you as well. If you're in range, the text will let you know if the subject is in view, obscured, or in focus. Once the ring is green, that shot will count and you can hit R1 to take the shot. After each one, you get a little bit of context and dialogue about whatever it is you are submitting.
Gaming After the events of Miles Morales, the Prowler has officially retired by the time Marvel's Spider-Man 2 begins. While he can't help Miles out in action anymore, his uncle still has some secrets in store for his super-powered nephew. Before he was forced to hang up his hood, Prowler had a series of resource caches stashed all over the city. With him no longer able to make use of them, he tells you how to find and open them to get the goodies inside. This is one of the best ways to get your hands on Rare Tech parts needed for upgrades in the game. Let's track down all these hidden Prowler Stashes in Spider-Man 2.
All Prowler Stash locations There are nine total Prowler Stashes in Spider-Man 2, with some locked until you get to certain points in the story to keep you from looting them all at once. Once you get close, you will see a section of a building, almost always the rooftop, glowing in an outline of the zone where the stash is. Enter and solve the little puzzle to find and grab the rewards. Here is where you can find each stash: Gaming Much of your time in Super Mario Bros. Wonder's colorful and vibrant levels is spent collecting Flower Coins and finding fun power-ups that can help you take out enemies, but there are some well-hidden secrets to discover, too. Most notably, you'll want to keep an eye out for secret exits that can uncover some really exciting new stuff to enjoy.
There are a total of seven secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, and if you're looking to find each and every one of them, look no further than our list below. Of course, you'll want to play the levels through completely if you're looking to find all badges and medals in the game.
Piranha Plants on Parade (World 1) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
