Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides The best Metroidvania games By Jacob Roach Close The Metroidvania genre — known for crossing elements of Super Metroid and Castlevania: Symphony of the Night — has seen a boon among indie developers in recent years. It’s a testament to how influential some games from the SNES and PlayStation are, but also an opportunity for budding developers to flex their game-design muscle. Open-ended exploration and an interconnected world are the names of the game when it comes to Metroidvanias, and our list of the best Metroidvania games features 12 excellent examples of that.
Hollow Knight The Messenger Ori and the Blind Forest Iconoclasts Dead Cells Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night Axiom Verge Blasphemous SteamWorld Dig 2 Guacamelee! Supraland Yoku’s Island Express Before diving in, note that we limited our list to games that are commercially available on PC and current-gen consoles.
Further reading The best indie games The best open-world games The best video games to play while stuck at home Hollow Knight Team Cherry Hollow Knight does everything right. The death loop is like Dark Souls and the level design is like Super Metroid, but in the midst of games trying to emulate those two, Hollow Knight feels surprisingly new. Developer Team Cherry clearly understands what makes its influences tick. The result is a game that wears its influences on its sleeve without being afraid to forge its own path.
Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more One of the year’s best reviewed games is coming to Xbox Game Pass The best Skill Cards in Dead Island 2 And forge a path it does. Everything in Hollow Knight works together to create a seamless world that you want to explore. Like Dark Souls, Hollow Knight hands out story beats like hors d’oeuvres, giving you a small hint at what’s below the surface. The difference between it and similar games is that Hollow Knight actually has things going on below the surface. The depths of Hallownest are rife with detail, with imaginative boss designs and even more interesting NPCs. Plus, Hollow Knight has four massive pieces of DLC, and all of them are included in the game for free.
The Messenger Image used with permission by copyright holder The Messenger is often cited as a platformer that only turns into a Metroidvania halfway through. If you’re not familiar, The Messenger starts as an homage to Ninja Gaiden, with linear platforming and combat drenched in a Ninja theme. Halfway through the game, it jumps from 8-bit to 16-bit — not the first or last time The Messenger breaks the fourth wall. The second half of the game forces you to jump back and forth between eras as you explore the levels you’ve already visited in typical Metroidvania fashion.
The Messenger is a Metroidvania all the way through, though. Exploration just isn’t possible at first. Instead of handing out different exploration-related upgrades piecemeal — the case for most other games in the genre — The Messenger gives you everything at once. Exploration isn’t an option in the game; it’s a part of the game. Even among a list of the best Metroidvania games, The Messenger stands out by nudging players toward the fun. It serves as a nice change of pace for genre veterans, as well as an easily digestible starting point for newcomers.
Ori and the Blind Forest Image used with permission by copyright holder Ori and the Blind Forest is a beautiful game, and its sequel, Ori and the Will of the Wisps , is just as good. We’re giving this slot to the original game, though. The game begins with a 10-minute opening section that will fill your heart with warmth before ripping it out of your chest. Metroidvanias usually aren’t strong in the story department, but Ori and the Blind Forest changes that. It has a dramatic and moving narrative that’s never cheesy or pretentious.
That comes down to atmosphere.
Blind Forest ‘s hand-drawn world feels organic, threatening, and beautiful, usually all at the same time. It’s a masterclass in world design and narrative, all set to the backdrop of Metroidvania-like exploration and platforming. If you’re new to the series, we recommend starting with Blind Forest.
The story continues in the second game, and although Will of the Wisps has boss encounters and even more mechanics, that doesn’t undermine just how great Blind Forest is.
Iconoclasts Image used with permission by copyright holder Iconoclasts is only a Metroidvania upon further inspection. The world is interconnected, and various upgrades for the protagonist Robin unlock different areas of the map. That’s not the crux of the game, though.
Iconoclasts brings wonderfully complex puzzles into the fold, taking the focus off of using new abilities and bringing it to how to use those new abilities. The story is shockingly good, too. You play as Robin, an unlicensed mechanic in a world where only licensed mechanics are allowed to handle Ivory (the power source behind the game’s many machines). Against a government soaked in an unjust religion, your job is to fight back.
Like Axiom Verge, which we’ll get to in a moment, Iconclasts was made by a single developer. Joakim “konjak” Sandberg is behind the game’s design, coding, and music.
Dead Cells Image used with permission by copyright holder You can define Dead Cells with almost every detested buzzword in the gaming industry, and it’s still a great game. It’s a roguelike Metroidvania with procedural generation and branching paths (we warned you). None of that makes Dead Cells special, though. It’s a combination of progression systems and feel that set Dead Cells ahead of the pack.
Even after you’ve died and run through the same levels over again, Dead Cells lets you know that you’re making progress. Items you’ve unlocked show up in the prison at the beginning of each run, and between biomes, the game forces you to pour all of your Cells — one of the currencies in the game — into upgrades. As for feel, Dead Cells actually feels a little clunky at first. Jumping, in particular, isn’t as “floaty” as it is in other Metroidvanias. Once you get a handle on the controls, though, you’ll feel like a master of the game.
Read our Dead Cells review Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s hard not mentioning a modern Metroidvania created by a developer who helped define the genre.
Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night is a sidescroller from Koji Igarashi, the programmer and designer behind Symphony of the Night.
Knowing that, Bloodstained ‘s title should tell you everything you need to know.
Ritual of the Night plays like a Castlevania game because it basically is one.
Exploration is key, of course, but Ritual of the Night stands out from our other entries with different weapons and spells, as well as a full upgrade system. The game doesn’t play the Metroid role well, but for Castlevania fans, there’s nothing better. If you prefer a more retro aesthetic, Bloodstained: Curse of the Moon and its sequel offer bite-sized, 8-bit experiences that take place in the same world.
Axiom Verge Image used with permission by copyright holder Axiom Verge is to Metroid what Ritual of the Night is to Symphony of the Night.
And it gets things right. Part of the reason Axiom Verge is so intriguing is that the game gives you very little to go on. The game opens with a harrowing scene of a research lab in New Mexico, broken to pieces by some untold force. It sets up a lot of questions and gives very little answers, paving the way for the rest of the game to play out.
Axiom Verge is always one step ahead of the player, giving out just enough plot details to keep the player going. The game clearly has Metroid written all over it, but it’s not afraid to break the mold. An arsenal of weapons and some unique abilities push Axiom Verge beyond its source material, making for a game that feels more like a love letter than a ripoff. Even more impressive, the game was made by a single person. Tom Happ is responsible for all of the coding, art, music, and game design. If you’re interested in playing Axiom Verge, you should jump on it fast; Axiom Verge 2 is slated to launch later this year.
Blasphemous Image used with permission by copyright holder Blasphemous is a game that sticks with you. It doesn’t apologize for its overt religious themes and high Gothic imagery, making for a game that’s equal parts intriguing and unsettling. Like Hollow Knight, developer The Game Kitchen has supported Blasphemous with free, post-launch DLC, all without charging a dime more for the game. If you’re looking for a Metroidvania that takes things a little more seriously, Blasphemous is for you.
Imagery is the game’s strong point, though. Mechanically, it plays like a 2D Dark Souls, fit with a bonfire saving system, ruthless difficulty, and similar swordplay. The mechanics are executed well, but Blasphemous doesn’t break the mold.
SteamWorld Dig 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Saying SteamWorld Dig 2 is a sequel to SteamWorld Dig is like saying The Dark Knight is a sequel to Batman Begins.
It’s true, technically, but it undermines just how much better the second iteration is. Instead of a procedurally generated world like the first game, SteamWorld Dig 2 has a large, static map. Over other Metroidvanias, Dig 2 stands out with its titular traversal mechanic. There are open platforming sections, but most of your time in Dig 2 is spent digging into the Earth to uncover passageways and hidden areas.
The loop of digging and coming back to the surface to sell loot and buy upgrades is addicting, and even more so with the world design and art style.
SteamWorld Dig 2 brings together old and new in a way few other titles have.
Guacamelee! Image used with permission by copyright holder Guacamelee is a lot like Hollow Knight.
From a design standpoint, it borrows liberally from Super Metroid.
Interconnected levels reveal new upgrades, which allow you to journey deeper into the map. Like Hollow Knight, though, Guacamelee isn’t concerned with emulating the past. In a sea of pixel-art platformers, Guacamelee goes with a hand-drawn world, and instead of guns and missiles, the game is focused on hand-to-hand combat. That’s not to mention its thoroughly enjoyable lucha libre theme.
Read our Guacamelee! review Supraland Image used with permission by copyright holder Supraland describes itself as a “mix between Portal, Zelda , and Metroid, ” and we can see elements from all of those games. It’s not impressive that Supraland has so many influences, but that it manages to balance them at all.
Portal- like puzzles pave the way to Metroid- like secrets, all with a Zelda-like upgrade system.
Supraland is all about exploration, and it manages to encourage that more so than any other Metroidvania of recent memory.
It’s not another 2D platformer, either.
Supraland is among a small handful of games — Metroid Prime comes to mind — that properly bring the sense of 2D exploration into the third dimension. It’s the most unique game on our list, by far, but it’s also one of the best.
Yoku’s Island Express Image used with permission by copyright holder Yoku’s Island Express has all of the tenets of a Metroidvania — branching objectives, a large map with plenty to explore, and platforming sections. The difference is that you traverse the map with pinball mechanics. You play as Yoku, who’s recently arrived on Mokumana as a postal worker. Yoku is tied to a ball, and instead of jumping and dashing, you use pins and bumpers to get around.
There are a lot of reasons to like Yoku’s Island Express, from the different characters you meet on your journey to the game’s whimsical art style. Pinball is the core of the game, though. Without precise control over platforming, you’ll often find yourself in a completely different area of the map. Instead of being frustrating, ending up in a different spot is exciting, giving you an opportunity to explore an area you might not have visited otherwise. Creative and wonderfully crafted, Yoku’s Island Express is a must-play.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Every video game delay that has happened in 2023 so far The best weapon mods and perks in Dead Island 2 The best free Nintendo Switch games The best Xbox Series X headsets Buying Guides Buying Guides Gaming Even barehanded, Kartos is a force to be reckoned with. Starting off in God of War Ragnarok, he is far from unarmed, however. Picking up where the last game left off, Kratos retains his trusty Leviathan Axe, as well as his old Blades of Chaos, to hack, slash, and smash any gods or monsters that threaten him or his son. For whatever reason, though, he has lost all the skills with those weapons he picked up in his first Norse adventure.
Starting essentially from scratch, the skill trees in God of War Ragnarok will look familiar to players of the first game or really any similar RPG. Skills are broken up based on weapon or character and then into further divisions based on what type of skill they are. XP comes slow, especially in the early game, so knowing what skills will be the most useful is vital. Before you go picking a fight with Thor or Odin, check out the best skills to unlock in God of War Ragnarok.
Gaming Asymmetrical multiplayer games have come into their own over the past few years, with titles like Among Us, Dead by Daylight, and Back 4 Blood pulling in legions of players. Instead of giving two teams a similar set of abilities, asymmetrical games are purposefully lopsided -- one team might be larger but have less firepower, while the other team might be comprised of a single, powerful player.
It’s a unique concept and one that’s seen plenty of variation as new developers make their mark on the genre. There are plenty of titles to choose from nowadays, but not all of them are winners. If you need some help deciding what to install next, here are 11 of the best asymmetrical multiplayer games to play in 2022.
Gaming In the ink-filled world of Splatoon, you are given a ton of unique tools to spread your team's color all across the map. This will serve several purposes, from building up your points, letting you move faster, and of course, splatting your opposition. Your main method of ink dispersal will come via the many different weapons you can choose from. From basic blasters to paint rollers and even windshield wipers, you're never at a loss for options when it comes to spraying ink.
Abilities are supplemental skills that come in two main categories: abilities tied to weapons and abilities you can slot into any weapon. In total, Splatoon 3 has 26 to pick from, making it quite a lot to experiment with. Each one serves a different purpose, and while they all could technically fit someone's playstyle, there are clearly a few that outshine the rest. Before you jump into your next Turf War, check out which are the best abilities to take with you in Splatoon 3.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
