Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides The best open-world games By Gabe Gurwin and Jesse Lennox Close Just like you probably enjoy getting to choose your own path in real life, you want to have the same freedom in your favorite video game. Open-world games like The D ivisi on 2 have only continued to grow in popularity since their release.
The Division 2 Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice Borderlands 3 The Surge 2 The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim The Witcher III: Wild Hunt Batman: Arkham City Horizon Zero Dawn Middle-earth: Shadow of War The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Grand Theft Auto V Red Dead Redemption II Assassin’s Creed IV: Black Flag Minecraft Forza Horizon 4 Far Cry 4 Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain Dark Souls Marvel’s Spider-Man Watch Dogs: Legion Nier: Automata Sleeping Dogs Infamous: Second Son While this genre of gaming can be a little intimidating for anyone without tons of experience in gaming, there are plenty of great open-world games to chose from. Ranging from first-person shooter games to RPGs and action-adventure titles, our list will have something for everyone.
See more The best games to play with friends online The best free MMORPGs The Division 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder A major improvement in mission design, variety, and endgame content compared with its predecessor, Tom Clancy’s The Division 2 didn’t make drastic changes, but it implemented players’ feedback in a way that made it a much more enjoyable game. Weapons feel more like weapons and less like toys this time around, with normal enemies not taking dozens of bullets to kill, and Washington, D.C., has varied environments filled with businesses and greenery.
One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month The best Switch games for 2023 10 best gaming monitors of 2023: tested and reviewed Once players finish the main storyline in The Division 2 , the entire map changes, creating new threats that weren’t there at the beginning of the game. A return to New York City is even coming in a free update, and the purchase price includes expansions to keep the community together.
Read our full The Division 2 review Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice Image used with permission by copyright holder FromSoftware is famous for its world design, with Bloodborne and the Dark Souls series featuring some of the most memorable locations in video game history. However, the studio took things in a different direction with Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice by giving the protagonist jumping and zip-lining capabilities for climbing and planning ambushes. It completely changed how a FromSoftware world functions, requiring careful observation before moving on to the next area.
Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice put a greater emphasis on stealth than past FromSoftware games in order to capitalize on this new verticality, but also managed to deliver a brilliant parry-based combat system. It makes every battle feel important and functions beautifully in combination with stealth kills.
Read our full Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice review Borderlands 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Gearbox Software took years to finally deliver Borderlands 3 , but the wait was definitely worth it. Yes, the game is effectively more Borderlands, but the series isn’t limited to Pandora anymore. Instead, the Vault Hunters travel to several other planets with much different environments, including a neon city-planet that would fit in a Blade Runner movie.
The same shooter-looter formula from the past games is still in full effect for Borderlands 3 , and though there aren’t any drastic changes for naysayers, it is exactly what fans were hoping for. Combining great boss fights, creative weapons, and plenty of hidden areas with side quests to complete, it’s a world to get lost in for dozens of hours.
If you decide to get started, you can take a look at our guide to the best Weapons in Borderlands 3 as well as our guide to characters.
The Surge 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Surge featured a novel limb-targeting system and interesting streamlined take on a Souls-like experience, but its world was drab, and areas blended together because of the large industrial complex setting. For The Surge 2 , Deck13 took the action into a nearby city with much more variety. Giant forests, museums, corporate facilities, shopping centers, and even waterside depots are all included in the world, and it still manages to fold in on itself — sections you reach hours into the game will reveal themselves to be right next to much earlier areas.
What didn’t need to change was the combat, and it remains as tight and intense as ever. Players can choose from even more weapons, many found by defeating powerful bosses, and the game’s later stages kick up the difficulty considerably and test every move at players’ disposal.
The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim Image used with permission by copyright holder The standard by which other open-world games have been measured since its release in 2011, The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim is the best Bethesda game ever made — and given the number of ports it has received on everything from the Nintendo Switch to PlayStation VR, the company knows it.
Set in an unforgiving and often frozen world filled with undead creatures, giants, and plenty of fire-breathing dragons, Skyrim is so packed full of memorable lore and quests that it’s almost impossible to see the game in its entirety. Of course, that hasn’t stopped players from trying.
Read our full The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim review The Witcher III: Wild Hunt Image used with permission by copyright holder CD Projekt Red has a knack for telling intimate and grounded stories despite magic and fantasy elements so prevalent in its work, and this has never been more apparent than in The Witcher III: Wild Hunt.
 Set in an absolutely enormous open world filled with countless quests, The Witcher III somehow avoids having any filler.
The characters you meet are all interesting, the smallest side quests have unique and often funny twists and turns, and the environments are stunningly realized. It can be rather overwhelming, but those who only plan on playing one game for the next few years can do a whole lot worse.
Read our full T he Witcher III: Wild Hunt review Batman: Arkham City Image used with permission by copyright holder The best-realized version of Rocksteady Games’ Batman adventure, Batman: Akrham City has everything a fan could want in a video game. Gotham City’s closed-off prison has expanded into the streets, with gangs and famous villains free to commit heinous crimes with little repercussion.
The odds are stacked against the Caped Crusader, whose battle with the Joker reaches a climactic boiling point. Soaring through the air, throwing gadgets, and just pummeling enemies into oblivion feels amazing, and there are a ton of collectibles hidden in the city’s many nooks and crannies.
Read our full Batman: Arkham City review Horizon Zero Dawn Image used with permission by copyright holder Take robot dinosaurs, futuristic bows, and a civilization fractured to the point of being unrecognizable, and you get Horizon Zero Dawn.
 A full-fledged role-playing game and one of the best action titles of the generation, Horizon Zero Dawn gradually presents you with even more terrifying and difficult threats as you explore its destroyed post-apocalyptic world, and the mix of overgrown foliage and cold, sharp metal is nothing for of stunning.
With plenty of points to climb and multiple ways to approach combat scenarios, it makes the most of its space to deliver as a stealth game or an all-out action-packed shooter.
Read our full Horizon Zero Dawn review Middle-earth: Shadow of War Image used with permission by copyright holder The groundwork for Middle-earth: Shadow of War lies in its predecessor, Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor , but the sequel expands its massive Middle-earth setting with varied areas that show off the fiery, twisted mountains as well as the (slightly) more tranquil plains.
With the Nemesis system, you can run into a previous duel partner at nearly any moment, and they can strike you with an ambush attack in the middle of a different mission. Have your own supply of allied orcs, however, and you can strike fear into the heart of Sauron’s army and take the land for yourself.
With satisfying combat inspired by the Arkham series and plenty of gear customization options, it’s a can’t-miss open world game.
Read our full Middle-earth: Shadow of War review The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Image used with permission by copyright holder The illusion of immersion can often be broken in games that show their limits too clearly, such as locking off certain areas until you’ve reached a certain level or acquired a certain tool. In The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild , Nintendo hardly ever says “No.” If you want to blow past the majority of a dungeon by performing an odd trick with your bombs, or you want to circumvent the “correct” way of solving a puzzle by lining up your metal weapons and running electricity through them to complete a circuit, you can. If you even want to skip the entire game and just jump straight to the final boss, you can do that too, and Nintendo manages to do all of this without losing the heart and soul that made the series so popular.
Read our full The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild review Grand Theft Auto V Image used with permission by copyright holder Rockstar practically invented the modern open-world game with Grand Theft Auto III , and the series was never better than it was in 2013’s Grand Theft Auto V.
 Set in the gorgeous Los Santos and surrounding metropolitan area, Grand Theft Auto V features everything from bank robberies to a full-scale tennis simulator, and you can do any of them for hours on end.
With three protagonists to switch between at nearly any time, you can jump from destination to destination in a hurry, and the game’s online component lets you cause mayhem with your friends, as well.
Read our full Grand Theft Auto V review Red Dead Redemption II Red Dead Redemption 2/Rockstar It’s reductive to call Red Dead Redemption II a western version of the Grand Theft Auto series, but that’s only because you get even more freedom in Rockstar’s latest open-world adventure. The prequel offers a massive southwestern world to explore on horseback or foot, with different quest lines emerging naturally as you interact with locals or spot a dangerous outlaw in the wild.
Simply heading off in any direction almost always results in finding something interesting to do, whether it be a new animal to hunt, a bounty target to bring in, or a house to burglarize.
Read our full Red Dead Redemption II review Assassin’s Creed IV: Black Flag Image used with permission by copyright holder Wildly different from every preceding game in the series, Assassin’s Creed IV: Black Flag is ostensibly a game about the ongoing war between the Assassins and the Templars, but it’s actually the best pirate game ever in disguise.
With a ship loaded up with crew members, you can sail into the sea and ambush passersby, launching cannonballs at their hull before hopping aboard yourself and picking apart their measly fighters. Small island villages are surrounded by trees, creating unique stealth scenarios when taking out targets on land, and buried treasure gives you reason to explore the entire map.
Read our full Assassins’ Creed IV: Black Flag review Minecraft Image used with permission by copyright holder An open-world so large, you’ll never see the entire thing, Minecraft became every child’s obsession because its gameplay loop is so engrossing and addictive.
Finding resources while trying to fend off the elements and a variety of spooky monsters, your goal is to continue building a larger and more formidable home for yourself, and just when you thought you couldn’t make it any fancier, you discover a new element or construction technique to take your architectural abilities a step further.
Fun by yourself but even more enjoyable with a friend, Minecraft can become your only game – and it will if you let it.
Forza Horizon 4 Image used with permission by copyright holder Yes, you’re in a vehicle for the entirety of Forza Horizon 4 , but the latest game from Playground feels much more like an open-world game than a racing simulator. Rural England is filled with drifting challenges, ramps to jump, speed traps, and hidden cars to collect, and when you do finally try out a race, many of them take you on cross-country journeys through the woods, rolling hillsides, and even beaches. Friends can drop into your game at any moment, as well, and you can drive around tackling the many challenges together.
Read our full Forza Horizon 4 review Far Cry 4 Image used with permission by copyright holder Far Cry 3 reinvented the fish-out-of-water shooter series with its focus on charismatic villains, hunting and crafting, and all-out chaos, but it was its sequel that perfected the formula. Set in a fictional Himalayan country called Kyrat, the world of Far Cr 4 is similar in size to its predecessor, but it’s packed full of content like enemy outposts, climbable towers, hidden caves, and side missions.
With the series’ fantastic shooting controls, a worthy villain in Pagan Min, and a more personable protagonist, it’s an emotional and brutal journey for those willing to see it through to the end.
Read our full Far Cry 4 review Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain Image used with permission by copyright holder Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain de-emphasizes the best aspects of previous games in the series will emphasizing the things no one liked in those games, and it somehow works.
An open-world stealth-action game with dozens of ways to approach any situation, Big Boss can sneak into a base completely undetected to steal some intelligence, or he can call in an attack helicopter to support him as he floors it through the front gate on a truck filled with C4. The story is almost nonexistent at points, but the level of freedom Hideo Kojima and his team give to you makes it one of the best stealth games ever made.
Dark Souls Image used with permission by copyright holder It can often feel like you’re entering completely separate environments, but Dark Souls is indeed an open-world game, its labyrinth-like structure folding in on itself as you unlock its interconnecting paths and make your way back to its hub area.
Filled with some of the toughest challenges in video games, Dark Souls demands you full attention, but those willing to put in the time and effort will be rewarded with one of the best action-role-playing games ever. Endlessly replayable – and never any easier – it’s even better with the enhancements in Dark Souls: Remastered.
Read our full Dark Souls review Marvel’s Spider-Man Image used with permission by copyright holder Insomniac Games not only nailed the web-swinging movement in Marvel’s Spider-Man , which is undeniably the most important part of the game, but the studio also delivered a heartwarming and hilarious tale with a large roster of Marvel characters.
Soaring across New York City, Peter Parker is always ready with a silly quip, and when you find baddies in need of a butt-kicking, the game gives you a ton of acrobatic abilities. You can tie enemies in webs or send them flying with powerful kicks, and with several optional suits to wear, you can do it looking like classic comic book Spider-Man or some terrifying Iron Man crossover.
Read our full Marvel’s Spider-Man review Watch Dogs: Legion Image used with permission by copyright holder The first Watch Dogs was set in a dark, rainy, and depressing version of Chicago with an equally dark and depressing protagonist. For the sequel, Ubisoft doubled down on humor and lightheartedness as it moved to San Francisco, and its story of hacktivists fighting against a Google-like technology company is much more interesting than a simple revenge story. The latest entry moves the action across the pond to the fully realized city of London, only a few years ahead of us.
The game still has all the hacking, sneaking, driving, and shooting you know from previous Watch Dogs games but adds in the ability to recruit and play as essentially anyone you come across in the city. Each person has their own skills to make tackling missions easier, so scouring the map for useful recruits becomes just as addicting as all the other collectibles scattered around the game world.
Read our full Watch Dogs Legion review Nier: Automata Image used with permission by copyright holder Many open-world games throw a billion objectives onto a map and hope you’ll want to mindlessly complete them, but Nier: Automata uses much of its space for pure observation. As you explore its desolate, strangely peaceful post-apocalyptic world, you’re left to wonder if Earth is actually better off with humans gone, and the machines you encounter are often non-threatening until you actively engage them. It presents a moral dilemma before the game even dives into existential territory later on, and it helps to create one of the most fully-realized visions in a game or any other medium.
Read our full Nier: Automata review Sleeping Dogs Image used with permission by copyright holder A classic Hong Kong crime tale of deceit and undercover investigation, Sleeping Dogs is far more than a police-themed Grand Theft Auto game. Sleeping Dogs features a slew of culturally authentic pursuits like betting on cockfights and martial arts. Makers really went all out on the composition of the martial arts combat system, outdoing all competition within the third-person shooter realm.
Academy Award-winning actress Emma Stone joins a wildly talented cast to solidify Sleeping Dogs as a crime game that everyone should experience.
Read our full Sleeping Dogs review Infamous: Second Son Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s easy for gamers to overlook Infamous: Second Son, since it came out during Playstation 4’s first few years. But this visually stunning Sucker Punch game features incredible superhero gameplay that deserves more attention.
The game lives up to superhero standards and gives you different powers such as smoke throwing, fire-spitting, and flying. These powers change in response to shifts in your environment. You get to choose your storyline, much like other Infamous games. Protagonists range from a local protagonist who sticks to traditional morality to a cutthroat villain walking the path of self-service.
Read our full Infamous: Second Son review Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The PS5 games with the best graphics The best iPhone games in 2023: 31 games you need to play right now The best PC games for 2023 The best Bethesda games of all time Buying Guides Buying Guides Computing You don't need to build your own computer to get the best gaming PC. While that still provides the best value, brands like Lenovo, Alienware, Acer, and Origin have gotten fiercely competitive in the past few years, and these companies are producing some of the best gaming desktops you can buy.
Our top pick is Lenovo's Legion Tower 7i Gen 8. It comes with the latest CPU and GPU options from Intel and Nvidia, and it's reasonably priced, especially considering its excellent thermal management. Plus, we have over half a dozen other picks for different budgets and gaming needs that we identified through our extensive collection of desktop reviews.
Gaming After an uneven console cycle with the Xbox One, Microsoft's latest consoles are aimed at getting the ship back on course. The Xbox Series X is a next-generation powerhouse that rivals gaming PCs, while the Xbox Series S is an affordable stopgap for those who are curious about trying new games.
There's no shortage of games to play on either console thanks to Xbox Game Pass, which gives players immediate access to a library of titles old and new. That built-in catalog is an extra value on top of all the new games available on the system that take advantage of its impressive technical specs. When it comes to first-party exclusives, the Series X is still growing. Halo Infinite and Forza Horizon 5 gave a good boost to the console's library following a somewhat sparse first year. More games are also on the way. Microsoft's Bethesda acquisition will bring exclusives like Starfield and the potential addition of all Activision Blizzard games would further bolster that list, but the console's real strength lies in third-party support.
Gaming The Meta Quest is what prospective virtual reality fans likely envisioned when the technology was in its infancy -- an all-in-one device that can be used on its own nearly anywhere, complete with hand-tracking and touch controllers. Though it lacks the raw power of its rivals, the Meta Rift and HTC’s Vive headsets, the Quest more than makes up for it with its convenience. It’s also capable of playing some of the best VR games on the market. Here are some of the best VR experiences the Meta Quest currently has to offer.
Rhythm and fitness Beat Saber Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
