Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Guides The best Starfield mods By Jesse Lennox Close Bethesda games have always been a modder’s paradise. Part of the reason people have played their older games like Skyrim and Fallout 4 for years after release is the amazing mod support that continues to breathe life into these already massive RPGs.
Starfield is the studio’s largest and most ambitious game yet, and even before launched was touted as being built with modders in mind. New and creative mods are being made all the time, so keeping up with the rapidly evolving mods is a challenge. We’ve gone through the top mods currently available to give you a great place to start.
Starfield Upscaler Achievement Enabler Starfield FOV Cleanfield BetterHUD Compact Inventory UI Less Spongy Enemies DualSense – PS5 Icons Real Life Starfield Experience Reshade by Scottyus1 As more mods are created, we will update this list with the most exciting and useful ones available.
Starfield Upscaler Bethesda Softworks.
By default, Starfield uses the FSR2 upscaler, which is specific to the AMD brand of graphics card.
 That’s fine for those who have that card, but anyone using a different brand will not be able to take advantage of that technology. Generally speaking, DLSS is the preferred upscaler since it can work on more card types. The Starfield Upscaler mod replaces the FSR2 option and adds in DLSS and XeSS to allow players on RTX or other cards and GPUs to get better performance out of the game.
Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The PS5 games with the best graphics The best city-building games on PC Achievement Enabler Bethesda Game Studios One major downside to using cheats via the console command menu or mods is that you are locked out from earning any achievements while using them, regardless of whether or not they give you any advantages. If you plan on running some quality-of-life, or purely cosmetic mods, using the Achievement Enabler mod first will let you alter the game as you see fit without removing the ability to unlock those sweet achievements as you play. Just make sure you download and enable this mod before you start adding other mods or using cheats so your file isn’t already marked as being blocked from achievements.
Starfield FOV Bethesda Softworks Being able to adjust your field of vision, or FOV, is more of an accessibility option than anything else. Many people suffer from dizziness or nausea when playing certain games with low FOV, which makes the lack of any options to change it in Starfield quite disappointing.
Starfield FOV does exactly what it says on the tin – lets you change the FOV! You’re able to go from the default FOV up to 120, and it can be set for both first-person and third-person modes.
Cleanfield Bethesda Softworks If you remember the days when you would start a game and be brought straight to the title screen without waiting for all the logos, warnings, and splash screens to pass each and every time you wanted to play, then Cleanfield will be a breath of fresh air. Simply getting to the menu in Starfield can take an annoyingly long time, especially after dozens of viewings, so this mod instantly loads the menu, cuts the seizure warning, Bethesda logo, and message of the day to give you a fast and clean menu to get right back to playing.
BetterHUD Bethesda Softworks In a similar pursuit as the last mod, BetterHUD wants to make your actual gameplay experience as immersive as possible. While the default HUD in Starfield is by no means the most intrusive you will find, it can be a little immersion-breaking for some. This mod shrinks down things like location text and XP pop-ups to not be in the center of your vision, removes enemy health bars, adjusts your crosshair, and more. All combined makes exploration feel that much more real and less like a game.
Compact Inventory UI Bethesda Softworks The screen you will no doubt be seeing most in Starfield , aside from loading screens jumping from planet to planet , will no doubt be your inventory. You’ll be looting, grabbing, and stealing constantly, meaning you will need to manage your inventory every few minutes, which can be a huge chore with how the UI lays things out.
Compact Inventory UI lets you view 12 or 17 items at a time over the default of 9, plus a new sorting option by mass, to make navigating and inventory management a bit more efficient.
Less Spongy Enemies Bethesda Softworks The way Starfield keeps the game challenging as you level up is to scale enemy health as you level. This isn’t all that strange or new, but the way Starfield handles it isn’t tuned quite right in many players’ opinion. The creator of the Less Spongy Enemies mod breaks down how it works in the base game, detailing how the more levels you gain, the worse the problem of enemy health scaling becomes. This mod simply adjusts how much more health enemies will get as you level to be more appropriate and not force you to dump tons of ammo into every grunt you encounter.
DualSense – PS5 Icons Bethesda Softworks As everyone is no doubt aware, Starfield is an Xbox and PC exclusive game. This makes sense due to Bethesda being owned by Microsoft, however, it obviously has some PlayStation fans disappointed. While you can’t play the game on your PS5 , you do have the option to use your DualSense controller on PC to play the game, but the game won’t adjust the button prompts to this controller’s layout. The DualSense – PS5 Icons mod just makes using your favorite controller in Starfield that much easier by replacing the Xbox icons with the PlayStation ones and is a little funny to see at the same time.
Real Life Starfield Experience Reshade by Scottyus1 Bethesda Softworks Visual overhauls will be a massive part of the modding scene, but for right now, the Real Life Starfield Experience Reshade by Scottyus1 looks the best. This mod reshades the game to add much more detail to the textures, lighting, and characters to vastly improve the visuals. It isn’t going to make the game look photorealistic but adds a much-needed level of quality to the somewhat drab planets you will find yourself on from time to time.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy The best skills to unlock in RoboCop: Rogue City The best Switch games for 2023 All upcoming PC games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Apple Computing Gamers who want to be able to play the best PC games should invest in a gaming PC. These machines range from low-priced but capable computers to high-end devices that can handle anything you throw at them, so what you're going to get depends on your budget. There's no shortage of gaming PC deals online, so to help you choose, and to prevent you from getting overwhelmed, we've rounded up our top picks right here. You need to hurry with your purchase though, because these bargains may disappear at any moment.
Lenovo LOQ Tower -- $750, was $1,030 The Lenovo LOQ Tower is a relatively affordable gaming PC that doesn't sacrifice performance, as it's still a very capable machine with its 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. The gaming desktop also ships with Windows 11 Home pre-installed in a 512GB SSD, which offers enough space for multiple AAA titles with all the necessary updates and DLCs.
Computing Sometimes you require more screen real estate, and a conventional 16:9 monitor just doesn't cut it. Whether you're a creative professional in need of an expansive curved display or a gamer seeking the ultimate immersive experience short of VR, there's likely an ultrawide monitor tailored to your needs.
But beware, once you've experienced an ultrawide, you'll be forever spoiled for conventional monitors. Even the crispest, most vivid 16:9 screen will pale in comparison. We've assembled the finest offerings on the ultrawide monitor market and rigorously assessed their suitability for games, movies, and even your workspace.
Gaming Now that Peter and Miles are sharing the spotlight as dual Spider-Men in Marvel's Spider-Man 2, you probably expect each to come with their own skill trees. You wouldn't be wrong for thinking that, but it isn't just two sets of abilities you need to juggle -- it's three. Not only do Peter and Miles each have their own bespoke skill trees to upgrade their specific abilities and powers, such as Miles' Venom abilities and Peter's Symbiote ones, but there is a shared tree that grants both Spider-Men new attacks and moves. This gives you more skills to choose than ever, but not necessarily more skill points to spend on them. Unlike Hero or City Tokens and Tech Parts, you only get new skill points when you level up. Here are the best skills on these new skill webs that you should unlock in Spider-Man 2.
The best shared skills For the most part, all three skill trees are linear. However, unlike the Suit Tech upgrades, the points where there are branches are not mutually exclusive. If you've got the skill points to spend, you can fill out an entire branch without having to pick and choose between abilities.
Web Whip We can't really blame enemies for packing ranged weapons when the alternative would be to duke it out face-to-face with a superhero, but it doesn't make them any less annoying when you have to interrupt your combo to dodge a shot from far off. By hitting triangle and R1, you can snag that pesky gun and throw it back at your attacker to even the playing field.
Bounce Up It isn't super realistic, but you can't deny how fun air combos are in Spider-Man 2. If you want to really juggle your prey for as long as possible, adding the Bounce Up skill lets you slam an enemy down with triangle and bounce them back up into the air to reset your air combo.
KO Recharge Abilities take a long time to come back, but there are a few skills that can speed things up. The best of the bunch is KO Recharge, which restores some of your abilities for every KO, finisher, or stealth takedown you pull off. There are other ability recharging skills you could invest in, but you will always be KOing enemies, so this is the most reliable.
Web Line Double Takedown Speaking of stealth takedowns, the only downside to stealth is that it can be a little tedious webbing up criminals one at a time. This is especially true when multiple goons are hanging out near each other and will notice if you try and snag their buddies. This move only works when you're on a web line, but does let you stealth takedown two enemies at once rather than just one.
The best Peter Parker skills Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
