Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Cuphead is getting a free Xbox and Windows exclusive anniversary update By Giovanni Colantonio Close Cuphead is getting a new free update to celebrate its six-year anniversary. The Xbox Anniversary Update, which is exclusive for those who own the game on Xbox consoles and Windows, includes behind-the-scenes featurettes, the full game soundtrack, and more. It launches on September 29.
Released in 2017, Cuphead was a smash hit for developer StudioMDHR thanks to the game’s unique art style.
 Since then the developer has supported the game with new content including last year’s Delicious Last Course DLC. While the Anniversary update doesn’t bring any new gameplay to the package, it comes loaded with extras.
Studio MDHR The package adds a new Bonus menu to the base game. That includes over 100 hi-res photos, pulling in sketches, unused concept art, and more. It’ll also put the game’s 86-song soundtrack in one place, allowing fans to listen to selections through a music player. That’s rounded out by some behind-the-scenes video featurettes, some 1930s-style menus, and a new MIDI demo track by Kris Maddigan.
Ahead of the announcement, Digital Trends spoke to StudioMDHR studio directors Maja and Chad Moldenhauer over email. The duo provided some insight as to why it decided to put together the package six years after launch, as well as how it selected the included art. The update peels back some of the game’s 1930s set dressing to reveal the more modern processes that helped bring the game to life.
One of the best games of the year is finally coming to Xbox next month A field-of-view slider headlines Starfield’s latest update The best games on Xbox Game Pass for right now (September 2023) Why did you decide to put together this anniversary update six years into the game’s life? Maja Moldenhauer: Great question! One of the great byproducts of a game like Cuphead , where so much of what you see is done with physical materials, is the fact that we end up with tons of stuff in the vault. Original sketches, concept art, process footage of painting or model work, unused music tracks, orchestra session footage, you name it. As we got close to the end of production on The Delicious Last Course , we were thinking a lot about our journey as a team since release and reflecting on the support we had received from our Xbox players since our very earliest teasers. We felt now was the right time to try and show our appreciation to the Xbox community for being in our corner from Day 1! What’s something included in this update that the team is especially excited to show off? Chad Moldenhauer: In true Studio MDHR fashion, we put a lot of thought not just into what we included in this Xbox Anniversary Update, but into how the update itself was presented. A lot of work went into concepting and designing spaces that felt tactile and fun to explore, like you were visiting the real spaces where the work on Cuphead was done. For example, on the Music Player screen, players will notice a gramophone sitting on a table — this is a real 1930s piece of ephemera that we acquired and photographed in detail to include in the scene! Studio MDHR I won’t give away every hidden reference, but we tried to pack the update’s screens with little touches like this to keep the experience feeling immersive and era-appropriate. As far as something for fans to keep an eye out for, we were so excited to include a behind-the-scenes video of our orchestral recording for “Baking the Wondertart”, which is the final boss battle song in The Delicious Last Course — and the musical track that features our largest number of simultaneous band members ever! With so much potential process art to choose from, how did you decide on the selections included here? Chad Moldenhauer: We wanted to strike a nice balance between early versions of work that made it into the final game, and concepts that hit the cutting room floor. For longtime Cuphead fans exploring the art gallery, we want them to have those fun “I recognize this!” moments as they look at early versions of poses, attacks, and character moments from the game, while also including a peek behind the curtain at things that never progressed beyond the concept stage. It was a really fun trip down memory lane for us, and we hope everyone enjoys the art we selected! What do you think the bonus content included here will teach fans about how the game’s art and animation came together? Is there anything particularly illuminating about the team’s process? Maja Moldenhauer: At a high level, we hope that the process videos and art gallery will give people a sense of how much love our whole team has for the work we did on Cuphead ! We’ve talked a lot about the attempt to keep the game’s art and music authentic and era-appropriate, and I feel like these videos really shed light on what that means. With that said, we were also really excited to include some of the “rougher” production work in this update.
Studio MDHR With our process being so painstaking once we put pencil to paper, we often use paint tools during brainstorming sessions to communicate ideas very quickly to one another for the broad strokes of a boss attack or phase transition, for example. A few of these made their way into the photo gallery, and we think they’re a fun break from tradition for the more handcrafted art we usually put out. Another example of this is the unused music track featured as the background music to this new section of the game, which is “sketched out” with MIDI tools by composer Kris Maddigan, and is the only non-orchestral piece of music we’ve ever featured in the game! Cuphead’s Xbox Anniversary Update will be available on September 29 for players who own the base game on Xbox and Windows.
Editors' Recommendations The best Xbox Series X exclusives All upcoming Xbox Series X games: 2023, 2024 and beyond The best Xbox Series X games for 2023 The best RPGs for Xbox Series X Is Starfield on Xbox One? Microsoft Tech News Xbox Gaming Starfield is the highest-profile Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S game since Halo Infinite, but the game isn't locked to those two consoles. Thanks to cloud gaming and Microsoft's more open-ended mentality of making its games available on a wide variety of platforms, you don't have to own one of Microsoft's current-gen systems or have the Xbox app installed on your PC.
No, it's not on PS5 or Nintendo Switch, but if you want to play Starfield while it's at the center of the video game industry zeitgeist, here are some places where it's playable other than the Xbox Series X, Xbox Series X, and Xbox PC app.
Steam The most obvious choice if you want to play Starfield elsewhere is to pick it up on Steam. While Microsoft does have a proprietary PC launcher of its own, Microsoft now consistently releases its own games through Valve's launcher. Bethesda joined Xbox Game Studios in 2021 and has a long history of making its games available on Steam as well, so it's not too surprising that Starfield is available on the platform.
Starfield already proving quite popular on the platform too, having peaked at 266,000 concurrent players, according to SteamDB at the time I'm writing this. If you're looking for a way to play Starfield natively on the hardware you own without using a Microsoft platform or service, this is your best option. It'll run on Steam Deck too, although that's not the only way to experience Starfield on the go.
Xbox Game Pass app on Android Gaming Bethesda Game Studios just released the first update for its sci-fi issue Starfield. It's a smaller hotfix-level patch mainly focused on improving the game's stability and fixing some quest-blocking bugs. A message from the developer also confirmed that a lot of major features that are in the works for future patches, including Nvidia DLSS support on PC.
The list of patch notes for Starfield update version 1.7.29 explains that it made "various stability and performance improvements to reduce crashes and improve frame rate," including one related to installations on Xbox Series X/S. Also, quest-blocking issues in All The Money Can Buy, Into the Unknown, and Shadows of Neon are now all fixed. While that list isn't long, a blog post and tweet from Bethesda explains that it's just the start of "a regular interval of updates that have top community-requested features." Gaming Bethesda Game Studios’ Starfield finally saw wide release on September 6 after years of waiting and speculation. One of the most mysterious elements of Starfield prior to its release was its story, as people wondered how realistic Starfield’s sci-fi universe would skew and if we’d encounter intelligent aliens, time travel, or other odd sci-fi concepts during the adventure.
Starfield is a lengthy game, and its narrative picks up in the back half thanks to some shocking twists, a memorable ending, and an interesting conceit that leads into “New Game Plus”-style replays. If you don’t know whether or not you’ll play enough to make it to the end of your Starfield campaign or just want to know what happens at the end of one of the biggest games of the year, here's a recap of Starfield’s story and ending.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
