Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Forza Horizon 5 review: Buckle up and enjoy the ride By Giovanni Colantonio Close $60.00 Driving is as tight as ever Creative story missions Excellent creative tools Seemingly endless content Truly next-gen look and feel Steep learning curve Formula could use a shake-up Slow photo mode loads Early on in my Forza Horizon 5 adventure, I lose all control. My speedy sports car turns out to be ill-equipped for off-road driving (who would have thought?) and I’m sent skidding off the road. I’m helplessly spinning around in circles as cacti go flying in every direction. What do you expect from someone who’s never had a driver’s license? How I learned to drive Adventure through Mexico Technical spectacle Our take I expect the game to admonish me or for some NPC to throw a little snark at me over the radio for my poor skills. Instead, the on-screen combo meter goes wild. Superb skidding! Perfect 360! Destruction bonus! Soon, I’ve racked up tens of thousands in experience, giving me some skill points I can spend on car perks that will push my accidental combos even further.
Forza Horizon 5 sees no difference between good and bad driving — it treats the simple act of moving a car as a victory and makes sure that drivers are always celebrated for their willingness to get behind the wheel.
All upcoming Xbox Series X games: 2023, 2024 and beyond The best RPGs for Xbox Series X Best Xbox Live Gold deals for January 2023 Forza Horizon 5 doesn’t shift too far from the series’ formula — and it doesn’t need to. Playground Games delivers another robust open-world driving experience that shines in both fine-tuned driving mechanics and next-gen technical spectacle. It’s the definitive racing game of this new console cycle, and it’s already difficult to imagine a competitor sliding into first place anytime soon.
How I learned to drive Forza Horizon 5 drops players right into the action — both figuratively and literally. The game opens with a series of vignettes as different cars drop out of airplanes and zoom through the game’s version of Mexico. It’s an exciting opening sequence that brings the Fast & Furious franchise to mind and sets the stage for a more adventure-centric installment.
For newcomers, it doesn’t offer a lot of direction. A control diagram paints a simple portrait of the game by telling players how to accelerate, steer, and brake, but that’s deceptive. Driving in the Forza Horizon series can actually be quite complicated, making players unlearn an “always accelerate” mentality. They’ll need to strategically lay off the gas, pump the brakes on turns, and carefully utilize the emergency brake. It doesn’t really tell players any of that, instead using a GPS-style line on the screen that indicates when players should slow down. It never outright explains that, though, nor does it include a glossary of terms for those who have no idea how stats like torque affect their digital cars.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The learning curve can be steep (the game quickly recommended I drop down to the easiest difficulty, and it took around 10 hours before it told me I was ready to raise it back up), but the driving feels ironclad, even in failure. Despite requiring so few actual inputs, a lot of active work goes into controlling a car. By one of the game’s ultimate races — a nearly 30-minute gauntlet around curvy dirt roads — I was carefully, but constantly pressing and releasing triggers to manage my speed and keep my car stable. Driving a car in Forza reminds me of walking in Death Stranding : An otherwise simple video game task that’s so nuanced here that it earns my full, undivided attention.
I’m no car guy, but Forza Horizon 5 makes me feel like one.
What’s nice about Forza is that it really doesn’t care if you fail. There’s no consequence for coming in dead last during most races. Players still get necessary experience no matter what they do. The game just wants players to enjoy driving without pressure. You can see that philosophy in action in the game’s rewind function, which lets players turn back time at any point and reset their position with no consequence. Completely beef it on a turn? Just try it again as many times as you need to so you can learn exactly how to solve the problem. It’s a low-stakes approach that encourages players to perfect the nuances of driving at their own pace without the threat of punishment.
Those slick driving systems are put to good use by the game’s gargantuan roster of cars. There are over 500 vehicles to collect here, and each feels like its own tamable beast. Vehicle weight, top speed, and a variety of other factors drastically change how cars handle, pushing me to switch up my rotation and lock down a list of options I’m comfortable with. I get a small jolt of satisfaction every time I load up a street race and know to pull my light blue Porsche out of the garage. I’m no car guy, but Forza Horizon 5 makes me feel like one.
Adventure through Mexico For those who have played previous Forza Horizon games, the structure isn’t too different here. A giant map fills up with icons denoting the location of races, collectibles, and stunts. Everything, even just driving around, grants experience and skill points, which can be spent to upgrade every single car’s small skill tree. There’s an absurd wealth of content here, more than I could ever hope to cover in a succinct manner, but much of it is uniform with previous installments in the same way Ubisoft open-world games tend to hit the same beats (there are wheelspins that unlock new cars, houses to purchase, breakable boards that reduce the cost of fast travel, and more).
Image used with permission by copyright holder What does feel different is the game’s story campaign, which better weaves a throughline into the freeform driving gameplay. Every time the player levels up, they’ll unlock a new Horizon Story, which acts as a little story thread. The basic idea is that players control a superstar driver who comes to Mexico to help set up a sort of racing utopia. They start by establishing different outposts around the map, which bring different styles of racing to the world (off-roading, street racing, and more). The story beats that follow are short, sweet little missions that have the most fun with the driving formula.
In one mission, I take a gigantic parade float for a joyride. In another, I’m paying my respects to lucha libre wrestling with a series of demolition derby-esque challenges. Those little vignettes bring life to the Mexican setting and shake up the established structure. I’m more compelled to take part in random races because I want to level up and see where my journey will take me next.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s still room for the series to subvert expectations in future installments. One mission begins by dramatically revealing a jet ski race. For a second, I think it’s going to toss me on a water vehicle in a head-to-head race against a Ferrari. Instead, it’s a standard race where I can see some jet-skiers zipping around on the side of the road. It’s still an exciting race, but one that makes me wonder what Forza Horizon would look like if it stretched out of its comfort zone more often. I’ve tried to put it out of my mind, but I can’t help but think of Riders Republic.
 It’s a racing game that almost shamelessly borrows Forza’s formula, but finds several imaginative ways for players to explore its world. Forza built a gold standard framework and now it wouldn’t hurt for its creators to observe what others are doing base on it and take some inspiration along for its next ride.
I’m more compelled to take part in random races because I want to level up and see where my journey will take me next.
The real innovation is going to come from the series’ dedicated community.
Forza Horizon 5 features a robust creation tool called EventLab that lets anyone make their own races. It’s an intuitive tool that lets players turn any stretch of the world into a racetrack by simply driving around and dropping checkpoints. Within 10 minutes, I was able to make a round three-lap track that takes players down a highway, through the desert, and off a few ramps — all during a tropical storm. If I was able to make something I was proud of with minimal tinkering, I can’t even begin to imagine what others will do with it during the game’s multiyear life span.
On top of all that, there’s a massive suite of multiplayer modes, live service events, and the promise of inevitable content drops down the line. The game feels bottomless in a way that many games strive for but rarely achieve. If this ended up being the only Forza Horizon game released on the Xbox Series X , I don’t think fans would be disappointed. They’ll have their hands full.
Technical spectacle Forza is as much a tech showcase as it is a racing game. Considering that this is the first game in the series to grace the Xbox Series X, the expectations were high — and it does not disappoint.
Forza Horizon 5 takes full advantage of next-gen tech to make cars look photorealistic. Had this launched alongside the Xbox Series X , I’m convinced the current conversation around which new console is the more must-own commodity would lean in Microsoft’s favor.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The spectacle is on full display in the game’s Mexican landscapes, which are a joy to simply drive through with no objective in mind. What’s really incredible is that you’ll never hit a loading zone when driving around. In one race, I zoomed around the entire outer perimeter of the map — a 20-minute journey — without a millisecond of downtime. Even fast traveling across the map happens in a snap, which just seems mind-blowing considering the scale of the world and the level of detail in it.
It’s a big, beautiful game that never feels like it’s at risk of collapsing under its scope.
The only spot where the game slows down is in its photo mode. Taking a picture is a weirdly long process. Loading in and out of photo mode can take a few seconds, but the real pain point comes after actually snapping a shot. Photo-processing times are up to 30 seconds, which feels unusually long in the moment. I wanted to take tons of pictures considering how gorgeous the world and my car looked, but even the quickest snapshot takes a good minute of time.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Other than that, I can’t help but marvel at just about every aspect of Forza Horizon 5.
 It’s a big, beautiful game that never feels like it’s at risk of collapsing under its scope. It never crashed on me while playing, I hardly experienced any bugs, and my brief time with the online modes was stable. With a game this smooth, the gap between what’s on screen and the tech running it becomes negligible. I get lost in the world and really do feel like I’m behind the wheel of a car. I even catch my body tilting as I turn, like a child playing Mario Kart.
That’s an apt comparison, because I really do feel like a kid again as I zoom around Mexico. I’m transported back to a time where every game felt like a magic trick. It’s harder to see any sleight of hand when you’re simply wowed by the act itself.
Forza Horizon 5 is the flashiest, most spectacular Las Vegas act imaginable. I can see through the illusion if I dissect the formula long enough, but sometimes it’s more fun to shut up and enjoy the ride.
Our take The Forza Horizon series has always long been a gold standard for the racing genre, andForza Horizon 5 decisively keeps it locked in first place. The racing gameplay is as fine-tuned as ever, creative story missions give it a firmer backbone, and it gets the most possible out of next-gen tech. It doesn’t go out of its way to welcome in new racers, and veterans may feel its formula could use a few more twists, but it’s clear that Playground Games has this series down to a science. Unless someone can radically reinvent what a racing game can be, expect this game to stay miles ahead of the competition until its sequel.
Is there a better alternative? Riders Republic borrows the same structure, but gets a bit more creative with gameplay. But if you want a full-on racing simulator, Forza Horizon 5 feels unbeatable.
How long will it last? Completing the central story can take 15 to 20 hours, but there’s much more game after that. With over 500 cars, tons of multiplayer modes, and a top-notch creation tool, a dedicated player can noodle on this for years to come.
Should you buy it? Yes.
Forza Horizon 5 is the Xbox Series X’s killer app , right alongside Microsoft Flight Simulator.
 If you don’t usually love racing games, this might sell you on the premise.
Editors' Recommendations The best Xbox Series X exclusives The best Xbox Series X games for 2023 Best Xbox Game Pass deals: Upgrade to Game Pass Ultimate for cheap Starfield’s ending explained: What are Starborn and The Unity? Best gaming console deals: cheapest prices on PS5, Xbox S and X and Switch Game Reviews Microsoft Product Reviews Xbox Gaming The Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S are much more readily in stock than they were back in November 2020 when they first launched. That also means there are more deals around so you can save big on your new console purchase. Much like PlayStation deals, it's worth shopping around to see how you could save on your precious gaming investment. That's why we've picked out some of the best Xbox Series X and Series S deals below. The deals include discounts on consoles as well as essential accessories. Take a look below to see how you could save.
Xbox Core Wireless Controller -- $57, was $65 Whichever Xbox you buy, you get a standard controller but how about having one that shows off some of your personality? Or one that means you can play games on the couch with your buddies or family. That's where the Xbox Core Wireless Controller is so useful. Available in many different colors, you get all the benefits of an ergonomic design with sculpted surfaces and refined geometry for enhanced comfort. Up to 40 hours of battery life is convenient while it connects via Xbox Wireless and Bluetooth so you can use it with your PC, phone or tablet too.
Gaming Cross-platform support is becoming more important in the world of video games. Multiplayer hits like Call of Duty: Warzone 2.0 and Fortnite have pushed crossplay into the limelight, and now most AAA multiplayer games release with at least partial cross-platform support. Finding every cross-platform game is no easy feat, though, so we did the hard work to bring you a comprehensive list of games that support crossplay.
Unfortunately, there aren't any rules when it comes to crossplay, so each game handles the feature a little differently. To make matters more confusing, certain backward-compatible games on the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X still support crossplay on the most recent hardware, even if there isn't an official release for that hardware.
Gaming After years in early access only on PC, Baldur's Gate 3 is finally here in its final state. This CRPG has the internet buzzing about just how long and varied the experience can be. What's even better is that it can be played in co-op, though with limited cross-platform features. Those looking at the game may notice that there is only ever mention of a PC and PlayStation 5 version, which obviously raises the question about Xbox consoles. Baldur's Gate 3 doesn't have any exclusivity deal with PlayStation, so why isn't it on Xbox, and will it ever be? Will Baldur's Gate 3 come to Xbox? https://twitter.com/Cromwelp/status/1685821620756021249?s=20 The latest update from Larian states that it will be able to release Baldur's Gate 3 on Series X and S sometime before the end of 2023, but with the S version not having split-screen coop.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
