Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Senua’s Saga: Hellblade 2: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more By Jesse Lennox Close Given how impressive Hellblade: Senua’s Sacrifice was, it seemed inevitable that there would be a sequel. The game, despite being made independently by Ninja Theory, blew even the highest-budget games on the market out of the water in terms of graphical fidelity and storytelling. Microsoft must have realized this potential as well and outright purchased the studio to not only provide a bigger budget to the team for the eventual sequel, but also tosecure it as a console exclusive for its then-unreleased Xbox Series X and S systems.
Release date Platforms Trailers Gameplay Preorder Senua’s Saga: Hellblade 2 was one of the earliest games shown off for the Xbox Series X and S , and was even initially thought to be one of the system’s launch titles. That didn’t come to pass, but the team has taken that extra time to craft this sequel into something that looks to be even more impressive than the original. Between the first Game Awards event where the game was announced and the latest footage we’ve seen, we have a very solid understanding of the important details surrounding this sequel. We have all the information you need to know about Senua’s Saga: Hellblade 2.
Release date Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s been years now since Senua’s Saga: Hellblade 2 was first shown off at the 2019 Game Awards, with the latest appearance being at the same event at the end of 2021. The game, although never given a firm release date, does look like it’s been pushed back a few times already. Based on how far along the latest footage we saw was, it is possible this could be a title arriving in the fall or winter of 2023, or it could slip into early 2024. For now, we can only speculate.
Platforms Image used with permission by copyright holder We know that Ninja Theory was purchased by Microsoft after the first Hellblade was released, which was, funnily enough, a timed PlayStation exclusive, so the sequel will now come exclusively to Xbox consoles, specifically the Xbox Series X and S, as well as PC.
Trailers It wasn’t until the 2021 Game Awards that we got our first good, extended look at Senua’s Saga: Hellblade 2 , while the first trailer we got was more of a tone piece. In that initial reveal, we simply saw landscapes as Senua let out a guttural and off-putting chant and made distorted facial expressions while the imagery became more and more disturbing.
The newest gameplay reveal gives a much more cohesive look at what the game will actually be. After a bit of narration declaring war on the Gods, we come to Senua leading a band of warriors into a cave. As she gives orders to the others, we hear the familiar whispering voices in Senua’s head pulling her in different directions and asking questions. She jogs in with the group, flaming torches and spears in hand, though Senua herself appears unarmed.
In the mist, something massive lurks and groans. She pushes on, voices warning that “death is coming”, and inspects skeletal remains littering the cave. A giant crawls, appearing weak or tired, ahead. She tells her men to hold back until the giant rests against the stone wall. She takes a flaming spear from one man as another throws a container of black liquid, presumably oil, onto the giant. When the spear hits, it erupts into flame.
The giant groans as more spears fly, falling to the floor and kicking up a wall of dust. Senua, now alone, calls for her allies, but is answered by one running from the dust engulfed in flames. A second appears, but is splattered by the giant’s hand. She calls the giant’s attention to herself. It begins to reach for her, and Senua retreats, with more men behind her readying and tossing spears.
They pelt and attack the giant all the way back out of the cave and onto the beach, but still it pursues Senua, who realizes that it is she that the giant is after. Eventually making it back behind a barricade, Senua screams to attack, but the giant swipes the defenses away. The giant reaches out and appears to ask for Senua’s help, who then utters, “I know you.” Ninja Theory has been fairly tight-lipped about what the overall story of Senua’s Saga: Hellblade 2 will be, only that it aims to expand on the first game and continue to incorporate and shed light on mental health issues. It did confirm in the Xbox Games Showcase in 2021 that the game would take place in 9th-century Iceland and bring players across many miles of immaculate landscapes, which falls in line with the first ga,e focusing heavily on Celtic culture and Senua’s home being Orkney in Scotland.
While not a trailer, Ninja Theory did put out a tweet showcasing the incredibly detailed and realistic face model for Senua in Unreal Engine as she delivers a chilling monologue.
We&#39;re pushing the boundaries of realtime facial animation in Senua&#39;s Saga: Hellblade II, as showcased at #GDC23 with @UnrealEngine.
pic.twitter.com/NOLvRpuC5t &mdash; Ninja Theory (@NinjaTheory) March 22, 2023 Gameplay Image used with permission by copyright holder The first Hellblade game had essentially two modes of gameplay: Exploration and puzzle-solving, and combat. Neither element was especially deep or challenging, especially the combat, due to the small budget and team, however, the game still shone thanks to incredibly impressive visuals, audio design in depicting Senua’s psychosis, and treatment of issues relating to mental health. Based on what we’ve seen, it looks like all of those positive notes from the first game will be back, and better than ever, plus a more in-depth combat system.
For one, assuming the trailer did show actual gameplay, then this will be the first time Senua has fought alongside other warriors. The trailer shows her coordinating with what looks like over a dozen other people to try and take down the giant, giving orders, coordinating attacks, and even acquiring weapons from them. To what level this will actually be realized in the full game or if this was more of a set-piece moment, remains to be seen. Still, it does at least suggest that larger-scale combat is possible, as well as more weapon options for Senua to take advantage of.
Preorder Ninja Theory has been especially cagey in terms of giving a release date for Senua’s Saga: Hellblade 2.
 Even years after it was announced, we don’t even know what year we should exxpect to get our hands on it, so preorders are probably the last thing on the team’s minds. However, for anyone who doesn’t need or want a physical copy, you can essentially preorder Hellblade 2: Senua’s Saga by simply becoming a Game Pass subscriber. As with all Xbox first-party games, this game will be available for download via that subscription service the day it releases, whenever that may be.
Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more GTA 6: release date speculation, trailer, news, rumors, and more RoboCop: Rogue City: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Dishonored 3: release date window, rumors, and more Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Microsoft Xbox Gaming Spider-Man is one of the most recognizable superheroes in the world. His popularity in media is hard to overstate, as he is the focus of ongoing films, comics, multiple animated series, and, of course, video games. The web-slinger has been on home consoles ever since the Atari days, and each new generation has given us better and better games. The most recent game, Marvel's Spider-Man, which paired the comic book hero with the perfect developer (Insomniac Games) to handle this acrobatic, sarcastic neighborhood hero, was a smash-hit in every respect. Critics praised it, fans loved it, and it sold like crazy. Plus, it probably was a major contributing factor in Sony's outright purchase of the studio. Naturally, we all knew a sequel had to be coming.
When the PlayStation 5 launched, we got a standalone expansion of sorts in Spider-Man: Miles Morales, which let us play as the new spider on the block in his own story. Now the focus has been set on the proper, full sequel, which looks to take everything from the original game and the expansion and combine it all into a truly amazing new Spider-Man (Spider-Men?) title. We've only had a handful of looks at the game, but we've used our spider senses to untangle all the information there is about Marvel's Spider-Man 2.
Release date Gaming The Elder Scrolls 6 was first revealed five years ago with a 36-second announcement trailer. Unfortunately, there hasn't been a lot of concrete news on the title since.
Now that Bethesda has launched Starfield — the developer's first brand-new IP in 25 years — with great success despite plenty of criticism on the game's advertised scale versus its gameplay, it goes without saying that the studio will be shifting to the next installment in the Elder Scrolls series. The new title will be building off the wild success of its predecessor Skyrim (which made the cut for Digital Trends' top 50 video games of all time) and MMO The Elder Scrolls Online.
Gaming Some fans never thought it would happen, but the seemingly impossible has been achieved. Super Mario RPG, a remake of the Squaresoft-developed Super Mario RPG: The Legend of the Seven Stars, has been officially announced. Many people will be more familiar with Mario's two main RPG series, the Paper Mario and Mario and Luigi games, but it was this collaboration that was the plumber's first foray into the RPG genre. Since Nintendo didn't own the IP, it wasn't able to continue the series itself, leading to those other series that took many elements from Super Mario RPG. This classic holds a special place in many gamers' hearts, as it served as the introduction to RPGs for many gamers and includes a cast of unique characters we haven't seen since. Get ready to hit those action-commands and ensure your Flower Points are full as we go through everything we know about Super Mario RPG.
Release date Super Mario RPG is set to arrive on November 11, 2023.
Platforms Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
