Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Psychonauts 2 review: Empathy and creativity go hand in hand By Giovanni Colantonio Close $60.00 Excellent level design Creative visuals Narratively motivated platforming Fun ability tweaking Bloated story Complicated ability juggling Playing Psychonauts 2 feels a lot like rediscovering a long lost memory. For those who grew up in the era of mascot-driven 3D platformers, it’s a familiar return to a time when games were all about collecting hundreds of items and Nickelodeon was king. It’s a bit of emotional time travel for those looking to reconnect with their childhood.
History session Inside the mind Brain fight Our take There’s a good reason that it feels so nostalgic: Psychonauts 2 has been in the works for a long time. The team at Double Fine began kicking sequel ideas around during the development of the first Psychonauts game, which launched way back in 2005. Several publishers reportedly turned the idea down over the years, eventally leading Double Fine to set up a successful crowdfunding campaign in 2015 to bring it to life. While games have evolved quite a bit since the PlayStation 2 era, fans just weren’t ready to let go of the past. That can be unhealthy behavior in some contexts, but it’s a positive one here.
Spider-Man 2 Just Let Go trophy guide: Where to find the science trophy How to solve molecular identification puzzles in Spider-Man 2 All photo-op locations in Spider-Man 2 Psychonauts 2 deftly comments on mental health topics through an inventive platformer that’s always sincere and empathetic. It can feel bloated from 16 years of creative brainstorming, but it’s hard not to be charmed by a game that acts as a cheerleader for players of all ages.
Related Guides Psychonauts 2 beginner’s guide Best badges in Psychonauts 2 How long does it take to beat Psychonauts 2? History session Like its predecessor, Psychonauts 2 stars Raz, a 10-year-old circus performer-turned-psychic who can jump into anyone’s mind. The sequel picks up right where Psychonauts (and VR spinoff Rhombus of Ruin ) left off, opening with a thorough “previously on” segment that runs through every plot beat one may have forgotten since 2005.
It’s a helpful way to kick the adventure off, because there’s a lot to keep track of in Psychonauts 2.
 Raz is now an intern for a prestigious group of psychic agents — the titular Psychonauts — and he must help suss out a mole in the organization who aims to resurrect the murderous psychic Maligula. That spy movie setup is a perfect fit for the series, taking players through mind-bending levels where unreliable narrators twist the truth. It’s a kid-friendly Inception.
It’s a little funny that we get such a sweeping tale here, because Psychonauts 2 really excels when it’s telling smaller, intimate stories.
There’s a lot more happening, including a lore-filled deep dive into the political inner workings of Grulovia, a fictional country in the game. We learn a whole bunch about Raz’s family in an interlude that halts the main story’s momentum for a few hours. There’s also a whole ensemble of young interns who simply disappear for the majority of the game and reintegrate into the narrative as if they’ve been there all along.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Considering how long Double Fine has been kicking around ideas for the game, there’s a sense that perhaps too many went into the final project. It feels like three games worth of story crammed into one, because who knows how long it’ll be until part three? It’s a little funny that we get such a sweeping tale here, because Psychonauts 2 really excels when it’s telling smaller, intimate stories. Every time Raz pops into someone’s head, we get a little self-contained arc that carries emotional depth. One level features a moving love story where Raz has to help a character overcome the mental blocks holding them back in their relationship (all visualized by Raz finding seeds to help a farmer regrow a shriveled-up garden). Those are the tales that ultimately help the game complete its true mission: To help us better understand each other’s struggles and encourage us to grow, no matter how hopeless we feel.
Inside the mind Those little stories come to life thanks to inventive level design that visualizes abstract concepts in creative ways. In an early sequence, Raz tries to convince his teacher Hollis to let him go on more dangerous missions by rewiring her brain. The level begins in a hospital setting, representing both Hollis’ past as a doctor and her fear of endangering her students. When Raz rewrites her thoughts, the level turns into a casino, as Hollis is suddenly willing to take high risks. A platforming section previously centered around X-rays suddenly changes as Raz is hopping on top of playing cards instead.
Nothing in Psychonauts 2 feels like busy work or content for the sake of content; everything is narratively motivated.
Each level is loaded with these types of ideas, which narratively justify each new platforming mechanic. One section sends Raz into the mind of a germaphobe who runs a bowling alley. As a result, players need to ride around on giant bowling balls, gliding over piles of green goop, and use ball polishers to activate new paths (or lanes, as it were). Another section turns performance anxiety into a cooking game show where Raz needs to chop up sentient foods and drop them on a serving dish for loudmouth judges. Even when a level doesn’t entirely nail what it’s doing, it’s always surprising and fun to see how each mind palace is constructed.
The platforming is standard for the genre, which makes all the creative visual design that much more key. Raz can grind rails, bounce on ropes, swing from branch to branch, and so on. Different PSI Powers add some extra mechanics to the mix, letting Raz freeze time or burn wooden objects, but the experience is largely unchanged from 2005. Instead, Double Fine doubles down on building more elaborate playgrounds for Raz to weave through. It’s a series of therapeutic amusement park rides (literally, in one case).
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nothing in Psychonauts 2 feels like busy work or content for the sake of content; everything is narratively motivated. Even collectibles serve a greater purpose. Like the first game, figments indicate where to go next in lieu of objective markers. Vaults can be cracked open to get a little slideshow about a character’s backstory. And, of course, players can once again track down pieces of emotional baggage, which remains the series’ best sight gag.
The game doesn’t reinvent the genre, because it doesn’t need to. It recognizes that those ideas can help tell a meaningful story, even if the collect-a-thon platformer is currently out of fashion. Just as Psychonauts 2 tells players that anyone can grow, it believes that video games can always reach new heights without abandoning their history.
Brain fight The combat side o f Psychonauts 2 has its own clever twists. Every enemy is some manifestation of a mental ailment. Panic attacks, for example, appear as erratic monsters that need to be slowed down to better handle them. It’s always fun to see a new condition pop up and how it’s been translated into a physical creature.
Raz can perform basic punches and evasion rolls, both of which feel a little too ineffective, but PSI Powers are what make battles more interesting. Players gain different powers through the game, which have a function both in and out of combat. Mental connections let players zip up to little thought nodes, but they can also tether to an enemy and pull them in. In many battles, I found myself taking full advantage of my toolkit rather than sticking with one basic attack loop.
Psychonauts 2 may not be perfect, but it’s always looking out for its players. Empathy isn’t just a narrative theme; it’s at the heart of the game’s design.
The abilities evolve throughout the game, which continually adds new utility to each one. Every time Raz ranks up by collecting various items, he’ll get a skill point that can unlock a handful of upgrades on each power. Players can also buy and equip pins, which augment abilities further. There’s a surprising amount of potential to each tool, giving players a good reason to engage with the “collect and rank up” loop.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Switching between powers can be a pain, though. Abilities are mapped to a controller’s triggers and bumpers, so four can be active at a time. They can be swapped and remapped on the fly via an ability wheel, but it can be tough to navigate midbattle. I’d often find that a swap didn’t take, forcing me back into the menu to try again. Ability juggling can be a little confusing as a whole, and I found myself wishing that a few powers, like a levitation ball that’s essential to navigation, would just remain permanently mapped to one button.
Those who find these battles frustrating can enable “narrative combat” and dial down enemy health. That kind of considerate design is apparent in the very first moments of the game, when a splash screen, complete with links to helpful resources, encourages players who might have a tough time with the game’s mental health themes to take a break.
Psychonauts 2 may not be perfect, but it’s always looking out for its players.
 Empathy isn’t just a narrative theme; it’s at the heart of the game’s design.
Our take Psychonauts 2 is a sweet platformer that just wants the best for its characters and players alike. By visualizing mental health issues through creative level design, Double Fine is able to tell a series of clever stories where gameplay and narrative go hand in hand. It has a few personal flaws in its fiddly combat and overeager story, but if Psychonauts 2 teaches us anything, it’s that we’re not defined by our problems.
Is there a better alternative? It Takes Two has a similar approach to narrative-gameplay fusion, with tighter gameplay.
Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart features better combat to pair with its platforming spectacle.
How long will it last? Depending on how much you collect, it’ll take around 10 to 15 hours. Plenty of time can be spent grabbing every collectible and reaching max rank after the credits roll.
Should you buy it? Yes.
Psychonauts 2 is a friendly platformer for players of all ages and those who are familiar with the series. It’s also available on Xbox Game Pass, which is a big plus.
Psychonauts 2 was reviewed using an Xbox Series X code provided by Microsoft.
Editors' Recommendations All nursery rhyme solutions in Alan Wake 2 Where to find Aunt May’s grave in Spider-Man 2 All Marko’s Memories locations in Spider-Man 2 Alan Wake 2 preload guide: release time, file size, and preorder How to fast travel in Spider-Man 2 Game Reviews Microsoft Product Reviews Xbox Gaming Peter and Miles are all suited up and ready to take on Kraven, Venom, and any other villains that threaten the new and improved New York when Spider-Man 2 arrives on October 20. This PS5 exclusive is shaping up to be one of the fall's biggest titles, which is saying something considering the competition. Still, everyone is waiting to finally feel that sensation of swinging through the buildings once again, and the wait is finally almost over. Even though the game will let you fast travel and switch between characters instantly, downloading the game itself is another story. We'll help you swing right into the game by sharing all the preload information you need on Spider-Man 2.
Spider-Man 2 release time There's no concrete time for when Spider-Man 2 will unlock as of yet, but it could possibly be 12 a.m. PT or ET on October 20. Once Insomniac or Sony clarifies the specific launch time for the game, we will update this article.
Spider-Man 2 file size Spider-Man 2 will take up a good chunk of your storage space at 98BG in size. If you need to make some room, do so now.
Spider-Man 2 preload options Gaming Microsoft revealed the next batch of games coming to its Xbox Game Pass subscription service this October. While no Activision Blizzard games are coming to the service just yet following that acquisition, one of 2023's best-reviewed games is: this year's Dead Space remake.
Dead Space came out in January and is a stunning remake of a 2008 horror classic. The game follows an engineer named Issac Clarke as he searches for his girlfriend Nicole on a gigantic spaceship called the USG Ishimura. It's overrun by disgusting creatures called Necromorphs, though, leading to plenty of horrific situations as Issacs looks for answers on the ship. The original was an atmospheric and tense horror game, and developer EA Motive only enhanced all of that with this remake that updates the game's visuals and makes some other tweaks to bring the experience more in line with future games in its series and other modern horror games.
It's a great choice if you're looking for a new horror game to play this month, so we recommend checking it out when it hits Xbox Game Pass on October 26. It's not the only game coming to the service during the back half of this month, though. Here's the full list of games coming to Xbox Game Pass throughout the rest of October.
Gaming After the Sim City franchise faded away, gamers were left with few options when it came to city-building simulations. That changed when Cities: Skylines came out. The first game was a smash hit, filling the void left by the pioneer of the genre - and in many ways even surpassing it. However, that game came out in 2015, and even the numerous updates and DLC packs added to the game could only extend its life so long. Now, Cities: Skylines 2 has been officially revealed and fans have already built up their hopes as high as skyscrapers. Have the developers designed the perfect system for this sequel to thrive and grow? Let's take a bird's-eye view and see what groundwork has been laid for Cities: Skylines 2.
Release date Cities: Skylines 2 will be fully constructed and ready to play on October 24, 2023 for PC, however, the console versions of the game have been delayed to sometime in spring 2024.
Platforms Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
