Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Starfield review: Xbox’s ambitious outer space RPG is big, beautiful, and empty By Giovanni Colantonio Close $70.00 Strong sidequests Impactful choices Impressive scope Beautiful space landscapes Great ship and outpost customization Flat main story and characters Dull exploration Disappointing flight Stability issues For the wide-eyed members of Constellation, nothing is out of reach.
Video review Humanity, expanded RPG chops A universe of potential The Bethesda experience The exploration group at the heart of Starfield , Bethesda’s massive sci-fi RPG , seeks to answer the universe’s greatest mysteries, no matter how unknowable they may seem. It’s a romantic goal — one that’s inherently unfulfilling. In a constantly expanding universe, there’s no end to what we can discover. There’s always another planet to explore, an element to unearth, profound questions to be answered.
One of the best games of the year is finally coming to Xbox next month A field-of-view slider headlines Starfield’s latest update Cuphead is getting a free Xbox and Windows exclusive anniversary update In some way, Constellation is the perfect stand-in for Bethesda Game Studios, the ambitious developer behind Starfield.
 The studio has always dreamed big, creating massive titles like The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim that push the limits of what’s possible in video games.
Starfield takes that philosophy to a more awe-inspiring scale, looking to capture the boundless wonders of our universe in an artistic medium that’s often defined by its technical limitations. It’s a sublime feat, but one that finds Bethesda facing the same bittersweet truth that Constellation’s intrepid explorers grapple with: those who seek the farthest stars will forever float in space.
Starfield isn’t the generation-defining video game that overeager fans might be expecting; it’s a fairly typical, though impressively constructed Bethesda RPG where depth and stability often come at the expense of scope. The surprisingly limited base adventure isn’t so much the draw here, though. The enormous intergalactic playground feels custom-made for modders who want to explore the infinite possibilities of space just as much as Constellation and Bethesda itself.
Video review Humanity, expanded Starfield begins with a sci-fi mystery: A simple mining operation turns into something much bigger when the player character discovers a mysterious metal artifact. After getting a bewildering vision of the universe, they take the object to Constellation, an explorer group that’s intent on learning what it all means. That inciting incident kicks off a surprisingly unimaginative main quest, as players travel the universe in search of metallic doohickeys. Even with some extra outer space intrigue, the core campaign rarely rises above a ponderous meditation on vague sci-fi concepts it can’t possibly hope to say anything profound about.
Starfield is a celebration of human beings and all their complicated problems … It doesn’t help that I’m joined by a crew of boilerplate RPG companions that I struggle to connect with. Constellation members, like the always peppy Barrett or the aloof Andreja, feel like stock archetypes created to recite different philosophies on life, the universe, and everything else. These characters could have brought intimacy back into a heady outer space story, but there’s a notable lack of humanity in my more personal conversations with companions.
Though its main questline is lacking, Starfield makes up for that in its wider worldbuilding and side content. During my playthrough, I’d become engrossed in a storyline that had me working for Ryujin Industries, the universe’s most dominant megacorporation. Rather than exploring alien worlds or getting into shootouts with ruthless Spacers, I spent hours completing petty acts of retribution against rival companies. I stole business secrets and sabotaged presentations in a corporate warfare story that almost reads like a satirical jab at Bethesda’s parent company , Microsoft.
Bethesda Human drama like that drives home Starfield ’s strongest observation. Humanity is given an incredible gift as it’s able to rebuild itself among the stars. Rather than using that infinite potential for good, some humans only manage to expand their flaws on a galactic scale, like a houseplant repotted into a bigger home. It’s a bit of biting cultural commentary, but there’s sincerity in it too.
Starfield is a celebration of human beings and all their complicated problems that’s in genuine awe of how we bring so much color and life to the infinite blackness.
That point is best explored in an easy to miss sidequest nestled deeply in the void of some distant galaxy. During my travels, I accidentally stumble on a ship under the control of a rogue AI.
 At first, I assume I’m in for a fairly generic 2001: A Space Odyssey send-up about an evil machine. Instead, I have a heart-to-heart conversation with the bot, teaching it what being human truly means. Doing so inadvertently gives it anxiety. It melts down in a bittersweet moment, seemingly grateful that I’ve taught it to be a complete mess, just like me.
RPG chops Though its intergalactic setup leaves a lot of room for gameplay creativity, Bethesda sticks to its fundamentals for the most part. Most of my time is spent either chatting with NPCs or looting hundreds of items until I’m encumbered (an always annoying status condition that can result in physical damage here). It’s easy to be disappointed at first considering how wide its world seems. A good chunk of quests all take place in a small handful of hub cities. Some have me fast traveling to some far-off planet so I can press a single button and trek back to the NPC who gave me the task. Only the story’s last few quests offer anything in the way of memorable set pieces.
Those who don’t already dig the format of Bethesda’s games won’t find much new to love here, but the studio’s RPG expertise is on full display. That’s thanks to a powerful character-building system that lets players pick starting traits that have a clear impact on their journey. I built my hero out as a sort of Han Solo type, a street smart sweet-talker who could bargain or argue their way out of any situation. My persuasion-heavy build came in handy when I reached Neon, a dense pleasure city that I just so happened to grow up in. Any Neon-related quest was a snap to complete, as my street knowledge gave me authority with a wealth of characters. My ongoing spacefaring story very much feels like my own.
Bethesda Game Studios When I’m not chatting with NPCs, there’s a good chance I’ve found myself in some kind of gunfight. Like The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt or Cyberpunk 2077 , combat is more of a necessity than a highlight. Gunplay and melee attacks largely feel weightless and devoid of impact, but there’s a wealth of weapons to goof around with. My go-to was a flaming pistol I negotiated off of a wanted woman as I helped fake her death and avoid bounty hunters. It ended up being a worthwhile reward for a skippable sidequest.
While combat isn’t especially exciting, there are some extra twists that help it stand out. Extra skill perks and unlockable abilities deepen the combat, even bringing a hint of Dishonored to the game. It’s a nice way to add a little extra customization to a standard shooting system, working some unexpected surprises into an otherwise traditional shooter.
I’m oddly restricted in what I can actually do.
It’s all functional, but the emphasis on action can feel hollow too. With such an enormous game that spans galaxies, it’s a little discouraging that so much of my time is spent shooting humans and a very small handful of robots. When I’m off exploring distant planets, it’s largely so I can find new weapons or materials that I can transform into gun mods. While the world around me feels infinite, I’m oddly restricted in what I can actually do. Even its “research” aspect feels half-hearted, as there’s little incentive for scanning alien creatures and plants (not even so much as a codex to collect research in).
As immersed as I am, I’m always yearning for a greater purpose in Starfield.
 Surely there has to be more to this life than scavenging and killing! It’s an area where I can feel the limitations of human thinking — or at least the limits of a bankable, big-budget video game. Perhaps it’s a self-reflexive gag. Just as it’s comical to see Ryujin Industries squander the gift of space travel with its corporate warfare, maybe there’s some inadvertent satire in the fact that the most ambitious, adventurous game ever built is still a narrow-minded shooter.
A universe of potential Starfield approaches a more meaningful gameplay experience in its optional systems and exploration, though that comes with its own limitations. Its most impressive feat is the fact that it includes over 1,000 fully explorable planets.
 That’s an undeniable technical feat, as each one has its own look, gravity, resources, alien inhabitants, and explorable points of interest like mining sites and caves. I’m astonished the first time I land on a random planet’s moon and start wandering, only to discover an enormous frozen research lab filled with loot and logs explaining what went wrong. Moments like that will have players hunting the universe and sharing discoveries for years to come.
It all seems a little too good to be true — and it is at times. Planets are vast, but largely empty. I mostly find myself walking across miles of empty space, stopping to mine for an occasional resource or scan an alien between larger points of interest. And while I was excited the first time I found a massive underground structure on a random planet, it wasn’t long until a poorly hidden magic trick revealed itself. A handful of assets and locations are heavily reused, randomly dotting planets with little rhyme or reason. It doesn’t just reuse the occasional building, either. I came across the same identical cave structure, item placement and all, three times across totally unlinked planets. The more I encounter moments like that, the more painfully aware I am of how difficult it is to distill the beautiful complexities of the entire universe into a series of mechanical processes.
Bethesda presents players with an astonishingly massive expanse and invites them to poke and prod … That limitation is at its most unfortunate in Starfield ’s most disappointing aspect: flight. In its most aspirational move, Starfield allows players to build their own spaceship, travel the stars, and engage in the occasional dogfight. The reality of that system isn’t as thrilling as it sounds. When flying, players are essentially dropped into a glorified skybox where they can float in front of a distant planet and occasionally pass by some rocks or floating debris. It’s about as deep as hovering in orbit during a Destiny 2 loading screen. It doesn’t really seem like Bethesda wants players to engage with it much either; it’s largely an underexplored middle man between fast traveling to a galaxy and landing on a planet.
Poor ship combat doesn’t help matters. Battles simply toss a few spaceships into the sky and have players plinking away at them with lasers until they blow up. An unlockable targeting system makes proceedings a little more engaging, taking cues from Fallout’s VATS system, but battles are largely a repetitive hassle. It’s part of a recurring theme in Starfield ’s myriad of ideas; There’s a wealth of systems to play around with, but few have depth. It often feels like the goal was putting as much content into the game as possible instead of sharpening a few hero mechanics.
What’s far more successful is Starfield ’s customization potential, which feels like it’ll truly inspire players. Outpost building acts as a strong creative tool, as players can easily establish complex bases on any planet and assign crewmembers to run them. That creates a stronger incentive to explore planets in search of valuable resources that can be used to build bases. Starfield offers a similarly powerful tool in its spaceship building, giving players a great way to express themselves through creation — though it’s a shame that actually flying that ship is such a drag.
Bethesda Softworks / Bethesda Though the massive space sandbox can feel lonely and uneven, there’s an important reality to consider that goes beyond what’s actually included in the base game. Bethesda titles live and die by their modding communities , who give the company’s titles decades of extra life with unbelievably creative tune-ups. I’m already picturing a future where empty worlds are populated with custom cities, where I can zoom around a moon’s craters on a land speeder, where Thomas the Tank Engine appears among the stars and tries to gun down my ship.
That utopian vision is far more poignant than anything Starfield actually says. The story itself is about humanity’s desire to explore the very limits of our universe. It’s only fitting that Bethesda presents players with an astonishingly massive expanse and invites them to poke and prod it in every way they can think of. A decade from now, I imagine Starfield will stand as a multiversal monument to human dedication and creativity. That’s just not the game I’m actually tasked with critiquing here.
The Bethesda experience When reflecting on Starfield , I can’t help but think of the ambitious development team behind it. It’s apparent that this is a true passion project for Bethesda, which has spent the last eight years looking to create the biggest, most groundbreaking video game possible. It’s an impressive work of craftsmanship that I can’t help but admire … though it’s probably no surprise to hear that it comes with some traditional Bethesda caveats.
Though it’s likely less buggy than the studio’s previous games have been at launch, that’s like applauding a five-star chef for not serving too much raw steak in one night.
Starfield is full of glitches that range from inoffensive (jittery corpses) to game-breaking (quest-locking bugs) to downright weird (my character losing her face skin, turning her into a floating pair of eyeballs). Some of its more glaring issues I experienced may be addressed with early patches, but I can feel how close the game is to collapsing in on itself. During my playthrough, an entire hub city broke entirely, with every NPC losing their torsos and turning into a pile of floating limbs.
Elements that would have been groundbreaking even four years ago feel dated today.
Even if those more obvious bugs get cleaned up, Starfield has some notable performance issues to contend with on Xbox Series X.
 Whenever I freely run across a planet’s surface, the frame rate tends to stutter or downright tank depending on how busy the environment is. Chaotic story set pieces run into the same stability issues, with lots of jitters when it matters most. The impressive scale comes with visual inconsistency too. There’s a gulf of quality between breathtaking space vistas and flatly lit, sparsely detailed city rooms.
Starfield ’s greatest hurdle, though, is a philosophical one. Bethesda set out to make the definitive outer space game when it began developing the project in 2015, but eight years is a lifetime in the rapid world of video games. Like the universe, the game industry is always expanding. Elements that would have been groundbreaking even four years ago feel dated today. The standout writing of The Outer Worlds , Star Wars Squadrons ’ astonishing dogfights, even Cyberpunk 2077 ’s intricately designed Night City — all of these feel light-years ahead of Starfield when breaking it into its individual elements.
Bethesda Even with this laundry list of critiques, I’m still surprised to say that I find myself in awe of Starfield.
 And to understand why, I once again return to Constellation and the Sisyphean task on its hands. The group operates with tireless conviction in the face of infinity. That’s also the case with the developers at Bethesda as they continue to chase their own distant dream. Starfield is imperfect, but it’s through those imperfections that it delivers its most inadvertently honest takeaway. It’s a testament to human spirit and all the messy, beautiful things that are possible when we’re determined enough to reach for the stars.
Midway through my story, I strike up a conversation with a companion about Constellation’s goals. We discuss what drives them to seek the impossible, knowing full well they’ll never see the edges of space while remaining undeterred in the face of that maddening truth.
“The noble quest of discovery,” she replies.
Starfield was reviewed on a Xbox Series X hooked up to a TCL 6-Series R635.
Editors' Recommendations The best Xbox Series X exclusives All upcoming Xbox Series X games: 2023, 2024 and beyond Major Redfall patch adds 60 fps performance mode, a stealth overhaul, and more The best Xbox Series X games for 2023 The best games on Xbox Game Pass for right now (September 2023) Game Reviews Microsoft Product Reviews Xbox Gaming Head of Xbox Phil Spencer has finally commented on the massive Xbox leak that happened earlier today. In his public statement, he explained that "so much has changed" since many of the documents were created and asked fans to be excited about Xbox's future.
On Tuesday morning, unredacted versions of a lot of documents pertaining to the Xbox vs. FTC trial appeared. These emails and documents, most of which were created or written sometime between 2020 and 2022, revealed a lot of unannounced information. That included things like a mid-gen refresh for the Xbox Series X and S, some unannounced Bethesda games, and even Microsoft's early goals for its next-generation console. Hours later, Spencer commented on the leak.
"We've seen the conversation around old emails and documents," Spencer explained on X (formerly known as Twitter). "It is hard to see our team's work shared in this way because so much has changed and there's so much to be excited about right now, and in the future. We will share the real plans when we are ready." https://twitter.com/XboxP3/status/1704233222752571842 At first, people didn't know where the leak came from, with the FTC quickly denying that it leaked these things. Ultimately, United States District Judge Jacqueline Scott Corley revealed that Microsoft had done it to itself while trying to provide the court with a secure cloud link to relevant exhibits for the trial. The Verge went on to report that Phil Spencer also sent out a memo internally about the leaks today, echoing the statements in his tweet.
"Today, several documents submitted in the court proceedings related to our proposed acquisition of Activision Blizzard were unintentionally disclosed. I know this is disappointing, even if many of the documents are well over a year old and our plans have evolved," Spencer's memo reads. "I also know we all take the confidentiality of our plans and our partners’ information very seriously. This leak obviously is not us living up to that expectation. We will learn from what happened and be better going forward. We all put incredible amounts of passion and energy into our work, and this is never how we want that hard work to be shared with the community. That said, there’s so much more to be excited about, and when we’re ready, we’ll share the real plans with our players. In closing, I appreciate all of the work that you pour into Team Xbox to surprise and delight our players." The fact that Microsoft did this to itself is an embarrassing accident, especially when some of the information contained within the documents and emails is no longer accurate. For now, all we can do is wait and see if Microsoft will actually release new versions of its Xbox Series X and S consoles next year and if games like Doom Year Zero, a sequel to Ghostwire: Tokyo, and Dishonored 3 get announced.
Gaming Unredacted documents submitted and made publicly available to view as part of the ongoing Microsoft vs. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) trial just led to what may be the biggest leak in video game history.
A flood of files have revealed deep secrets about Xbox's upcoming plans for the bulk of the decade, giving us unprecedented insight into what's on the horizon for the gaming giant. That includes information on upcoming hardware refreshes, next-gen consoles, and unannounced Bethesda titles, as well as a further peek into Microsoft's acquisition ambitions. It's a lot to trudge through, so we've rounded up five key revelations that you'll want to know.
A new Xbox Series X model is coming next year https://twitter.com/stephentotilo/status/1704121068519133313 The most shocking thing to leak as part of the trial is a new Xbox Series X model. Referred to as "Brooklin -- Xbox Series X Refresh" in the leaked documents, this is a diskless, cylindrical version of the Xbox Series X with 2TB of internal storage, a USB-C port, and smaller technical improvements to the system's Wi-Fi, PSU, standby mode, and more. An upgraded Xbox Series S code-named Ellewood may also be in the works and released before Brooklin.
If Microsoft still follows the plan laid out in this "Roadmap to 2030" document created in May 2022, it would release Brooklin in late October 2024 for $500. If Microsoft still plans to release Brooklin next year, it does contradict recent statements from Xbox chief Phil Spencer, who acted bearish on the idea of a mid-gen refresh in Gamescom interviews. It's possible Microsoft's plans have changed since these leaked documents were made, but if not, we now know what to expect in terms of Microsoft's console refreshes.
A new Xbox controller is in the works https://twitter.com/charlieINTEL/status/1704088621475598345 Throughout that Brooklin leak, a new version of the Xbox Series X controller is also teased. The Xbox Series X controller is great, but lacks the unique features of controllers like the DualSense or Joy-Cons, so it makes sense Microsoft would want to change that. Referred to as "Sebile -- The New Xbox Controller," this controller can seamlessly pair and connect to the cloud.
It also will feature haptic feedback, an accelerometer gyro, quieter buttons, modular thumbsticks, a rechargeable and swappable battery, and the ability to wake just by being picked up. The same road map that lists Brooklin and Ellewood's release windows says the Sebile controller will launch sometime in late May 2024 for $70.
First details on Microsoft's next-gen console leak https://twitter.com/AR12Gaming/status/1704102055206322389 It's hard to believe we're almost already three years into this console generation and that Microsoft is planning for its next major console release, but that is the case. Unfortunately for Microsoft, its current technical ambitions for the platform were included in this leak. A leaked document states that Microsoft's ultimate goal is to "develop a next-generation hybrid game platform capable of leveraging the combined power of the client and cloud to deliver deeper immersion and entirely new classes of game experiences." In practice, a list of technical improvements lays out that we can expect an ARM64 CPU that balances big and little cores, a GPU co-designed with AMD, and an NPU that balances "the desire for flexible, programmable ML silicon versus high-performance silicon for targeted workloads," as well as support for better ray tracing, global illumination, micropolygon rendering, and an ML-based Super Resolution. Microsoft also mentions a "thin OS" meant for cheaper consumer and handled devices, likely to play games via the cloud.
This next-gen console is currently slated for a 2028 launch.
Several upcoming Bethesda games leak Enough about hardware -- several upcoming Bethesda games also leaked. A document from 2020 outlining Bethesda's game road map through fiscal year 2024 includes some games we don't know about. Alongside games we know of like MachineGames' Indiana Jones project, the list also includes several code-named projects, remasters of The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and Fallout 3, a GhostWire: Tokyo sequel, Doom Year Zero, and Dishonored 3.
Another document also confirmed that The Elder Scrolls VI won't launch until at least 2026. Some of these games have missed the release windows listed in the documents, so it's very possible that these dates are no longer accurate and that some may not be released at all. Still, it lays out a clear picture of what was in development at Bethesda just a few years ago and provides insight into the lineup that enticed Microsoft to purchase Bethesda in the first place.
Microsoft considered acquiring Nintendo and Warner Bros. Interactive https://twitter.com/tomwarren/status/1704021807341203802 A leaked email from 2020 gives some insight into Spencer's acquisition ambitions at that point. Namely, it sounds like he'd love to acquire Nintendo as it would be a "career moment" for him.
"I totally agree that Nintendo is THE prime asset for us in gaming, and today gaming is a most likely path to consumer relevance," he wrote. "I've had numerous conversations with the LT of Nintendo about tighter collaboration and feel like if any U.S. company would have a chance with Nintendo, we are probably in the best position ... At some point, getting Nintendo would be a career moment and I honestly believe a good move for both companies." Ultimately, Spencer didn't want to do a hostile takeover of Nintendo, so he settled for playing the "long game" when it came to acquiring it. This same email also reveals that Microsoft was interested in acquiring Warner Bros. Interactive around the same time as Bethesda, although the lack of any WB IP ownership was its undoing, Spencer is also as intrigued about acquiring Valve as it was Nintendo.
It's worth noting that this email is from over three years ago, and these acquisition ambitions might have been quelled following changing economic conditions and the rocky and expensive process of acquiring Activision Blizzard.
Gaming If there's one genre the Xbox series of consoles has struggled to really break into in the past, it's RPGs. Yes, each system had a standout title or two, like the original Xbox having Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic and the 360 having Lost Odyssey, but this particular family of consoles was always seen as secondary to RPG fans compared to Sony, or even Nintendo, machines. With the release of the Xbox Series X, Microsoft has made a strong effort to fill that gap in their library and has already done a great job of publishing, or at least supporting via Game Pass, some of the best RPGs in recent memory.
What counts as an RPG today covers a wide range of games. They can be turn-based, real-time, action-focused, narrative-focused, first-person, and more. So many games incorporate RPG elements now that it can be a little tough to find one that doesn't anymore. However, for this list, we're picking only games that are RPGs at their core, or at least have it as the main component rather than a game that just throws in progression bars and nothing else. Still, that leaves a lot of ground to cover. If you're feeling the itch for a new RPG to play on your Xbox Series X, we've picked out the best from a range of titles that should fill the exact experience you're looking for.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
