Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Destiny 2: Beyond Light review: Icy expansions brings cool changes By Giovanni Colantonio Close Versatile stasis powers Lots to explore on Europa Faster load times Dull campaign Classes feel imbalanced No matter how good it actually is, it’s always tempting to feel a glimmer of hope anytime a Destiny 2 expansion as significant as Beyond Light drops. Any excuse to hop back into one of the best shooters currently out is welcome at this point, but it’s becoming more necessary to keep one’s long-term expectations in check.
Welcome to Europa Ice to meet you Less is fine Our take Just over a year ago, we reviewed the game’s last big expansion, Shadowkeep.
 At the time, we said the upgrade was “brimming with potential” and hoped it would turn the game around after a rough year that lacked exciting content.
Destiny 2 studio Bungie hit by layoffs, internal game delays Destiny 2: Where is Xur for the weekend of December 30 The next year in Destiny 2 is ‘the beginning of the end’ If that sounds like déjà vu for fans, that’s because it’s the exact same situation Beyond Light finds itself in now.
Shadowkeep ultimately didn’t deliver on its intriguing setup, leaving players to hope that Beyond Light would put the ship back on course.
 After years of reliving this same cycle, it’s time to finally accept these expansions for what they actually are and stop using them as a symbolic Rorschach test for the game’s future.
Taken at face value, Destiny 2: Beyond Light is a perfectly suitable content drop for fans who just want more Destiny. The new Europa location and stasis ability give players a fair amount to toy around with, though the new story campaign is among the franchise’s weakest yet. It’s not a revelatory change for the looter shooter; it’s just a nice reason to log back in… and that’s okay.
Welcome to Europa Beyond Light offers one of Destiny 2’s most self-contained stories yet. Rather than zipping from planet to planet, just about the entirety of the five-hour campaign is spent on the game’s new location, Europa. The big bad this time around is a Fallen captain named Eramis, who has empowered her army with the game’s new element, stasis. Guardians are forced to fight fire with fire (or ice with ice, in this case) by wielding the power of the darkness against her.
Nothing about the story is particularly memorable. Eramis ends up amounting to little more than another anticlimactic villain, with the real big bad presumably being saved for the game’s upcoming raid. There’s not much to get excited about in the individual missions either, as the campaign is more or less the same sequence of objectives repeated three times. It feels less like a story and more like an elongated tutorial for stasis powers.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Despite those shortcomings, there’s some surprising thematic weight to the story. The good guys are left asking whether or not it’s morally right to use the tools of evil to fight evil, which feels intentionally pointed in our current political climate. That question becomes less compelling each time characters parrot the same existential debate, but it’s always welcome to hear meaningful, real-world questions posed during the game’s infinitely vague story about light and dark.
Europa itself is a mixed success when it comes to locations. At times, the snow-covered planet looks exactly like the moon with grey craters palette-swapped for white hills. The lack of convenient landing zones means that players will need to make the same long treks every time they have a new objective. The campaign and its subsequent post-quests will send players through the same handful of areas over and over again, which gets old fast.
The best parts of the planet are the spaces hiding below the snow. High-tech laboratories provide a stark contrast to Europa’s desolate surface, adding some environmental mystery to the mix. Europa’s lost sectors especially stand out, providing some of the expansion’s most inspired ideas. In one hidden area, I freed a platoon of Braytech robots, who became my personal army as I took down a giant hydra.
The story feels less like a story and more like an elongated tutorial for stasis powers.
Even with those bright spots, the new story content and location underwhelm compared to past expansions. There’s still plenty to enjoy, especially after the campaign ends, but Beyond Light feels less like the gold standard Taken King expansion and more like the comparatively less ambitious Rise of Iron.
Ice to meet you The campaign’s obsession with stasis is ultimately warranted. For the first time ever, Beyond Light adds an entirely new element for players to equip, complete with new supers and abilities. Stasis gives Guardians ice powers, allowing them to stop enemies cold, shatter frozen foes, and erect giant ice walls like Overwatch’s Mei.
Stasis is the most exciting feature to hit Destiny in years.
Stasis literally changes how the game is played and fans are already taking full advantage of it. The game’s Crucible PVP mode is currently in a state of delightful chaos as Guardians use their abilities to do things never before possible in Destiny. Some build ice walls to block off entrances to control points, allowing them to safely finish capturing them. Others throw the ability at their feet, shooting them dozens of feet into the air.
The Destiny series has rarely had that type of experimentation, even when adding new subclasses and supers. It was always clear what its three damage types did, no matter how they were wrapped up. Stasis feels entirely foreign, adding excitement back into activities players have grinded out for years.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The way the stasis subclass works completely differs from the old trio. Players can augment each ability with fragments that completely change the way it operates. When the ice wall grenade wasn’t clicking with my playstyle, I switched over to one that shot out a creeping row of icicles that could chain to enemies. There’s so much depth to the way players can customize the subclass, which makes it genuinely rewarding to hunt down more options.
It does feel like Bungie has some tweaking to do, however. Stasis is absurdly powerful in a way that feels unsustainable in the long run. Not only does ice freeze enemies (it can even shut down supers), it harms them once they break out too. That’s a blast in PVE activities where players can shatter an entire mob of dregs, but it feels out of whack in competitive modes. Getting frozen feels like a death sentence, no matter what the circumstance is, making stasis feel like an imbalanced option in its current state.
Even if there’s work to be done, stasis is the most exciting feature to hit Destiny in years. It opens the door for new playstyles and makes old experiences feel new again. It’s exactly the kind of refresh the game has long struggled to achieve.
Less is fine The big story with Beyond Light is less about what it adds and more about what it removes. The update slims Destiny 2 down significantly, removing entire planets and their corresponding activities. Places like Mercury are gone, ridding fans of tedious content like the Infinite Forest.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What’s surprising is that none of it feels missed so far. I haven’t felt bummed out about not being able to patrol on Titan or missing out on a run of Escalation Protocol. The mass expulsion highlights just how gluttonous Destiny 2 had become in years as it amassed filler content that didn’t add anything.
Not much is added in their place, but that has its benefits.
Destiny 2’s file size has nearly been cut in half, making for a more compact game that already feels like it runs much smoother. Load times are faster and I’ve run into far less loading zone hiccups during strikes.
Beyond Light is about stripping the game back down to its bare essentials so Bungie and players alike can figure out what’s actually fun about the game.
The added stability feels like a fair trade, though the long-term impact is unclear. With much of Beyond Light’s content contained to Europa, I’m not sure how small things will feel once I’ve cleared out my quests. Many of those questions should be answered in the upcoming Season of the Hunt, but perpetually skeptical fans wouldn’t be wrong to brace for another slow year.
That’s why it’s so important to recalibrate expectations this time around.
Beyond Light isn’t about starting a bright chapter for the series. It’s about stripping the game back down to its bare essentials so Bungie and players alike can figure out what’s actually fun about the game. It’s entirely possible that Beyond Light only holds players’ interest for a few weeks, but maybe it’s time to accept that Destiny 2 might be less effective as a long-tailed service game and more enjoyable as a rock-solid shooter that’s worth revisiting a few times a year.
Our take Destiny 2: Beyond Light is a slimmer offering than fans might have hoped for thanks to its disappointing campaign, but there’s still enough intrigue beneath Europa’s surface to warrant a return to orbit. The new stasis subclasses freshen up years-old experiences and make parts of the game feel new again, even if the honeymoon feeling melts away in a few weeks.
Is there a better alternative? The answer is still no, though competition is getting fiercer.
Warframe is especially creeping up on the throne, but Destiny 2’s shooting is still unmatched.
How long will it last? The campaign itself only takes around five hours, but there are plenty of quests and activities to complete even before the new season begins.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you’re already sold on Destiny 2 , there’s no reason not to continue the adventure. The move to next-gen is an added reason to jump back in for new console owners.
Editors' Recommendations Bungie plots Destiny 2: The Final Shape overhaul in wake of mass layoffs PS Plus adds Evil Dead, OlliOlli World, and more in February Destiny 2 Halloween event: details and rewards Here’s the entire Destiny 2 story explained, up through The Witch Queen Destiny 2: The Witch Queen weapon crafting guide Destiny 2 Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Dying Light 2 gives players plenty of opportunities to earn XP. With two skill trees to level up, it isn't hard to decide where you want to invest your time. You'll earn plenty of passive XP just by playing the game, but how do you grind the most XP and level up fast in Dying Light? Should you stick to main quests or side quests? What about activities and parkour challenges? Here are some general tips and tricks to level up fast in Dying Light 2.
Dying Light 2 brings back zombie-killing mayhem -- and humanity The best zombie games of all time The best upcoming PS5 games Gaming There are hundreds of ways to kill zombies and Renegades alike in Dying Light 2. However, players want to know the best weapons in Dying Light 2, where to find them, and if they work with their build. Villedor is home to plenty of weapons to find, spanning type, tier, and damage output -- but all of them break eventually. When it comes down to it, the best weapons in Dying Light 2 are those you can keep forever. How different are they, and how vital are weapon levels compared to weapon tier? What if we told you the best weapons in Dying Light 2 were under your nose the whole time? Dying Light 2 brings back zombie-killing mayhem -- and humanity The best zombie games of all time Dying Light 2 PC performance: The best settings for high fps Gaming It's been 15 years since Kyle Crane told the GRE where they could shove it. Now, in Dying Light 2, Aiden Caldwell, our new protagonist, embarks on a quest to find his sister in the zombie-ridden city of Villedor. Aiden (and players alike) must master several new mechanics to survive the infested city. Thankfully, some returning favorites, like the grappling hook, give long-time fans something to look forward to in the later chapters. Here are some essential tips and tricks for getting started in Dying Light 2.
Dying Light 2 brings back zombie-killing mayhem -- and humanity The best zombie games of all time Dying Light 2 PC performance: The best settings for high fps Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
