Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Gears Tactics review: New genre, same gory Gears mayhem By Josh Brown Close $60.00 Deep yet accessible gameplay Feels like a natural extension of the franchise's best features Another interesting kick to its constantly evolving lore A new way to take in an old world A few control and camera issues Texture pop-in persists Presentation looks and feels a bit bland Gears Tactics is another attempt to entice onlookers into the long-running franchise that put Microsoft’s Xbox 360 firmly on the map. After more than 14 years of gruff voices and bulging biceps, turn-based death and destruction wrapped around the series’ signature sauce make for the most exciting addition to the saga since Gears of War 2.
Scratch 12 grubs Tactics on the battlefield, strategy in the menus Our Take What we have here is a turn-based strategy title all about everyone’s favorite band of block-headed bros and their struggles against the infamous Locust horde.
Commanding a tiny but cocky team to splatter freaky lizards feels familiar yet different enough to pry Gears veterans from its third-person roots while giving strategy fans the kind of small-odds stand-offs they thrive on.
Gears Tactics doesn’t hold your hand, but it will inspire you to execute the grub-slaying strategies your online buddies would usually botch. It’s a testament to a franchise that perfected gory combat from its inception, and this tactical approach to its format should have been done years ago.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Gears Tactics is a prequel set 12 years before the first game, as Gabe Diaz takes the reins. His team is tasked with murdering Ukkon, the enigmatic engineer behind the iconic Brumak and Corpser monstrosities, and he isn’t afraid to use his grotesque creations to stop you.
Scratch 12 grubs To put Ukkon down, you recruit and replenish heroes and foot soldiers, with their roles decided by which one of five iconic weapons they prefer.
It may not sound like much to mess around with. Still, the tight design helps to keep the core elements of combat simple, with more sophisticated strategies being born through the direction you decide to take their unique talent trees as they level up through combat.
With only the occasional cutscene moving the narrative along, you’re almost always facing off against the enemy. There’s very little menu fluff to get stuck into, which is good given the menus wouldn’t look out of place on a mobile phone.
Once you’re out in the open, it’s all hands on deck. No matter which of the four mission types you find yourself in, your squad of four or fewer units land in the same position with the fog of war obscuring nearly everything until you push forward through the mud.
There’s a decent amount of variety when it comes to mission objectives, but they all boil down to the same thing: Kill some freaky lizards.
Each turn looks, feels, and sounds like a Gears of War skirmish.
Each unit expends a limited amount of AP per turn between offensive and defensive actions, and you can cycle through your team to optimize your budget.
Cinematic executions return and are encouraged to get the most out of your team’s strict action limit. It really wouldn’t feel like a Gears game without them.
The way Gear’s iconic action sequences seamlessly translate to this turn-based formula creates a combat dynamic that feels shockingly accurate to the source material while providing a welcome new perspective. The idea to take an existing Gears game and simply move the camera up begins to make sense here.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Each turn looks, feels, and sounds like a Gears of War skirmish playing out from a different angle. Units slide into cover and fire (and miss) from behind, and the cinematic kill-cam occasionally goes over a unit’s shoulder to get you closer to the action.
Loot caches scattered across each battlefield award random weapon attachments and equipment at the end of the mission, padding out the time spent between tasks by offering plenty of character customization. Once you start to recruit more allies, you’ll spend a good five to 10 minutes between each mission, ensuring their equipment and abilities align.
Popping a Boomer’s head and using its grenade launcher to burst Wretches is just icing on the cake, and tossing a pineapple into an emergence hole still feels worthy of a high-five from whoever’s around.
Tactics on the battlefield, strategy in the menus Story progression and mandatory side-missions facilitate the need for reserve troops. You can’t retrieve a unit’s equipment if they’re used even once in a multi-mission chapter, making loot management another thing to keep tabs on. By the time you reach some of the later acts, the wonky customization menu starts to complicate things.
Gears Tactics gets the franchise’s grand ambitions of worldwide conflict across effectively.
Unless you’re a master tactician, memorizing each unit’s dozen or so passive and active skills isn’t easy. A list of each unit’s traits can be called up, but attempting to squeeze the most out of every turn is a serious mental workout that can tax newcomers.
It’s the kind of information overload that veterans of the series are bound to fall in love with, and one that wouldn’t be quite so problematic if you were able to take the same team into each mission.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The slower turn-based pacing of Gears Tactics breathes new life into the franchise, which is all about a nearly never-ending war of attrition. The series has begun to embrace a more open-world feeling, but rather than exploring before another big battle, having the time to pan around during an ongoing skirmish somehow helps the decimated world of Sera feel more alive than ever.
As with previous entries, Gears Tactics is still plagued by texture pop-in issues, and anyone but the main cast looks and sounds a little stiff. But once things load properly, Gears Tactics gets the franchise’s grand ambitions of worldwide conflict across effectively.
You’re more likely to cheer on a good grenade toss or a lucky critical hit than to complain about technical quirks or hit-calculation methods.
Just as with Gears 5 , my keyboard and controller were constantly battling for control over the action, creating camera and cursor conflicts. Paired with the inability to check enemy hit chances only to have the line-of-sight indicator lie, there were times I felt the game wasn’t being entirely fair.
But, on a lower difficulty, there were far more cheers of victory than tears of anguish. There were gameplay sessions that, paired with a menu that already feels touch-intuitive, could easily translate to mobile devices sometime in the future.
XCOM did it , and I wouldn’t mind taking Tactics on the train.
Our Take Gears Tactics is my favorite Gears game in years. It isn’t nearly as feature-rich as the main series titles. Still, its slower pacing is an exciting new way to enjoy the crumbled civilization of Sera, whether you’re a long-time fan or a newbie looking for a new big-budget strategy title.
A few technical issues aside, it has reinvigorated my love of a franchise I truly thought wouldn’t survive the next-gen leap. It turns out, it wasn’t the increasingly complicated story pushing me away from the franchise, but rather the same tired gameplay loop it has employed over the last decade and a half.
Gears Tactics is a brilliant next step for a series that hasn’t seen much in the way of innovation since its inception. It’s not massively ambitious, but it’s bloody good fun.
Is there a better alternative out there? It’s XCOM in the Gears universe. Both games have many years of lore behind them that isn’t at all necessary to their enjoyment, making them equals right now. You’ll get the same core experience. It’s more a question of which world you’d rather dive into first.
How long will it last? A few dozen hours, for sure. It all depends on how much prep you put into each turn. There are multiple difficulty options with key strategy game modifiers to add the heat. If you’re up for a challenge, you’ll be playing this for a long time.
Should you buy it? That depends. Being a Microsoft-owned IP, every game in the franchise is available on GamePass in some way. It’s worth the $60 price tag to hardcore Gears fans and absolutely worth a few bucks to quickly run through if you’re new to the franchise.
Editors' Recommendations Gears Tactics turns the shooter into an XCOM-style strategy game in 2020 Action Games Game Reviews Product Reviews Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Gaming November 19 marks the 25th anniversary of the original Half-Life, and to celebrate, Valve made a special announcement. No, Half-Life 3 was not announced. But Valve celebrated the anniversary with a massive update to the game on PC and a new documentary detailing its development. The best part: It's all available for free.
Half-Life's 25th-anniversary update incorporates the Half-Life: Uplink demo that Valve gave away as a CD via magazine and hardware manufacturer promotions in the 1990s and introduces many multiplayer maps. That includes four brand-new maps -- Contamination, Pool Party, Disposal, and Rocket Frenzy -- and three more maps that were previously only included in the Half-Life: Further Data CD release: Double Cross, Rust Mill, and Xen DM. It's also now possible to play as a Space Biker, Prototype Barney, Skeleton, and Too Much Coffee Man and use dozens of Further Data sprays in Half-Life: Deathmatch.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
