Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? High on Life review: Rick and Morty meets Metroid in memorable shooter By Giovanni Colantonio Close $59.99 Some genuinely hilarious jokes Smooth traversal Distinct visual style Deceptively deep shooting Hit-and-miss humor Backtrack-heavy second half Wears out its welcome Late in High on Life , I experience a tender moment amid all the cosmic silliness. Two lovers (a star-crossed alien and human duo) find themselves on the verge of a breakup, struggling to grasp their complicated feelings for one another. A heated argument ends with a sweet understanding that, in spite of the overwhelming absurdity of the universe, the two do love one another. That’s capped off by the alien turning to me and insisting that the moment is sincere, taking a shot at a lesser game that might be tempted to undercut that emotional beat.
Interdimensional gaming Rick and Metroid Meeseeks and destroy “You’d be playing some Rockstar game, you fucking asshole,” he says, completely breaking character as he spits out the last few words through a laugh. I can hear someone in the background of the recording cackling too, absolutely losing it over the preposterously aggressive improvisation. It’s a moment that best speaks to developer Squanch Games’ whole creative approach with its new sci-fi shooting adventure. To hell with structure or rules — these are game makers who are having the time of their lives simply trying to make each other laugh. Considering that I had to pause the game during that scene because I was doubled over in my airplane seat cracking up, I’d say that attitude is infectious.
The best games on Xbox Game Pass for right now (September 2023) Is Starfield on Xbox One? Best Xbox Live Gold deals for January 2023 High on Life plays exactly like a Ricky and Morty joke riff: It makes a strong impression upfront, sustains that energy for a while, goes on a little too long for its own good, and tapers off before delivering a true punch line. It can be a touch uneven at times, especially in its hit-and-miss humor, but it sticks the landing overall thanks to its unbridled creativity and deceptively deep gunplay.
Interdimensional gaming Allow me to help you figure out if this game is your jam in a quick sentence: High on Life is a first-person shooter created by Rick and Morty ’s Justin Roiland. If you don’t have the tolerance for Roiland’s humor , then I doubt you’ll be able to stomach over 10 hours of it. The comedy here is largely similar to that of Ricky and Morty , as it’s loaded with sci-fi absurdity and adult humor that gleefully swirls down the proverbial potty hand in hand. If you love that style, you’re in for a good time. If you don’t, you’ll want to set the “banter” toggle to off.
A joke tends to lose its power each time you hear it, and there’s a lot of repetition here.
The story finds a nameless protagonist and their sister flung in the middle of an alien conflict while their parents are on vacation. Their house is warped to a far-off planet where a three-eyed alien named Gene enlists their help (and their couch) to hunt down members of the G3, an intergalactic cartel that’s turning humans into drugs. The hero takes on the role of a bounty hunter, tracking down aliens alongside an arsenal of talking guns, called Galatians. The story has a few things to say about family and finding one’s calling in life, but it’s mostly just set dressing for a planet-hopping adventure.
The comedy here is as hit-and-miss as it comes. The talking gun schtick, for instance, oscillates between funny and cloying throughout. Roiland himself has the firmest grasp on the humor here, lending the handgun-like Kenny his signature Morty stutter, but the voice actors are only as funny as their gun’s schtick. JB Smoove (who voices Gus, a shotgun equivalent) doesn’t get as many good gags to play with and Betsy Sorado’s Sweezy is inherently a bit grating. Tim Robinson, on the other hand, gets to fire out some zingers as he plays the role of Creature, a dad who uses his children like bullets and proudly watches them live out their short life span. They grow up so fast.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s similar inconsistency throughout. A fair amount of gags fall flat, as they substitute yelling, swearing, or bodily functions for an actual joke. Others had me cackling. A key emotional beat happens at a “Space Applebee’s,” a hilarious riff on Nathan For You ’s Dumb Starbucks. At one point, I find a collectible card that just has Frasier’s face on it, with flavor text wondering if it’s even legal for the developers to include it. The best laughs in High on Life are the ones that feel like the Squanch Games crew just making offhand jokes to one another and including what made them laugh. The biggest reaction I had was during an obnoxiously long conversation with an “alien cum” vendor, which abruptly ended with Smoove breaking character as I tried to buy a vial. You can almost hear the developers saying, “Screw it, we’re keeping it.” High on Life ultimately runs into problems that are common in comedy games of this nature. For one, there’s a lot of dead air to fill due to its length. While there are plenty of good side gags packed into every location (dueling broadcasts about Mothers For and Against Violence make for a great background goof), it’s hard to sustain that level of comedy throughout. By the end, it felt like my guns were just filling space with repeated voice lines. A joke tends to lose its power each time you hear it, and there’s a lot of repetition here.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That’s especially true because Squanch isn’t out to create a walk in the park.
High on Life can be challenging, with complex combat that had me dying on its toughest encounters a few times. When one late game boss fight gave me a run for my money, I quickly found myself rolling my eyes as I had to sit through the same Metal Gear Solid riff four or five times. With the emphasis more on authored jokes instead of the emergent humor, I’m left feeling like High on Life doesn’t always take advantage of what makes video games a unique comedic platform.
Rick and Metroid Though its humor is sure to be polarizing, the actual gameplay is far more agreeable.
High on Life takes a lot of design cues from Metroid Prime , delivering a first-person adventure game with an emphasis on platforming. That aspect of it sings, as players unlock new tools that slowly open up the world until every inch of it is easily explorable. It starts with a grappling hook (attached to a bloodthirsty knife) that’s used to cross gaps and avoid poison floors, but builds up with satisfying traversal tools like jetpacks. Platforming is fast and smooth, giving players plenty of opportunities to chain their abilities together to make big moves.
Though High on Life will largely be judged on its humor, its strengths as an adventure game shouldn’t be overlooked.
There’s a strong sense of ability progression throughout the adventure, as guns themselves have utilities outside of combat. Sweezy is able to freeze time, allowing players to squeeze through fan vents, while Creature can shoot his children into pipes to access locked rooms. Some mechanics can wind up feeling a little underutilized, as H igh on Life doesn’t deliver too many brain-busting environmental puzzles, but there’s enough to make planet revisits worthwhile.
Understanding what makes a Metroidvania work , Squanch fills its alien planets with collectibles, sight gags, and hidden chests. The latter is the most important part, as chests grant pesos that can be used to buy suit and weapon upgrades. There’s a whole lot to purchase, from health increases to mods that change how a weapon works. One mod allowed Kenny’s bullets to ricochet off enemies while in the air, completely changing my playstyle as I focused on juggling my foes. Though there’s a disappointingly slim selection of mods, I still found myself eager to explore so I could nab them all and experiment.
Image used with permission by copyright holder As an adventure game, High on Life excels most of all when it comes to its aesthetic. The world itself is a delight to explore as each location is packed with visual creativity (and fittingly soundtracked by a chill score from electronic musician Tobacco). Blim City is a compact metropolis that’s bustling with chatty aliens, goofy billboards, and hilarious loudspeaker broadcasts. Another planet, inhabited by a tribe of foulmouthed teddy bears, is a colorful jungle that’s rich with cosmic flora. Each biome has its own distinct personality, which keeps the spacefaring adventure’s momentum up — at least until it starts repeating locations in its backtrack-heavy second half.
Though High on Life will largely be judged on its humor, its strengths as an adventure game shouldn’t be overlooked. Squanch Games gets what made games like Metroid Prime so special and connects that to Roiland’s knack for creating distinct sci-fi worlds. Those two are a natural fit for a modest adventure game that’s refreshingly crafted compared to a lot of today’s more bloated game worlds.
Meeseeks and destroy What’s most unexpected about High on Life is how well it functions as a first-person shooter. Early on, its combat seems thin. Kenny can pepper enemies with handgun shots and use his “globshot” (a word you’re going to get sick of very fast) to launch enemies in the air. However, each of the game’s four guns gradually layer on complexity until battles become a fast-paced gloop war.
As soon as I got the hang of each gun’s nuances, I reveled in the deep combo potential.
Rather than simply copying a normal weapon archetype, Squanch makes each gun feel special. Sweezy, for instance, functions like a rapid-fire machine gun. But when aiming down sights, it’s able to charge up a long-distance shot that snipes enemies from afar. On top of that, it can freeze time with its secondary ability, adding an entirely different utility that synergizes with every other weapon. In a normal arena battle, I usually find myself freezing an enemy, siccing Creature’s kids on it, sucking in another with Gus’ vacuum ability to finish them off with a shotgun blast, launching another patch of enemies in the air with Kenny’s globshot, and firing at one to ricochet shots down on everyone else. As soon as I got the hang of each gun’s nuances, I reveled in the deep combo potential.
High on Life keeps itself relatively short and compact, which is a good decision considering that it’s already stretched thin as is. I found myself going through the motions a bit in its last few bounties as I walked back through the same few areas and completed more wave-like battles that always go on a beat too long (something that the guns themselves joke about). It all ends in a strangely anticlimactic manner that’s so abrupt that I was waiting for a mid-credit twist.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That’s where I mostly see Roiland’s brand of wandering improv riffs reflected in the shooter’s structure. Like Rick and Morty ’s Pickle Rick episode , High on Life doesn’t build to a grand punch line. It’s more focused on those immediate hits of fun that’ll keep players entertained in the moment — you probably remember “I’m Pickle Rick!” clearer than any actual plot details of that episode. Satisfying combat, smooth traversal, and a smattering of hilarious vignettes make for an admirable adventure game whose individual parts are more memorable than the full picture.
Just don’t ask me why I have an achievement that says I spent 15 hours in an alien strip club.
High on Life was tested on PC and Steam Deck.
Editors' Recommendations All upcoming Xbox Series X games: 2023, 2024 and beyond The best RPGs for Xbox Series X Best Xbox Game Pass deals: Upgrade to Game Pass Ultimate for cheap Best Xbox Series X and Series S deals: discounts and bundles Is Baldur’s Gate 3 coming to Xbox? Game Reviews Microsoft Product Reviews Xbox Gaming The file sizes for Starfield finally appeared across some of the storefronts it's available on now that it's available to preload. As a result, we've learned just how massive the game is.
On Steam, Bethesda recommends that players have 125 GB of space for the game, but Microsoft's own launcher shows an even bigger PC install size of 139.84 GB for Starfield. That size is only slightly smaller on the console, with the Xbox Store showing me that the game will take up 117.07 GB on my Xbox Series X. It's now very understandable why Microsoft is launching a 1 TB version of the Xbox Series S around Starfield; still, the game will even take over a tenth of that system's memory if players aren't expanding it at all.
This 110+ GB file size across all platforms for Starfield demonstrates just how big Bethesda's upcoming sci-fi RPG will be. It also follows a recent trend of even single-player taking up gigantic chunks of your game system's memory. This year alone, we've seen Star Wars Jedi: Survivor take up over 130 GB of space on consoles, while Baldur's Gate 3 clocks in at 125.14 GB currently. As games get bigger with more detail, it's clear that our gaming platforms will be able to accommodate fewer and fewer games on their SSDs going forward.
At least you can play the game via Xbox Cloud Gaming if none of your platforms can accommodate that file size. Starfield will be released for PC and Xbox Series X/S on September 6. Those who pre-order the Premium Edition will get access on September 1, though.
Gaming Like any other consoles, the Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S aren't without issues. Even after several years on the market giving Microsoft time to push out updates and fixes, there are still some issues that can crop up.
In this guide, we're going to cover the most common Xbox Series X problems, as well as how to fix them. You can also keep up with all updates, known issues, and potential fixes directly from Xbox.
Get in touch with Microsoft Before getting to any fixes, take note of the different contact options for Microsoft and Xbox support. There's a robust support system in place, and for certain issues, you'll need to contact Microsoft for a repair or replacement. If you have a smaller issue that we haven't covered in this guide, you can ping us on Twitter @DigitalTrends so we can add it to this guide, as well as tag @XboxSupport. That seems to be the fastest support route.
Gaming Microsoft finally made the decision to move on from its monthly online-access subscription service Xbox Live Gold. On September 14, Xbox Live Gold will transform into Xbox Game Pass Core, with current Gold subscribers automatically gaining a Game Pass Core subscription.
An Xbox Live subscription tied to online play has existed in some form since Xbox Live launched in 2002, but Xbox Live Gold as we now know it truly came into form in July 2013 when Microsoft started the Games with Gold program that gave subscribers free games each month in addition to that online access. Although Microsoft rolled back some online restrictions in 2021, Games with Gold continues to this day. That will all end when Game Pass Core launches.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
