Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Resident Evil Village review: Franchise’s highs, lows crammed into one package By Giovanni Colantonio Close $60.00 Creative worldbuilding Memorable set pieces Rewarding exploration Compactly designed village Uneven structure Weak action Lacks tension If Resident Evil 7 was a return to form for gaming’s most iconic horror franchise, Resident Evil Village is a full-blown identity crisis. Not content to simply repeat the success of its predecessor, the new installment crams 25 years of history into eight hours. It’s not the best Resident Evil game, but it might be the most Resident Evil game.
A horror anthology Making my way downtown Power struggle Our take That’s both good and bad news for fans of the shape-shifting franchise. Everything that players loved about classics like the original game and Resident Evil 4 is present in the new game’s DNA. That’s just as true in the opposite direction, too, as Capcom has put together a big, bold franchise retrospective that doesn’t cover up the warts.
Resident Evil 4’s best speedrunning glitch removed in latest update Resident Evil 4 Shooting Gallery guide: locations, rewards, and tips Resident Evil 4: All Yellow Herb locations Resident Evil Village works best when it’s serving up atmospheric exploration that cleverly expands on the franchise’s puzzle box roots. It’s less fun as an action-packed first-person shooter. That clash of styles represents the entire series in a nutshell.
A horror anthology Resident Evil Village picks up three years after the events of 7.
 Charisma black hole Ethan Winters has settled down with his wife, Mia, and baby, Rosemary, following the whole Louisiana incident. His domestic paradise crumbles when Chris Redfield makes a shocking entrance. Ethan finds himself looking for his family in a creepy European village that’s infested with lycans, vampires, and more (oh, my!).
Like many elements of the game, the story is a little all over the place. It offers up some excellent scares early on as Ethan is overwhelmed by vicious werewolves that make the franchise’s old zombies seem sweet. The tone quickly becomes sillier as the game introduces its colorful cast of characters. Structurally, it’s a horror movie anthology where each character headlines their own monster flick.
Sometimes, that flow really works. The Lady Dimitrescu (“the tall vampire lady”) section of the game plays like a mini version of Resident Evil 2 where players creep around a big castle, solving puzzles and running from vampires that persistently stalk the halls. It’s a self-contained B-movie that packs a ton of intriguing worldbuilding into a concise two-hour stretch.
One particular section, which I won’t spoil, serves up both the best horror and puzzle work the series has ever done in the same breath. The focused brevity only makes it that much stronger.
It’s a gleeful exploration of genre clichés that gets to spread its grotesque wings and play with something other than zombies.
Other vignettes aren’t as successful. One later section invokes 1990s horror-action flicks like Lake Placid , and mostly manifests as a chase scene that trades in tension for simple platforming puzzles. Push a crate, press some buttons, avoid some obvious scripted death traps. Ironically, the more it leans into action-horror motifs, the less exciting it is to actually play.
While some ideas match the game’s mechanics better than others, it’s nice to see the series’ horror nerd roots on full display here. It’s a gleeful exploration of genre clichés that gets to spread its grotesque wings and play with something other than zombies.
Making my way downtown Resident Evil Village may look like a departure for the series on its surface, but most of its new features are a clever iteration of the franchise’s design staples. That’s most apparent in the game’s titular village. It’s more open than a standard Resident Evil mansion, but it quietly functions the same way. The village is one big puzzle box that players slowly unlock as they progress.
Some of the game’s best moments simply come from atmospheric stretches of exploration. There are so many little rewards tucked away in different corners of the map. It’s not quite a sprawling open world, but that’s why it works. It’s a compactly designed village where each little hut is worth exploring.
In a game full of instantly iconic characters, the village itself is the real star of the show.
Every new feature serves the village. A Last of Us -style crafting system acts as a clever evolution of item combination and gives more reasons to scavenge. There’s a traveling merchant (a deliberate nod to Resident Evil 4 ) who sells weapon upgrades and ammo in exchange for pillaged valuables. There are even a handful of small side-quests, which encourage thorough scavenging while telling some micro-stories that explore the history of the decaying town.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Some ideas feel like light experiments that are auditioning for a full role later on. Take the new cooking system, which rewards players with health boosts when they hunt down animals hidden throughout the town. With only a small handful of recipes to complete, it feels like Capcom is only testing the waters for a sequel. In general, Village plays like an anniversary survey that’s designed to help the studio figure out where to take things next.
It’s not the best version of what it could be, but every little piece helps create a Resident Evil game that emphasizes the strengths of previous locations. In a game full of instantly iconic characters, the village itself is the real star of the show. Sorry, Lady D fans.
Power struggle Just about every beloved Resident Evil release has the same problem. While they generally start as frightening horror games that take power away from the player, they inevitably conclude with an inferior action set piece.
Village once again commits that sin, but it’s more frustrating than ever. The back third of the game suddenly transforms into a dull corridor shooter that lays the self-serious melodrama on thick (I have to emphasize this: Ethan Winters might be the most boring hero in all of video games).
Image used with permission by copyright holder The weapons don’t feel built for fast shootouts with dozens of enemies. They’re slow, almost archaic. That works during horror sequences where players struggle to get shots off on a fast-approaching lycan. It’s less fun when blasting away at waves of bullet-sponge enemies later in the game. The same mechanics that are built to instill panic are used to fuel an action power fantasy. It just doesn’t mesh.
That’s apparent in the game’s bonus Mercenaries mode , where players rush to kill a set number of monsters within a short time period. Slow movement and sluggish gunplay just make the mode feel like it’s running at half speed, as if Ethan is shooting while sinking in quicksand.
With each dramatic beat having no lasting impact on the story, any sense of danger is lost early on.
This conflict is a running theme throughout the game; players are meant to feel powerless and powerful at the same time. Those ideas trample on one another, weakening both ends of the spectrum. During the story, we see truly horrific things happen to its characters that are quickly brushed off as “just a flesh wound.” As soon as it starts feeling like any injury can be cured with magic health potions, all the stakes and tension go out the window. Body horror becomes slapstick comedy.
It begins to feel like certain scenes are only there for pure shock value — and that effect wears thin fast. With each dramatic beat having no lasting impact on the story, any sense of danger is lost early on. The fact that players can just pop into a menu and craft ammo mid-fight feeds into that, too; nothing bad ever really happens despite all the gore. With no consequences, risks, or stakes, I played through the entire back half of the game stone-faced with nothing phasing me. That’s the kind of tepid reaction that horror movies fear.
Is Resident Evil a series about puny humans narrowly surviving terrifying situations? Or is it about pseudo-superheroes triumphantly gunning down mutants? Resident Evil Village idles in front of that crossroads instead of choosing a path.
Our take Resident Evil Village is an uneven anthology of horror movie send-ups. Sometimes it offers a truly exciting vision of the series’ future with imaginative world-building and rewarding exploration. Other times, it’s a fairly run-of-the-mill shooter that struggles to provide any real stakes or tension. Those two tones are often at odds with one another, highlighting all of the franchise’s best and worst instincts in one eclectic package. Chalk it up to a quarter-life crisis.
Is there a better alternative? A lot of previous Resident Evil games do what Village does, but in a more focused manner. Try 2 for the exploration, 3 for the action, or 7 for the horror.
How long will it last? The story is around eight to 10 hours long, though there’s a lot of incentive to replay it to unlock new weapons and art. The Mercenaries mode adds a little extra playtime, too. You can also add Resident Evil Village mods to change the game entirely.
Should you buy it? Yes. It’s a real toss-up of a question. This is still a fascinating entry in the iconic series even if it’s unsuccessful at times. But those who haven’t already bought in should steer clear, regardless of how much they want to meet Lady Dimitrescu.
Editors' Recommendations iPhone 15 Pro can natively run the latest Resident Evil and Assassin’s Creed games The best Resident Evil 4 mods Resident Evil 4 Charms: all Charm effects and where to find them Resident Evil 4 locked drawers guide: all Small Key locations The best weapons in Resident Evil 4 Game Reviews Product Reviews Resident Evil Gaming In the opening chapters of the Resident Evil 4 remake, you will come across strange shrines erected by a cult. These can be interacted with, but prompt you to use an item. Unfortunately, you won't even have the chance to open the first couple you find since the item required to open them can't be picked up until a bit later -- and only if you know where to search for it. But it's ro say that the treasures you get from them make it worth your time to backtrack and grab all the goodies inside. Here's how you can open all the Wayshrines in the Resident Evil 4 remake, and what each one holds inside.
How to get the Wayshrine Key Surprise surprise, but Wayshrines can only be opened once you grab the Wayshrine Key. It will feel like a long time, but you can't even access the key until you reach Chapter 4 and beat Del Lago. Once you can explore the lake, head south to the Mural Cave. Deep in the caves, you will find an ornate cabinet after solving the puzzle in the cave. You can get there by going down the path from the southern dock and through the section with the two large stone hands. Thankfully, unlike Small Keys, the Wayshrine Key is reusable and can open every Wayshrine in the game.
How to 0pen Wayshrines Gaming The castle section of the Resident Evil 4 remake is one of the most diabolical. Aside from being visually distinct from the previous village area, this location is full of tougher enemies and deadlier traps. Once you've managed to escape from the dungeons and up into the castle proper, you will be blocked by a gate beside some images of a knight in different situations. Something is off about all of them, and one part missing entirely. This is the sword puzzle, but it isn't as straightforward as you might assume looking at it. Here's how to solve the Sword Puzzle and make your way into the Audience Chamber in Resident Evil 4.
How to solve the Castle Sword puzzle The first thing you'll notice about this puzzle is that there are four murals of the knight, but only three swords to pick up in this room. The last sword is behind another locked gate, but this one you can open. The gate has three animals on it, an eagle, deer, and snake, which correspond to three different plates. As each one is activated, the symbols on the gate will light up to show you're on the right track. The deer can be activated by pulling the chain beside the gate, while the second two are on the other side of the gate to the right and need to be shot.
Gaming Resident Evil 4 has a couple of requests worth taking on to help you trade for some sweet loot, but "The Disgrace of the Salazar Family" is perhaps the most satisfying. The note to start this quirky sidequest can be found hanging right by the gondola at the beginning of Chapter 12, and it asks you to deface the portrait of Ramon Salazar in the throne room of the castle. It's an odd request for a survival horror game, but if we're being frank, the little jerk has it coming. We'll tell you where to find his portrait and how to deface it.
How to find and deface Ramon's portrait Ramon's portrait is found in the throne room of the castle, which means you'll need to do a bit of backtracking through some areas you've previously visited. You'll also run into a handful of challenging foes as you pass through the areas leading back to the throne room, so be prepared to put up a fight.
When you finally reach the throne room, you'll find Ramon's portrait hanging on the left wall of the room – a much smaller portrait compared to the others found on the back wall. Your first instinct may be to start slashing away at it with your knife or shooting bullets into his smug face, but the way to complete this request is actually a little more fun and juvenile than that.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
