Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing News Gaming Chromebooks with up to 144Hz panels have arrived, but they’re not what you think By Luke Larsen Close Google has announced three new Chromebooks specifically designed with cloud gaming in mind. Acer, Asus, and Lenovo each have their own models, each sporting an assortment of gaming features, such as 120Hz refresh rate screens, higher=resolution displays, RGB lighting, improved audio, and faster processors.
Of course, unlike a standard gaming laptop , these new Chromebooks don’t actually have hardware inside since they’re meant to game primarily using game streaming services.
Image used with permission by copyright holder So far, these Chromebooks are fully compatible with Nvidia GeForce Now , Amazon Luna+, and Xbox Cloud Gaming, giving access to over 1,400 games, more than 100 of which are free to play. These services were already supported on Chromebooks, but Google says these new devices are tailor-made to enhance the cloud gaming experience. GeForce Now, in particular, is announcing that it will bring 1600p 120Hz streaming to Chromebooks, which matches the panels on these new devices.
As for the laptops themselves, the names are as follows: The Acer Chromebook 516 GE, Asus Chromebook Vibe CX55 Flip, and the Lenovo IdeaPad Gaming Chromebook. While all three models have a similar target of supporting cloud gaming in ChromeOS, there are some key differences between the three.
Image used with permission by copyright holder First off, the Acer and Lenovo models both have anti-ghosting keyboards with four-zone RGB backlighting, while the Asus model is only anti-ghosting. The Asus model also has a different panel than the others, using a 16:9 aspect ratio screen with a 1080p resolution and 144Hz refresh rate. The Lenovo and Acer Chromebooks, on the other hand, have a 16:10 1600p display with a 120Hz refresh rate. The Asus model is also the only option that supports Wi-Fi 6 instead of the newer Wi-Fi 6E standard.
We now know the eye-watering price of Nvidia’s RTX 4090 gaming laptops Intel Arc Alchemist A730M falls flat once again — Should you be worried? Nvidia DLSS became a must-have piece of PC gaming tech The advantage to the Asus option, of course, is that it is a “Flip” Chromebook, meaning it can be used as a tablet or in tent mode.
All three Chromebooks come with different audio solutions, whether it’s the “force-canceling” speakers on the Acer Chromebook 516 GE or the four-speaker setup by Wave on the IdeaPad Gaming Chromebook.
All three Chromebooks come with at least 8GB of RAM , but feature different processor options, all from Intel’s 12th-gen Core processor lineup. The Lenovo IdeaPad Gaming Chromebook will start at $599 and includes the Core i3-1215U and 256GB of storage. The Acer Chromebook 16 GE, meanwhile, starts with a higher-powered Core i5-1240P and 256GB of storage for $650.
Asus did not provide configuration or price details, though Google did say that models start as low as $399. Three months of GeForce Now RTX 3080 Membership and Amazon Luna+ are included with any of these laptops, and some retailers will be bundling in a SteelSeries 3 Gaming mouse.
All three models will be available for purchase some time later in October.
Editors' Recommendations GeForce Now Ultimate is a winner, even halfway across the country GeForce Now upgrades to RTX 4080 for 4K 240Hz cloud gaming Intel hints at cloud gaming service to rival GeForce Now Nvidia opens up GeForce Now RTX 3080 tier to all, no pre-orders required Nvidia’s new GeForce Now plan delivers 1440p 120Hz game streaming to any device Amazon Chromebooks Cloud Gaming Google Chrome Laptops Microsoft Tech News Xbox Gaming Google Stadia wants to revolutionize the way you play video games, eliminating the need to buy powerful hardware or even download games. Instead, it offers instant access the second you want to play them.
Stadia is not alone in this field, however. It has many adversaries, and one of the most formidable is Nvidia’s GeForce Now service. Nvidia's alternative has received a lot of press, both good and bad. Is it a serious alternative? Let's find out! Computing Laptops and desktops running Nvidia's GeForce RTX 3000 graphics just got a new feature this year called Resizable BAR (base address registers). The feature arrived with the debut of the GeForce RTX 3060, and through software drivers coming in March, it will work across Nvidia's line of 3000 series GPUs on desktop and mobile.
For GeForce gamers, the added support for Resizable BAR means you'll get a performance boost in select games without having to upgrade to a more expensive GPU, which is definitely good news.
What is Resizable BAR? Computing Gamers holding off on purchasing a gaming laptop featuring Nvidia's RTX 3080 or RTX 3070 mobile GPUs for a more affordable option are now in luck. Starting this week, Nvidia announced that gaming notebooks featuring entry-level GeForce RTX 3060 mobile GPU will start to ship. Nvidia had debuted all three mobile 3000-series cards earlier this year at CES, noting that the laptop variants run the same Ampere architecture found on the company's desktop graphics cards.
Laptops powered the RTX 3060 graphics cards feature 3,840 CUDA cores along with 6GB of GDDR6 memory and a 192-bit wide memory bus. A major change this year is that Nvidia isn't requiring laptop manufacturers to explicitly state whether gaming notebooks use a Max-Q or Max-P design, which will likely lead to confusion on the market as gamers try to decipher which design variant their particular laptop model will be using.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
