Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Nvidia at CES 2023: RTX 4090 mobile, 4070 Ti, GeForce Now updates By Jacob Roach Close Nvidia’s CES 2023 presentation has wrapped, and we finally have all of the announcements from Team Green. Nvidia is bringing new GPUs to desktop and mobile, a slate of new games is receiving DLSS 3, and GeForce Now is finally getting an upgrade to Nvidia’s RTX 40-series GPUs.
RTX 40-series mobile The RTX 4070 Ti RTX 4080 coming to GeForce Now Nvidia Broadcast and RTX Video Super Resolution New DLSS 3 games Everything else Nvidia announced at CES 2023 To catch you up, here’s everything Nvidia announced at CES 2023.
RTX 40-series mobile Nvidia It was inevitable that Nvidia would release mobile graphics cards at some point, but we didn’t expect a GPU as monstrous as the RTX 4090 to show up in laptops. Nvidia is bringing its whole range to mobile, including the RTX 4090, and the first machines will start arriving as soon as February.
Here’s why I’m glad Nvidia might kill its most powerful GPU Even Nvidia’s partners don’t believe in the new RTX 4060 Ti Nvidia’s RTX 4060 might not be such a disappointment after all We’ll undoubtedly see specific models carrying these cards throughout CES. During the presentation, Nvidia showed off the Alienware x16 with the RTX 4090, but we expect dozens of machines throughout the show.
The RTX 4070 Ti Image used with permission by copyright holder In a surprise to no one, Nvidia reintroduced its i ll-fated 12GB RTX 4080 as the RTX 4070 Ti.
 The name and price are the only things different this time around, with Nvidia knocking it down from $900 to a more reasonable $800. The specs remain the same, including 12GB of GDDR6X memory — despite the fact that Nvidia never mentioned that this product had already been announced.
For performance, the card looks like it will match last-gen’s RTX 3090 Ti, which is no small feat for an $800 GPU. It also supports Nvidia’s RTX 40-series features like Shader Execution Reordering and DLSS 3. We won’t have to wait long to see how it performs against current-gen options, as the GPU is releasing on January 5.
RTX 4080 coming to GeForce Now Image used with permission by copyright holder Nvidia moved onto its GeForce Now platform, announcing that it would soon replace its RTX 3080 plan with a new GeForce Now Ultimate plan. This new subscription uses the RTX 4080 instead, enabling 4K gaming at 240Hz and Nvidia’s DLSS 3 in the cloud.
The plan will start rolling out in late January depending on your region, and Nvidia expects to have it fully rolled out before the end of March. Existing RTX 3080 subscribers get an upgrade for free at the same $19.99 per month. Nvidia didn’t clarify if new subscribers will have to pay more, though.
Nvidia Broadcast and RTX Video Super Resolution Image used with permission by copyright holder Nvidia is bringing a slew of updates to its RTX features on desktop outside of gaming. For starters, the RTX Remix modding platform is entering early access “soon.” This is the tool that enabled Portal RTX , so we could see a flood of next-gen classics in the coming months.
In addition, Nvidia is adding a new feature to its Nvidia Broadcast tool. Using AI, Broadcast can readjust your eyeline to focus on the camera. It’s a bit uncanny in the side-by-side you can see above, but it’s an impressive tool if it works as well as Nvidia’s image suggests.
Finally, RTX Video Super Resolution is coming to Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge in February. This takes the AI upscaling principle of DLSS and applies it to videos in your browser, automatically enhancing low-resolution content. It’s only supported on Nvidia RTX 30-series and 40-series GPUs, though.
New DLSS 3 games Image used with permission by copyright holder Nvidia started off its presentation with a slew of new games receiving DLSS 3 in the upcoming months.
The Day Before, Witchfire, Throne and Liberty, Atomic Heart, and Warhaven are all slated to receive support for the upscaling tech, and some will come with ray tracing, as well.
We’ve known about several of these games for a while, but Nvidia showed off exclusive gameplay demo reels for all of them, including the hotly-anticipated Witchfire.
Everything else Nvidia announced at CES 2023 Image used with permission by copyright holder Nvidia also made some smaller announcements related to robotics and self-driving vehicles, which you can find below.
Nvidia Issac Sim for robotics includes new updates for collaborating in the cloud.
Foxconn is building electric vehicles based on Nvidia’s Drive Hyperion platform.
GeForce Now is coming to cars that are internet-enabled from BYD, Hyundai, and Polestar.
Mercedes-Benz is using Nvidia Drive and Omniverse to create digital twins and model self-driving vehicles.
Nvidia Drive Sim allows car brands to design and collaborate vehicles in a fully virtual environment, including virtual test drives.
Editors' Recommendations I tested AMD’s RX 7800 XT against Nvidia’s RTX 4070, and there’s a clear winner Nvidia’s peace offering isn’t working This mysterious Nvidia GPU is an absolute monstrosity — and we just got another look Nvidia’s RTX 4060 might arrive sooner than expected AMD might crush Nvidia with its laptop GPUs — but it’s silent on the desktop front CES 2023 Cloud Gaming Computing Nvidia's RTX 4060 Ti 8GB is one of Nvidia's three 4060 GPUs filling out the midrange segment of the Ada Lovelace generation. Sporting fewer cores than its predecessor, can it stand its ground against the rest of Nvidia's top graphics cards? Let's find out. We've had the chance to test the RTX 4060 Ti ourselves, and below, we'll tell you exactly how it stacks up against the RTX 4070.
Pricing and availability Computing Just as the RTX 4060 family of GPUs is being launched, a new report says Nvidia may be freezing production of its bigger brother, the RTX 4070. Sales of the RTX 4070 are reportedly so bad that the company has halted production in a desperate bid to turn things around. It’s just the latest bad news for a product that has been beset with problems almost from the day it launched.
As reported by Wccftech, the production stoppage is set to last until June, by which time Nvidia will be hoping sales have picked up. It’s apparently an extension of an earlier production slowdown, which reportedly began shortly after the RTX 4070 launched in April.
Computing In a surprising twist, Nvidia might be releasing not one, but three graphics cards. They all fall under the same RTX 4060 umbrella, although two of them are RTX 4060 Ti models.
This marks a strong entry into the midrange segment for Nvidia, with one of the cards addressing a significant concern -- low VRAM. Should AMD be worried about losing even more business to Team Green? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
