Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features GeForce Now Ultimate is a winner, even halfway across the country By Jacob Roach Close Nvidia’s GeForce Now cloud gaming service has always been among the best game-streaming services on the market, but how does it hold up when you’re not near a data center? Nvidia gave me a chance to try out the new Ultimate tier, fitted with its “RTX 4080” capabilities , but there was a slight problem — I wasn’t near any of the data centers.
Seamless cloud gaming Still not perfect A perfect compliment to a gaming PC For this brief preview period, Nvidia only enabled a couple of data centers, one on the East Coast and another on the West Coast. I’m located in the dead center of the U.S., but Nvidia still gave me access. And after trying GeForce Now Ultimate, even halfway across the country, I came away extremely impressed.
Seamless cloud gaming Image used with permission by copyright holder Before getting into using GeForce Now, I need to clarify that no paying user will be in the position I was in for my preview period. Nvidia has nearly a dozen data centers spread across the U.S., so you’ll have something nearby. My situation is unrealistic, but it’s a compelling testament to Nvidia’s cloud gaming tech.
Intel’s upcoming iGPU might destroy both Nvidia and Apple M2 Nvidia RTX 4060 rumor claims even worse specs than the RTX 3060 We now know the eye-watering price of Nvidia’s RTX 4090 gaming laptops For the vast majority of my testing, I was around 40 to 50 milliseconds of network latency, which is just over the 40ms or lower Nvidia recommends for a smooth experience. Still, I didn’t have any problems, and the increased performance of the new RTX 4080 SuperPODs is a big reason why.
Even under poor network conditions, Nvidia’s features go a long way to reduce total system latency.
This new tier allows you to stream at up to 4K at 120 frames per second (fps) or 1080p at 240 fps (in select games). Higher frame rates don’t change the latency of your internet connection, but they do reduce the total latency in your gameplay experience. You’re seeing more frames every second, allowing you to respond faster.
This was clear when I tried out Apex Legends.
I’m not a highly competitive player, but I’ve dumped thousands of hours into first-person shooters, so I’m a solid representation of the average person playing these games. After a couple of games, I just forgot I was streaming from the cloud. That’s the higher frame rate combined with Nvidia’s Reflex latency tech at work — even under poor network conditions, these features go a long way to reduce total system latency.
I also tried out Cuphead and Blasphemous.
These games both have very tight windows for inputs, so precision is key. Still, I wasn’t missing parries or tight jumps. Part of the reason why is that GeForce Now Ultimate supports variable refresh rate (VRR) on any monitor that supports VRR, and it uses a variable codec for streaming.
In short, these two features mean you’re getting the latest frame of a game rather than seeing old or repeated frames with a static codec.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The real test for me, though, was Destiny 2.
I have 2,000 hours in Destiny 2 on Steam, and I know the feel of the game inside and out. It wasn’t perfect, with a slight delay between what my brain wanted to do and the inputs I was able to execute. Still, I was able to take on high-level content like Grandmaster Nightfall strikes and Raids without ruining the experience for other players on my team.
Even with a minor hiccup in Destiny 2, I’m comfortable saying that was due to my location. I had a flawless experience across the dozen or so games I tested, and under circumstances that are far worse than any subscriber will actually experience.
Nvidia is starting the rollout in Texas, California, and Germany, but it says it will add new cities to the list every week. If you’re outside of one of these locations, GeForce Now Ultimate will give you access to the RTX 3080 tier, but you’ll be upgraded to the RTX 4080 machines for free once Nvidia enables data centers in your location.
Still not perfect Image used with permission by copyright holder Nvidia has the latency aspect of cloud gaming down, but it’s still not the same as playing a PC game at your desk. And that largely comes down to the encoder that’s used for streaming the game.
The new GeForce Now Ultimate tier includes an AV1 encoder. In short, an encoder takes the raw video from the game and compresses it down into an easily-transmittable and readable format. AV1 is much better than previous-generation encoders, but it’s still not perfect.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, you can see the blockiness in what should be a smooth gradient of the sky. The same was true with fog in Warhammer 40,000 Darktide.
The latency of GeForce Now Ultimate can have you tricked that you’re playing natively on a PC, but these moments of encoding artifacts bring the experience back down to earth.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Fine detail in the distance also suffers, as you can see in Destiny 2 above. The distant branches and railings show up as blocky pixels. You don’t notice these individual elements while playing, but the encoding artifacts make the image look less sharp further away from the camera in large vistas like the ones present in Destiny 2.
I’m fine dealing with these artifacts — they don’t break the experience of playing, and the AV1 encoder is far ahead of what Nvidia was using before. It’s not the final destination, though.
The GeForce Now app still needs some work, too. Nvidia has done a lot with this app, and it includes some great features like automatic syncing with your Steam library and various library filters. It needs to go a bit further, though. For example, there’s no way to tell if your controller is connected, which sent me into a loop of closing and reopening a game twice during testing.
Similarly, launchers don’t always play nicely with GeForce Now. Nvidia has done a lot of work to improve compatibility over the last few years, but I still encountered a handful of games that I had to relaunch a few times to get the launchers to work. This was particularly an issue in games with multiple launchers like the Steam version of Jedi: Fallen Order.
A perfect compliment to a gaming PC Image used with permission by copyright holder Even if GeForce Now isn’t identical to using a local PC, it’s closer now than it has ever been. The latency improvements are astounding, and from a playability standpoint, I don’t have any issues using GeForce Now Ultimate to play even highly competitive games like Apex Legends and Rainbow Six Siege.
The encoder still isn’t perfect, even if it’s a stark improvement over the previous version, and the GeForce Now app still needs some extra features. But Nvidia has continued to improve its service at a torrid pace over the last few years, and I don’t see that stopping any time soon.
Overall, though, GeForce Now only makes sense if you already have a gaming PC.
 It pulls games from your Steam, Ubisoft, and Epic Games accounts, rather than offering a library of stream-able titles like Xbox Game Pass.
 It’s a perfect complement to a gaming PC , allowing you to play on your phone, laptop, and browser without losing any progress.
At $20 per month, the Ultimate tier is more expensive than Xbox Game Pass, but only by $5. It depends on how you want to play and the library of games you have access to, but one thing is for sure — Nvidia GeForce Now Ultimate provides the best experience that I’ve had with cloud gaming, even halfway across the country.
Editors' Recommendations Even Nvidia’s partners don’t believe in the new RTX 4060 Ti Not even Nvidia’s RTX 4090 can handle Star Wars Jedi: Survivor MSI’s last RTX 3090 Ti now looks better than ever, and you can get it for free GeForce Now upgrades to RTX 4080 for 4K 240Hz cloud gaming This stunning DIY gaming PC dream machine is made of glass Cloud Gaming Features PC Gaming Computing We've just had our first report of the connector on a Founders Edition RTX 4090 melting. If there was ever a small sliver of hope that Nvidia's own FE graphics cards would be safe from the melting problem, that hope is all gone now.
The cases of RTX 4090 meltdowns are starting to pile up, and yet, there has been no official word from Nvidia. Here's what we know about the latest report.
Computing The Nvidia drama just got worse as Tom's Hardware has reported on an Nvidia RTX 4090 power connector meltdown. This comes hot on the heels of stories of the GPU's 16-pin power adapter overheating and melting.
"Maybe the first burnt connector with native ATX3.0 cable," redditor u/nk950357 posted, along with a photo of a melted connector. The photo shows a 12VHPWR power connector from the RTX 4090's own native power supply. This doesn't appear to be a case of using a cheap third-party power supply.
Computing CableMod may have a fix for the melting issue affecting the RTX 4090. The company has unveiled the designs of its upcoming power adapters on Reddit, seeking the feedback of small form-factor PC owners.
The power adapter could help many owners of the RTX 4090, as well as the upcoming RTX 4080, stay safe from thermal issues caused by a melting cable -- provided that it works as advertised. But is it worth losing your warranty for? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
