Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News GeForce Now upgrades to RTX 4080 for 4K 240Hz cloud gaming By Monica J. White Close Nvidia announced a major upgrade coming to its GeForce Now cloud gaming technology. Soon enough, gamers will be able to stream some of their favorite titles at up to 4K and 240 frames per second, all thanks to the RTX 4080.
The update, which comes with a new membership tier, will also unlock Nvidia’s DLSS 3 and Reflex technologies for GeForce Now subscribers, and Nvidia promises unprecedented levels of performance.
Nvidia Nvidia is bringing its Ada Lovelace generation of GPUs to supercharge its own cloud gaming service. The company promises 64 teraflops (TFLOPs) of graphics power, which it claims is five times the performance provided by the Xbox Series X console.
As mentioned, the RTX 4080-powered GeForce Now will also deliver the full range of ray tracing powers found in Nvidia’s arsenal, all thanks to the latest DLSS 3.
 To add to that, Nvidia’s Reflex technology is also present and available to competitive gamers, with the option to play at up to 240 frames per second (fps) and a click-to-pixel latency below 40ms.
MSI’s last RTX 3090 Ti now looks better than ever, and you can get it for free GeForce Now Ultimate is a winner, even halfway across the country Nvidia RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti: picking the lesser of two evils Nvidia showed off the new technology in a couple of quick clips from Rainbow Six Siege.
 The clip shows that GeForce Now, in combination with Reflex, was able to run the game at 240Hz and 25ms — a huge step-up over the 60Hz, 71ms combo served up without Reflex.
The RTX 4080 will only be available in Nvidia’s new GeForce Now Ultimate membership, which will replace the previous top-tier RTX 3080. If you were paying for the RTX 3080 subscription tier, your membership will be upgraded to the new Ultimate tier automatically.
Only those who pay for the Ultimate membership will be able to benefit from Nvidia’s best graphics cards , which includes being able to stream games at up to 4K.
 Nvidia says that the existing GeForce RTX 3080 subscribers will receive the upgrade at no additional cost, meaning the membership will cost $20. It’s unclear whether new subscribers will be paying the same price, though.
Nvidia If you’re eager to upgrade, the good news is that you will likely be able to do it soon, but not quite yet — and depending on your location, you might have to wait longer. The initial availability will begin in late January, and the coverage will grow to include more data centers in North America and Western Europe throughout the first quarter of 2023.
Nvidia announced the RTX 4080 superpods during its CES 2023 keynote , alongside a bunch of other exciting products, such as the RTX 4070 Ti or the full range of RTX 40 laptop graphics cards , including a mobile version of the RTX 4090.
Editors' Recommendations Nvidia GeForce RTX 4070 vs. AMD Radeon RX 6950 XT: a close call Nvidia did AMD a huge favor by releasing the RTX 4070 Ti We now know the eye-watering price of Nvidia’s RTX 4090 gaming laptops Nvidia RTX 4070 Ti vs. AMD RX 7900 XT: Two odd choices for your next GPU Nvidia brings the mighty RTX 4090 to laptops at CES 2023 News CES 2023 Cloud Gaming Tech News Computing Nvidia's CES 2023 presentation has wrapped, and we finally have all of the announcements from Team Green. Nvidia is bringing new GPUs to desktop and mobile, a slate of new games is receiving DLSS 3, and GeForce Now is finally getting an upgrade to Nvidia's RTX 40-series GPUs.
To catch you up, here's everything Nvidia announced at CES 2023.
RTX 40-series mobile Computing Nvidia's RTX 4080 is already out in its desktop version, but all signs point to it soon being released as a laptop GPU. Some people have already gotten their hands on laptops equipped with one of Nvidia's best graphics cards, and we now know the benchmark scores of one such laptop.
The test spells good news for Nvidia's upcoming mobile GPU -- the RTX 4080 was able to beat the RTX 3080 by a whopping 42%. Here's what we know about the upcoming RTX 4080M.
Computing New leaks regarding the rumored RTX 4060 Ti have left many PC gaming enthusiasts scratching their heads. Not only does the GPU sound pretty unimpressive so far, but it also shows Nvidia's commitment to one strange choice -- the 12-pin power connector. Yes, the exact same one that's been getting so much bad press recently.
Seeing this bizarre decision makes me wonder -- is Nvidia's commitment to the high-end part of the market really the right way to go? A lukewarm response https://twitter.com/kopite7kimi/status/1602761028584247298 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
