Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Gaming Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best game-streaming services for 2023 By Joseph Yaden and Gabe Gurwin Close Streaming is the newest way we consume media, and while it has caught on across film, TV, and music, it still has some catching up to do in the video game space. Still, there are some video game streaming services that have made significant strides toward ubiquity such as Xbox Game Pass , PS Plus , and even some on PC. Other services like Google Stadia haven’t garnered the same amount of success, failing to capture an audience before eventually shuttering.
While there certainly are fewer popular game streaming services than before, there’s a handful you’ll want to be aware of depending on what you’re looking for. With that in mind, these are the best video game streaming services for 2023.
Xbox Game Pass (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PC*) The other services on our list rely on streaming technology to deliver your games, but Microsoft’s Xbox Game Pass works a little differently. For $10 per month, a subscription to Xbox Game Pass gives you access to more than 100 games, and you download them onto your Xbox One or Xbox Series X/S storage device just like you would with any other digital title.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
This means you don’t have to worry about your internet speed affecting the quality of your gaming experience, and even if you lose your connection, you’ll still be able to play games, so long as you remain a member.
And the games — the games.
 Xbox Game Pass has perhaps the best library of any service on this list. From Halo: The Master Chief Collection to Gears 5 , Forza Horizon 5 , Microsoft Flight Simulator 2020 , and Yakuza Like a Dragon , Xbox Game Pass has plenty of incredible games to enjoy. The service isn’t limited to Microsoft-published games, either, with a variety of third-party games also available.
The kicker, however, is Microsoft’s policy for future Xbox exclusives.
 All first-party Microsoft games are included with an Xbox Game Pass subscription at no extra charge on launch day. That means games like Forza Motorsport , Starfield , Redfall , and Stalker 2: Heart of Chornobyl will all be available on day one at no additional cost.
*Only Xbox Play Anywhere games are also available on PC through Xbox Game Pass.
PlayStation Plus (PS4, PS5, PC) Formerly known as PS Now, Sony has folded its streaming and subscription-based game library into its successful PS Plus platform. This makes it far more approachable, not just from a cost perspective, but in terms of the user experience as well.
Sony has some of the best first-party video games around, but you previously needed to own one of the company’s consoles to be able to play them. With the new PlayStation Plus, you can play a wide variety of exclusive PlayStation games from your PC, as well as PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 4 consoles.
On PC, all you need is a DualShock 4 controller with either a wireless adapter or USB mini cable (or a DualSense controller ), as well as a PlayStation Network account and at least 5Mbps of internet download speed. PS4 and PS5 users need the same internet speed on their game console, and with either a seven-day free trial or a paid subscription, you’re ready to play some of the best PlayStation exclusives. For PS4 and PS5 players, a PlayStation Plus subscription includes full access to multiplayer support, along with plenty of other perks. Your save files will be compatible with PC, PS5, and PS4.
The service added a feature included with Xbox Game Pass that give you the ability to download games and play them directly on your system. More than 300 PlayStation games are eligible for download and support DLC and other features you would get in the standard digital versions.
PlayStation Plus features some older PlayStation exclusives, including the first three Uncharted games, Killzone: Shadow Fall , The Last of Us , Until Dawn , God of War III: Remastered, and Bloodborne.
 The service also supports a number of third-party games, such as Dishonored , the Batman: Arkham games, the BioShock trilogy, and Saints Row IV.
New games are added every month, and the full catalog includes more than 700 titles. PlayStation Plus comes in the form of three different tiers: PS Plus Essential ($10 per month), PS Plus Extra ($15 per month), and PS Plus Premium ($18 per month). Each of these tiers offers various perks you’ll want to be aware of when diving into the service. For instance, the Essential membership simply gives you access to online play and two monthly downloadable games, Extra grants access to a catalog of 400-plus PlayStation games, while Premium gives you older games in addition to the perks from the lower tiers.
While PS Plus still takes a back seat to Xbox Game Pass, it’s nice to see Sony making strides to improve its service.
GeForce Now (PC, Mac, Nvidia Shield) Own a Mac, Nvidia Shield, or a low-end PC, but want to play the latest AAA games? With GeForce Now , you can play the latest and greatest from major publishers without having to worry about your computer catching fire or, worse, running Bootcamp.
The following support GeForce Now: MacOS PC Window PC Chrome OS Shield Browser Android iOS Safari Android TV LG TV GeForce Now is not a content service like many of the other services on our list. You have to purchase the games you want to play through a digital store, such as Steam, Epic Games Store, or Blizzard’s Battle.net. Once you’ve installed the app on your machine, GeForce’s cloud-based processors will allow you to run the game on any device, independent of their specs.
The service requires a higher internet download speed than you might expect — 15Mbps minimum and 25Mbps are recommended — and you must have MacOS 10.11 or higher or Windows 7 64-bit (though the latest version of Windows 10 is recommended) or later in order to run it.
Either an Ethernet connection or a Wi-Fi connection using a 5GHz router is required, and you can use either a mouse-and-keyboard setup or one of several gamepads. Sessions are capped at between six and eight (depending on membership) hours per player before you have to start a new one. This is to keep the servers available for other players.
GeForce now is compatible with a huge assortment of games, though you do have to buy them to use them with the service. The list includes Fortnite, Cyberpunk 2077 , The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, Apex Legends, Control , and No Man’s Sky to name a few. GeForce Now has exited beta testing and is available in three different tiers.
The free version offers standard access with a one-hour play session cap. The $10-per-month Priority option gives priority access, extended six-hour sessions, and enables RTX. There’s also the Ultimate option that costs $20 per month, and offers all the benefits of the Priority version, but adds longer eight-hour play sessions, 4K resolution, and up to 120 frames per second (fps).
Xbox Cloud Gaming GeForce Now isn’t the only service that lets you play console-quality games regardless of your location. Microsoft first unveiled its Project xCloud (now known as Xbox Cloud Gaming ) service in 2018, and it aims to eliminate the hardware barrier between its library of games and potential players.
Using Microsoft’s 54 Azure data centers, Xbox Cloud Gaming allows users to stream games originally made for Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and PC on their device of choice. Everything — including Xbox One, Xbox Series X, PC, mobile phones, and tablets — is supported, and you are able to access your games wherever you have a network connection. You can use your own Xbox console as a server through Xbox Cloud Gaming without having to pay at all.
Unlike Stadia, which tied your controller via a Wi-Fi connection, Xbox Cloud Gaming does so via Bluetooth, which theoretically will lead to lower latency during gameplay. Xbox One and Series X controllers made after 2016 will be supported on your device of choice, and you will also have access to custom touch control interfaces when gaming on a mobile device.
More than 100 titles are available to stream on an Android phone or tablet, PC, or Xbox console. You can also use it on a Smart TV through the Game Pass app. And as of 2021, Microsoft announced that Xbox Cloud Gaming will run on Xbox Series X hardware, leading to 1080p resolution at up to 60 fps.
Since Xbox Cloud Gaming is built on the same backbone as Xbox Live Gold and the Xbox Play Anywhere program, it supports cross-platform cloud save data. This means that if you are playing a game on your Xbox One or Xbox Series X and need to leave, you can pick up your mobile device and resume your progress.
The coolest thing about Xbox Cloud Gaming is that it will tie to Xbox Game Pass Ultimate, which costs $15 a month, and gives you access to all the benefits of Xbox Game Pass and Games With Gold (as well as a Gold subscription to play online with others). So, Xbox Game Pass Ultimate subscribers will gain access to Xbox Cloud Gaming at no additional cost — and it’s something Microsoft is aiming to be as ubiquitous as possible, regardless of if you own an Xbox console or not. Microsoft wants there to be fewer boundaries, giving players access to games without needing to fork over hundreds of dollars on a console.
Amazon Luna It seems many companies are trying the gaming subscription business model. In 2020, Amazon launched its own gaming subscription service called Luna , which allows users to stream games from the cloud. Today, Amazon Luna offers around 100 games, many of which are published by Ubisoft, such as Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, Watch Dogs: Legion , Immortals Fenyx Rising , and Far Cry 6.
Amazon Luna has a few different price points for various subscriptions usable on Windows PC, Mac, Fire TV, iPhone, iPad, and select Android devices. You can play games on the service with a dedicated Amazon Luna controller or any compatible gamepad, such as an Xbox controller, DualShock 4, DualSense, or even a mouse and keyboard.
You’ll need an internet connection speed of at least 10Mbps to stream games at 1080p or 35Mbps to stream games at 4K. However, the company has implemented an option for 720p, which has a lower internet speed requirement. Therein lies the issue with many streaming services. The premise sounds appealing, but to effectively play many modern games at high resolutions, internet speeds need to be fast, which isn’t a viable option in many areas, even in the U.S.
In terms of price point, there are multiple options, but Luna works differently from other services mentioned so far. There’s Luna+ for $10 per month, which includes a wide variety of modern games; Ubisoft+ for $18 per month, featuring only Ubisoft games; Jackbox Games for $5 per month, featuring a collection of party games; and Prime Gaming, included with Amazon Prime memberships. Check the landing page to see which plan is right for you.
Nintendo Switch Online Finally, let’s briefly touch on Nintendo Switch Online. This isn’t technically a streaming service, but the premise is similar enough to Xbox Game Pass and PS Plus that it’s worth mentioning. For $20 per year (or $50 per year for the Expansion Pack ), Nintendo Switch Online subscribers gain access to online play for Switch games, just like Xbox Live. But beyond that, Nintendo grants subscribers an ever-expanding library of NES, SNES, Sega Genesis, and N64 games, some of which have been updated to include online play.
While the list of playable games is arguably lackluster , the fact that it’s so much less expensive than its competitors make sit an easier pill to swallow. At the end of 2021, Nintendo announced Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack , giving players access to a list of N64 and Sega Genesis games, along with Nintendo Switch DLC expansions for $50 per year. This was a welcome inclusion, though many believed its price was too expensive. Still, it’s a good deal if you’re someone who likes to play Nintendo Switch DLC such as the Animal Crossing: New Horizons Happy Home Paradise , or the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe Booster Pack.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy The best PS5 games for 2023 All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond One of the best gaming laptops you can buy is $330 off right now Computing Mobile Best Products Cloud Gaming Microsoft Sony Sony PlayStation Xbox Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Gaming The prices of games for the PlayStation 5 have steadily increased, with the best PS5 games costing $70 for base editions and more than $100 for special editions. Fortunately, with the arrival of Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023 and the return of Prime Day deals, other retailers are also offering PS5 game deals. One of the top sources for discounts is Best Buy, which has slashed the prices of some of the best RPGs for PS5 and best PS5 games for kids. We've selected our top picks from the sale, but you should also take a look at what else will catch your eye.
To start us off, we have some of the most popular games on sale right now, such as Elden Ring for Gaming It may be Prime Big Deal Days, but that doesn't mean other online retailers aren't getting into the sales holiday spirit. Right now, Best Buy is piggybacking on some Prime Day deals with discounts on a wide variety of Nintendo Switch games. There are only two days of this online sale at Amazon, and Best Buy will probably cut their deals off on Wednesday night too, so grab a couple of titles before you have to pay full price again.
What to buy in Best Buy's Nintendo Switch game deals Among the cheapest games that are available in Best Buy's ongoing sale include strategic Fire Emplem Warriors: Three Hopes (digital code) for the Nintendo Switch OLED model, which is Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
