Cohere Website For Business Docs Research Cohere Team Turbocharge Your Chatbot with Intent Recognition For Business Share: Say Goodbye to Keyword-Based Chatbots and Embrace Cohere's NLP-Powered Conversational Intelligence TL;DR: Boost your chatbot's capabilities with Cohere's intent recognition and text generation. Provide an unparalleled chatbot experience that understands customer queries with speed, accuracy, and nuance. Make your chatbot more efficient and satisfying for your customers, while freeing up your support team to focus on complex tasks.
The Power of Intent Recognition and Text Generation with Cohere Communicating with a chatbot can often be a frustrating experience when it doesn't understand our questions or responds with irrelevant information. Enter Cohere - a game-changing solution that uses Natural Language Processing (NLP) to help chatbots understand the intent behind unique phrases and tonality, providing more accurate and efficient responses to customer queries.
Gone are the days of basic keyword recognition. Cohere's models are trained on billions of sentences, allowing them to excel at intent recognition tasks and power sophisticated chatbots that deliver a great user experience.
Improve intent recognition in chatbot conversations Communicating with a chatbot can be a frustrating experience when we don’t ask questions in a way that the bot expects. Natural language processing (NLP) can help bridge the gap.
Cohere helps chatbot applications understand the meaning behind a unique turn of phrase or the tonality of a reply, allowing the bot to address a customer’s needs with greater speed and accuracy.
Get started with Cohere Contact our sales team for more information Keywords aren’t enough.
Many chatbot platforms are powered by basic keyword recognition. This means that the bot’s ability to “understand” queries is dependent upon customers using very specific phrases.
Developers could augment this by painstakingly predicting the myriad ways that a customer could phrase a specific query, including slang, misspellings, and differences in context. However, that task would be time consuming, if not downright impossible Billions of examples Cohere’s models are trained on billions of sentences, allowing them to understand and recognize the intent behind a specific phrase.
Our models excel at intent recognition tasks and can power sophisticated chatbots that move beyond basic keyword recognition.
How Cohere can help Cohere: Continuously learning from billions of examples At the heart of Cohere’s enterprise-grade NLP platform are large language models trained on billions of words, enabling them to recognize and understand the meaning behind a specific phrase.
Cohere’s models excel at intent recognition tasks and can power sophisticated chatbots that deliver great user experiences.
Get started Contact sales Developers Cohere gives every developer easy access to NLP We’ve made an API that works with every stack. No matter your level of developer experience, the Cohere Platform makes it easy to integrate machine learning into your applications and systems with our Python, Node, and Go SDKs. Our versatile NLP platform offers three endpoints for generation, classification, or embedding text data at massive scale. Developers can then use Cohere's endpoints to handle specific tasks, such as text analysis, text classification, and topic labeling Read the Installation Guide Use Cohere’s Classify for intent recognition and text classification Starting from the same Transformer architecture as Google’s Search and Translate, Cohere’s Classify endpoint can read, understand, and label the intent behind unstructured customer queries with exceptional speed and accuracy. Developers can further finetune Cohere’s large language models with their own dataset per their business or industry.
Try it Now Read the Docs Here's how it works Set the road rules Define your core customer intent categories, and train Cohere’s Classify model by providing it with example customer queries for each category.
Read our Classify Guide Start the engine Classify then combines this custom understanding of your intent categories with a deep understanding of language and context provided by our large language models to create a finetuned model, ready to handle your customer data.
Learn how Get driving Every time a user enters a prompt into your chatbot, Cohere will classify the request by intent, allowing your bot to provide the most relevant answer back.
With Cohere’s Classify, your AI-powered chatbots or conversational tools can consistently and accurately detect the intent behind user requests — including compound queries with multiple data points to consider. As a result, your bots are more intelligent and your customers are more satisfied with their interaction with your business.
Get started Contact sales Ensure your chatbots speak the same language as your customers Making Cohere a part of your chatbot experience benefits both your customers and your team by Direct your agents where they’re needed By automating first-pass responses and routine tasks, customer support teams have more time to handle complex one-off or multi-threaded interaction Give your customers the answers they want By training chatbots to better understand customer queries, your customers can get accurate, timely information and your support team can improve their time to resolution metrics.
Make it personalized Ensure that all your customers are considered by finetuning and deploying Cohere to serve different needs.
Get started with Intent Recognition Integrating Cohere into your chatbot experience benefits both your customers and your team: Direct Your Agents Where They're Needed: Automate first-pass responses and routine tasks, freeing up customer support teams to handle complex interactions.
Give Your Customers the Answers They Want: Train chatbots to better understand customer queries, providing accurate, timely information and improving time to resolution metrics.
Make It Personalized: Fine-tune and deploy Cohere to serve different customer needs, ensuring everyone is considered.
Embrace Cohere's NLP-powered conversational intelligence and transform your chatbot into a powerful and efficient tool that delights your customers and empowers your team.
Ready to revolutionize your chatbot experience? Get started with Cohere today ! Contact Sales Try the Cohere Playground Lights, Camera, Action: Building a Multilingual Movie Recommender! Exploring the Deep World of NLP AI is Eating the World Keep reading Cohere — Nov 16, 2023 Cohere’s Enterprise AI Models Coming Soon to Microsoft Azure AI as a Managed Service Newsroom Seraphina Goldfarb-Tarrant , Maximilian Mozes — Nov 14, 2023 The Enterprise Guide to AI Safety For Business Cohere Team — Nov 03, 2023 Emerging Trends in Generative AI Research: A Selection of Recent Papers Research Cohere.com Get Started About Classify Generate Responsibility Documentation Careers
