Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? FTC v. Microsoft: 5 surprising revelations from the court hearing that you need to know By Tomas Franzese Close We have reached an inflection point in Microsoft’s efforts to acquire Call of Duty and World of Warcraft publisher Activision Blizzard as the FTC’s lawsuit to stop it went before a judge. Representatives from Microsoft, Sony, Nintendo, Google, and Nvidia chimed in during the hearing, as did a variety of analysts presenting data to help determine whether or not this acquisition will hurt competition in the console and cloud gaming markets.
Microsoft revealed its real cloud gaming motivation Activision regrets not putting Call of Duty on Nintendo Switch Xbox considered acquiring a lot of studios The cost of PlayStatation’s single-player AAA games revealed The Elder Scrolls VI is probably not releasing for another five years As the video game industry is quite buttoned-up and secretive, this trial has given us an unprecedented look behind the curtain at Xbox, PlayStation, and Activision’s motivations, past claims and mistakes they made, and more. In a case filled with revelations, these five details were a particularly illuminating look into the video game industry’s inner workings.
Microsoft revealed its real cloud gaming motivation Microsoft Since 2019, Microsoft has been one of the video game industry’s biggest purveyors of cloud gaming alongside the likes of Nvidia, Amazon, and Google. It previously claimed that its primary goal with this was to get its hardcore games like Halo in front of as many people as possible, but this trial has revealed a secondary motivation. Microsoft hoped cloud gaming would give them an edge in the mobile gaming market, where Xbox has struggled to establish itself.
“We built xCloud knowing that on Xbox we have many games that run on our console,” Head of Xbox Phil Spencer explained.
 “There are many users around the world that have phones that aren’t able to play those games, nor will they be. Our strategy was to put consoles in our data centers to stream those consoles to a mobile phone, so if someone wanted to play Halo on a mobile phone, they would have access to those games through streaming.
It didn’t work out that way, though. Xbox’s VP of Game Creator Experience, Sarah Bond, testified that the most common use for cloud gaming is not mobile play but console players trying out a game before or during a download. Because cloud gaming is a sticking point for the CMA, Microsoft wants to downplay its relevancy to Xbox’s business, but, as I wrote in April , it might be too late for them to do that. Even if cloud gaming’s future is as a supplementary service on consoles, it’s sticking around as one of the central aspects of dissent against the acquisition. The future of cloud gaming is just playing out in a way no one predicted when it re-rose to prominence four years ago.
Activision regrets not putting Call of Duty on Nintendo Switch Activision The Nintendo Switch has proven to be one of Nintendo’s most successful consoles ever, but Call of Duty games have been suspiciously absent from the platform since its release in 2017. Microsoft plans to bring Call of Duty to Nintendo systems if the acquisition goes through, so Activision Blizzard CEO Bobby Kotick was asked why the series wasn’t already on there. He admits that it was “bad judgment” on his part, likely coming off the underwhelming performance of Wii U.
“I made a bad judgment,” Kotick explained.
 “When I had seen the prototype of the Switch, it was different than when I saw the prototype of the Wii. I thought [the Wii] was the most extraordinary video game system ever created. When I saw the prototypes for Switch, I was concerned because they were trying to accomplish a lot with a console that also had a portable capability. I didn’t think it was going to be wildly successful. It’s probably the second most successful video game system of all time, so it was a bad decision on my part.” This is a rare look at a game publisher’s decision-making behind bringing a game or series to a new platform and explains why Call of Duty: Ghosts was the last game in the series to release for a Nintendo console. It doesn’t explain why Activision hasn’t tried to bring the series over since the Switch has been a proven success, though. Regardless, it will eventually come if Microsoft can acquire Activision Blizzard.
Xbox considered acquiring a lot of studios Image used with permission by copyright holder Xbox acquired or founded over 15 studios between 2018 and 2021, but this trial has revealed that those are far from the only studios Microsoft considered acquiring. Court documents revealed potential companies Microsoft was interested in acquiring around 2020. The most notable are Japanese publishers Sega and Square Enix, who Microsoft was actively trying to court around that time despite publicly claiming otherwise.
Those were far from the only studios it tried to acquire, though. Court documents revealed the full “consideration set” of studios that Microsoft was potentially interested in, based on previous development relationships and Xbox Game Pass and Steam data. Studio names on that list include Frostpunk’s 11 bit Studios, Silent Hill 2’s Bloober Team, Cyberpunk 2077’s CD Projekt Red, Warframe’s Digital Extremes, Elden Ring’s FromSoftware, Hitman’s IO Interactive, Yooka-Laylee’s Playtonic Games, Hades ’ Supergiant Games, Dying Light’s Techland, Blade Runner 2033: Labyrinth’s Annapurna Interactive, and more.
It’s a dense list filled with some of the game industry’s best talent and shows just how aggressive Microsoft wanted to be during the peak of its acquisition spree. Ultimately, the company settled on ZeniMax Media (Bethesda) and intends to add Activision Blizzard to its studio lineup. Basically, it looks like most rumors about who Microsoft was considering acquiring over the past several years were true in some way.
The cost of PlayStatation’s single-player AAA games revealed Sony Interactive Entertainment PlayStation has a reputation for making high-fidelity single-player action games that push the bounds of AAA gaming forward. That said, some court documents reveal that this wasn’t cheap. In one of the funnier moments surrounding the hearing, Sony had tried to redact a document with a Sharpie, but doing that made it possible for people to see through the redactions. Because of that, we learned the budgets of The Last of Us Part II and Horizon Forbidden West.
Naughty Dog’s critically acclaimed sequel cost $220 million to develop, according to Axios , while Horizon Forbidden West’s development cost $212 million. Those numbers don’t even seem to include marketing-related expenses, which would likely increase them further. It proves that modern AAA games aren’t cheap to make, with budgets on par with, and sometimes exceeding, that of blockbuster movies.
To those unfamiliar with the business side of the industry, it’s enlightening in making us understand why companies are trying to embrace microtransactions and multiplayer experiences. You’re much more likely to make a development budget like that back when your game encourages recurrent spending. Still, it also proves that if a talented team has enough resources and budget, they can craft a truly outstanding single-player experience.
The Elder Scrolls VI is probably not releasing for another five years Image used with permission by copyright holder Because Starfield and The Elder Scrolls VI were announced at the same showcase in 2018, there’s been a misconception that they’ve been in full production alongside each other since then and will be coming out pretty close to each other.
Todd Howard indicated this wasn’t the case in interviews surrounding June’s Starfield Direct, but comments from Microsoft during this trial confirm it. We’ve learned that it probably won’t even be out for another three to five years, the now somewhat standard ballpark to give for game development time.
“I think we’ve been a little unclear on what platforms it will launch on, given how far out the game is,” Phil Spencer explained.
 “It’s difficult for us right now to nail down exactly what platforms that game will launch on. As I said with Elder Scrolls VI , it’s so far out it’s hard to understand what the platforms will even be at this point. It’s the same team that’s finishing Starfield , which comes out this September. So we’re talking about it being likely five-plus years away.
Despite that statement, Microsoft’s lawyer later said an Elder Scrolls game will come out in 2026.
 It’s unknown who’s correct here, but either statement means that The Elder Scrolls VI likely won’t be released until nearly a decade after its reveal. It’s certainly a disappointing revelation for Elder Scrolls fans, who expected the game to be further along in development by now. Hopefully, the fact that Creation Engine 2 is now up and running with Starfield makes creating The Elder Scrolls VI a more streamlined process.
Editors' Recommendations Microsoft has acquired Activision Blizzard: What does that mean for you? Microsoft wins FTC case, removing Xbox’s biggest Activision Blizzard acquisition hurdle 5 features Call of Duty: Warzone 2.0 Season 3 needs to implement FTC files lawsuit to block Microsoft’s Activision Blizzard acquisition Microsoft offered Sony a 10-year Call of Duty deal for PlayStation, report says Cloud Gaming Features Microsoft Nintendo Nintendo Switch Xbox Gaming CEO of Microsoft Gaming Phil Spencer has confirmed that future Call of Duty titles will be part of Game Pass, but still come to PlayStation on the same day of release.
As the purchase of publisher Activision Blizzard by Microsoft continues forward, more details regarding how the new catalog of IP that Xbox will inherit will be handled are coming to light. The most notable part of the deal in the console space concerns the massive Call of Duty franchise, which has been a mainstay on bestselling games lists for over a decade straight. Sony previously had the marketing rights to the series before the purchase was set in motion, and recently made statements arguing that Xbox making the series exclusive would influence console purchasing decisions.
Gaming In the midst of the ongoing battle to get its $69 billion acquisition of Activision Blizzard approved by Brazil, Microsoft has accused Sony of paying for "blocking rights" to prevent developers from adding their games to Xbox Game Pass.
The company filed a claim to the South American country's Administrative Council for Economic Defense (CADE) on Tuesday, commenting that Sony has been actively trying to inhibit the growth of Game Pass by keeping certain games from appearing on Microsoft's game-streaming service. In the claim, Microsoft says Sony is paying developers to keep their games out of Game Pass out of exclusivity fears. In other words, it's concerned that some of the Activision Blizzard games that are on PlayStation Plus, like games in the Call of Duty series, may become a Game Pass exclusive once the deal closes -- a concern that Microsoft deems incoherent.
Gaming Over the past year, Activision Blizzard has completely reenergized its Call of Duty franchise. Last year's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare was a return to form, and with help from Call of Duty Warzone, the company is making it clear that it can hang with Apex Legends, Fortnite, and others.
Now, though, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare and Call of Duty Warzone are about to reach another crescendo with the release of season 4. Details are scant right now, but as the end of season 3 inches closer next week, rumors are trickling in on what to expect.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
