Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Google Stadia’s dedicated community faces heartbreak amid service closure By Carli Velocci Close The Google Stadia subreddit knew about the service’s shutdown just slightly ahead of the official announcement. Users had already been posting about the Stadia Store’s UI changes that day when somebody posted a screen they saw in the app about how the Stadia store was “now closed.” In a few minutes, the whole internet would know that Google had decided to shutter Stadia by January 18, 2023, and refund all hardware and game purchases.
Who plays Stadia? Stadia players are looking for answers Stadia wasn’t just a game platform. It built community What happens next? Stadia had a rocky launch and was never able to recover. So while the official Stadia Twitter account tried to squash rumors it was shutting down a few months ago, it couldn’t stop what people saw as inevitable. However, it still came as a huge shock to many in the Stadia community. While Google is offering refunds on purchases, it can’t fix what had become a tightly knit community of people who needed the failing platform to play.
“It’s easy to look back now and say, ‘I knew it’ that it was dead on arrival, and that people who invested deserve it. Most of the people who say that are lucky enough to afford alternative platforms. They don’t see that Google provided a solution to a problem that they probably didn’t know existed,” streamer ColourTV, who put nearly 6,000 hours into Red Dead Online on Stadia, explained.
You can now launch Game Pass, Luna titles through Google Search This Google Stadia exclusive is trapped on the service due to port ‘complexity’ Ubisoft and more offer ways to play purchased Google Stadia games elsewhere Now, they’re just left with questions. Will Google unlock Bluetooth on its controller so it doesn’t become a paperweight? Will games allow you to transfer your saves? Most importantly, is there anything out there like Stadia? Who plays Stadia? Dedicated Stadia players fall into one of two categories: The service was either their secondary gaming platform or their primary one. One user I talked to, Bunion L on Twitter, said it wasn’t his primary way to game, but he used it when he was away from home. Streamer ColourTV has a powerful PC but enjoyed using it to play games like Red Dead Redemption 2 between classes on his university campus. Since Stadia can be streamed to your phone or a PC with no extra software required, as long as you have an account and a decent internet connection, you can access it from almost anywhere.
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends Other users like Ricardo Batho, a Stadia streamer who also cohosted the Chat Stadia podcast, used it as their primary platform because it allowed him to play games in 4K without taxing his PC.
“I could go to my PC, but there’s limited space, and I have to deal with updates and downloads,” Batho tells Digital Trends. “I find the gameplay to tax my PC and GPU, unlike Stadia, which allows me to run 4K without making my PC sound like a power plant.” There were many great reasons to invest in Stadia, even if it’s not the main way you played. Stadia was a cheap and easy way to play AAA titles, whether you wanted to play on the highest settings with Stadia Pro or didn’t mind lower performance with the free tier. It also didn’t require any extra equipment or software to run. Users praised Stadia for allowing them to play games without waiting in endless queues for out-of-stock consoles or having to spend hundreds of dollars on PC components. Stadia Pro also offered up hundreds of games for subscribers. That meant you could play $60 games for just $10 per month.
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends “I had 200 games click to play with no storage, and I never had to wait for updates,” Batho explained. “Stadia runs in a window on a browser vs an application on my computer. A PC also taxes my CPU and GPU just to run a 4K game, whereas Stadia allows me to play hours of 4K gaming without taxing my CPU at all.” A lot of Stadia players also liked how the service allowed them to play more casually. Many users I saw in the subreddit were parents or other older folks who couldn’t afford games or didn’t have the time to play hundreds of hours in Assassin’s Creed , for example. ColourTV, who has over 5,000 subscribers on YouTube, said a lot of the people he met skewed older.
“Getting to know the community, I learned that it’s not the same as what I am used to as a gaming community. Most of the players are older than me, have families, lead busy lives, etc. I found it unique and interesting, and maybe an even less toxic experience with a more mature player-base,” he says.
Many of the people I talked to said they would just take their Google refund and just rebuy the games elsewhere. For others, it’s not so simple.
Stadia players are looking for answers Since the news broke on Friday, Stadia users have been wondering what’s next. For one, can they continue playing games from Stadia on other platforms? That’s up in the air at the time of this writing. Some developers like Ubisoft — Assassin’s Creed Odyssey was available as a demo when the service was just called Project Steam and the studio has had a close connection with the platform ever since — quickly assured players that they can bring their Stadia games to PC through Ubisoft Connect.
 Bungie is looking into “next steps” for its Destiny 2 Stadia players.
However, many studios don’t have answers just yet.
Cyberpunk 2077 players are begging CD Projekt Red to open up cloud saves (one Reddit user said they cared “ more about my save game than a game refund ”). In one of the most extreme anecdotes, ColourTV reached out to Rockstar about transferring his character with thousands of hours on it and was provided with a non-answer from support. “This was expected of course,” he tweeted.
No you don&#39;t understand how seriously pissed off I am pic.twitter.com/UZ157WLmru &mdash; Colour (@ItsColourTV) September 29, 2022 ColourTV can just use his PC to play games now, and other users are discussing where to go once Stadia officially goes offline. Thankfully, since Stadia, other cloud-based video game services have hit the market, from Xbox Cloud Streaming to Nvidia GeForce Now and Amazon Luna. None are perfect alternatives, though. For example, Luna isn’t available outside the U.S., and Xbox Cloud Streaming, which comes with Xbox Game Pass Ultimate, costs $15 per month, which is steep considering you could use Stadia for free if you didn’t need 4K, 60 frames per second (fps). Plus, some like Batho say that Xbox’s cloud streaming software has higher latency and more bugs than Stadia.
Thanks to the refund, many can buy a console (if they can find one) and buy into those respective services for cloud gaming. However, there’s one thing that something like Xbox Game Pass Ultimate can’t replace.
Stadia wasn’t just a game platform. It built community A Stadia user who goes by Original Penguin created the Stadia Game Database , a comprehensive breakdown of every game on the service. It includes everything from maximum possible resolutions to store links and even pixel count. It was a project he took on after interacting with the community and realizing there was no hub for this information. Since the Stadia announcement, he also put together a spreadsheet to help people track which games they have to rebuy after the service shuts down.
“What kept me in the community was the community itself,” OriginalPenguin said. “We started out as a really tight-knit group, with everyone supporting everyone else. Over time, the group drifted apart, but the support was still there.” Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Everybody I talked to for this piece highlighted the Stadia community as one of the reasons to stick around despite all of the service’s flaws. It was small, but that meant many people formed lasting relationships. Stefan from the German Cloudplay podcast said that even when the number of games released on the platform started to dwindle, he could rely on the community to keep him interested.
“Until a few months ago, Stadia was my number one. But the fewer titles are released or the fewer games that interest me … then you look elsewhere,” Stefan tells Digital Trends. “No other service comes close to the community and the simplicity of the platform. That’s also part of the truth.” Batho, who got in at launch with the Founders Edition, helped lead a small community on Stadia, where he played a lot of Destiny 2 but tried out any game he could. He met his podcast cohost through these interactions during the pandemic and even attended his wedding.
“In the past year, the community of Stadia was so strong,” he said. “The Stadia Community was a family. We all knew each other through Stadia and thru the #stadia, specifically through Twitter and YoTtube … We are all brokenhearted. We are all grieving and the main loss is the connection we felt with the community. We knew we were a little town.” Every video game platform has its community, and Stadia’s was obviously much smaller than Xbox’s, for example, but ColourTV noted that it was mostly positive. He attributes this to an understanding between the players.
“Of course, every community has its own bad apples or people you do not share the same opinion with,” he explained. “But overall, they believed Stadia provided a good solution for them. And the community shared that belief.” What happens next? Stadia users have a few months to go before the servers go offline, and a lot can change in that time. Hopefully, Google will unlock the controller’s Bluetooth, and studios will enable cloud saves or other solutions.
But Stadia as a service had been on the way out for a while now. Once it stopped investing in first-party games, it was only a matter of time before it went the way of other Google experiments like Google Plus. Thomas Meyer, who covered Google Stadia for Android Central (full disclosure: I used to work for Android Central), noted that it wasn’t a shock considering how few reviews there were of Stadia-specific versions of games. His Saints Row review back in August was the first Stadia critic rating on Metacritic in around seven months.
Like other dead services, the community is expected to go along with it, at least to some extent. In the meantime, they can go on Reddit or into streams to figure out what happens next.
Interview answers were edited for grammar and clarity.
Editors' Recommendations Baldur’s Gate 3 could have saved Google Stadia Google Stadia has started issuing refunds — here’s what to look for Gylt, Google Stadia’s first exclusive, is coming to other platforms This wireless workaround will give your Google Stadia controller new life Google Stadia shutting down in January and users are getting full refunds Cloud Gaming Features Google Gaming Although I can be tough on cloud services that have faults, I actually do enjoy cloud gaming on Google Stadia and Xbox Game Pass Ultimate quite a bit, and I’m excited about the technology’s potential for both players and developers. Currently, most of my cloud gaming takes place on my phone, but Logitech and Tencent Games want me to start playing cloud games on a new device. In October, the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld starts rolling out, and it hopes to become the way to play cloud games.
During a hands-off preview of the device, Logitech certainly delivered on highlighting an Android-powered device with two native cloud gaming apps that players can use to enjoy games with a Wi-Fi connection. At $350, though, it feels like a solution for a niche usage problem that similarly priced devices already solve. I could see myself enjoying this device if I wanted to stream a video game from my bed or a room without my TV and consoles. Unfortunately, it seems outclassed by just the ability to stream games on a midrange-or-better phone, something anyone reading this can likely do already.
What is the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld? From a technical perspective, the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld contains specs that wouldn’t feel out of place on a mid-range mobile device. It features a Qualcomm Snapdragon 720G octa-core 2.3GHz CPU, as well as 4GB of LPDDR4x RAM and 64GB of internal storage that people can expand with an SD card. The display is a 7-inch IPS multi-touch screen that displays at a 1080p resolution with a 60Hz refresh rate. Players can listen to audio through its stereo speaker, a 3.5mm stereo audio jack, or a Bluetooth 5.1 connection.
What sets it apart is that Logitech built the controllers into the device, giving it a Nintendo Switch-like look. It has the d-pad, analog joysticks, buttons, bumpers, and triggers expected of a modern controller, plus a Home button to bring players to the home screen and a “G button” that will access more system-specific settings. Players will be able to remap the controls however they wish, though. On top of that, players can expect the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld to have haptics feedback, a gyroscope, a light sensor, and even a built-in stereo microphone with echo canceling and noise suppression support.
These aren’t top-of-the-line specs by any means, but Logitech made this choice because the device is made for gaming natively on the device. It also allowed them to get the device’s weight down to only 463 grams and give it a battery life of around 12 hours (it uses USB-C to charge), which has never been seen on a gaming handheld. Think of the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld as an Android 11 tablet with built-in controllers, uniquely tailored UI, and access to native Xbox Cloud Gaming and Nvidia GeForce Now, and Google Play Store apps.
Gaming Google Stadia is taking a different approach to the way players demo games. The game streaming platform will be testing an achievement-based demo system, allowing people to preview games for an unlimited amount of time until they unlock certain achievements.
According to a report from Game Developer, Stadia will test the achievement-based game trial system in Control and Sniper Elite 4 next week. However, it has given only 50% of players the ability to demo games until they unlock an achievement, while the other 50% are still playing demos with time constraints. The test was given to a limited number of people so that Stadia could examine the effects of demoing games under a different trial length metric.
Audio / Video Google and LG today announced that they're giving three months of access to Stadia Pro to new and existing owners of LG TVs.
Stadia is Google's cloud-based gaming service that works with various devices such as LG televisions, Chromecast with Google, and other supported hardware. There's nothing to plug in — you just pair a controller and get things going with the Stadia app on your phone, and you're good to go.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
