Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Play Xbox on the go with the Logitech G Cloud — now $50 off By Jennifer Allen Close Logitech If you love being able to play console games and mostly anything else while on the move, all thanks to cloud gaming, you’ll love this deal at Amazon. Today, you can buy the Logitech G Cloud for $300, saving you $50 off the regular price of $350. A sweet discount on still fairly new technology, it’s ideal for playing your favorite games on your commute or even sneaking a quick session from work. Here’s what else it has to offer or you can just hit the buy button to get straight to purchasing.
Why you should buy the Logitech G Cloud While the Logitech G Cloud isn’t perfect due to its reliance on a Wi-Fi connection, it’s perfect for hardcore cloud gaming fans. It supports multiple cloud gaming services including Xbox Cloud Gaming and Nvidia GeForce NOW but you can also use remote play via the Xbox Remote Play app and the Steam Link app. That increases your gaming options substantially compared to just regular portable gaming routes, with an Xbox Game Pass membership particularly useful here.
The Logitech G Cloud has a 7-inch full HD 1080p touchscreen with a 60Hz refresh rate so it’s a good size for being able to see what you’re playing. It also has stereo audio with dual microphones. The device looks a lot like a Nintendo Switch so it’s simple to control the game you’re playing with all the controls you’d expect.
It’s also lightweight at just 463g with a great battery life of over 12 hours ensuring you can play all day long. Besides standard controls, it also has haptic feedback, a gyroscope, and you can remap all the buttons. Designed with cloud gaming in mind, it also supports Wi-Fi speeds of up to 800+Mbps over a 5GHz connection so you won’t have to worry about slowdown once you find a fast connection.
For comfy gaming away from your gaming den, TV or monitor, the Logitech G Cloud is a great addition to your gaming arsenal. It’s usually priced at $350 but right now, you can buy it for $300 at Amazon. A saving of $50, if you’ve been considering buying one for a while, this is your chance. Snap it up now and you could even be playing near the pool (if the pool has a Wi-Fi connection) this summer.
Editors' Recommendations PS5 Black Friday deals: consoles, games, and accessories Best Black Friday gaming headset deals on Logitech, Corsair, and more One of Logitech’s best wireless gaming headsets is 20% off This Samsung 34-inch WQHD ultrawide gaming monitor is $600 off This Samsung 43-inch 4K gaming monitor is 50% off right now Deals Amazon Cloud Gaming Computing While some of the best laptops are designed to cater to different types of users and purposes, you're going to need a gaming laptop if you want to play the best PC games. That's because these machines are designed to meet the strict requirements of gamers, which also makes them a bit more expensive. Fortunately, there's no shortage of gaming laptop deals online, and to help you make your choice, we've rounded up some of the top offers right here. Whether you're on a tight budget or you're aiming for a powerful machine, there's something here for everyone.
HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded.
Computing If you're on the hunt for gaming laptop deals, here's one that comes with our recommendation -- the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 for just $1,100 from Best Buy, for savings of $330 on its original price of $1,430. We expect this bargain to sell quickly because this is one of the top gaming laptops in the market right now, so if you're interested, there's no time to waste. Proceed with the purchase right now, because the more you delay, the higher the chances that you'll miss out on this discount.
Why you should buy the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 gaming laptop The Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 is in our roundup of the best gaming laptops as the best portable gaming laptop that you can buy. It features a 14-inch screen that's slightly smaller than the display of most of its peers, but it more than makes up for the size with QHD resolution and a 165Hz refresh rate. This also allows the device to stay small, with thickness of just 0.73 of an inch and weight of only 3.64 pounds. If you want your gaming laptop with you at all times so you can squeeze in some gaming whenever the situation allows, the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 will be perfect for you.
Gaming day Grabbed one of the Nintendo Switch deals going on right now and want to add the best game for the system? Walmart has The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom on sale for only $48 so you save a massive $22 off the regular price of $70. Nintendo games don't always see deep discounts so this is the perfect time to snap up one of the games of the year for less. Here's what you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
