Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Logitech made its own lightweight handheld built for cloud gaming By Tomas Franzese Close Although I can be tough on cloud services that have faults , I actually do enjoy cloud gaming on Google Stadia and Xbox Game Pass Ultimate quite a bit, and I’m excited about the technology’s potential for both players and developers. Currently, most of my cloud gaming takes place on my phone, but Logitech and Tencent Games want me to start playing cloud games on a new device. In October, the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld starts rolling out, and it hopes to become the way to play cloud games.
What is the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld? Too niche to be worth it During a hands-off preview of the device, Logitech certainly delivered on highlighting an Android-powered device with two native cloud gaming apps that players can use to enjoy games with a Wi-Fi connection. At $350, though, it feels like a solution for a niche usage problem that similarly priced devices already solve. I could see myself enjoying this device if I wanted to stream a video game from my bed or a room without my TV and consoles. Unfortunately, it seems outclassed by just the ability to stream games on a midrange-or-better phone, something anyone reading this can likely do already.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What is the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld? From a technical perspective, the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld contains specs that wouldn’t feel out of place on a mid-range mobile device. It features a Qualcomm Snapdragon 720G octa-core 2.3GHz CPU, as well as 4GB of LPDDR4x RAM and 64GB of internal storage that people can expand with an SD card. The display is a 7-inch IPS multi-touch screen that displays at a 1080p resolution with a 60Hz refresh rate. Players can listen to audio through its stereo speaker, a 3.5mm stereo audio jack, or a Bluetooth 5.1 connection.
What sets it apart is that Logitech built the controllers into the device, giving it a Nintendo Switch-like look. It has the d-pad, analog joysticks, buttons, bumpers, and triggers expected of a modern controller, plus a Home button to bring players to the home screen and a “G button” that will access more system-specific settings. Players will be able to remap the controls however they wish, though. On top of that, players can expect the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld to have haptics feedback, a gyroscope, a light sensor, and even a built-in stereo microphone with echo canceling and noise suppression support.
PC Game Pass will leverage GeForce Now in the coming months You can now launch Game Pass, Luna titles through Google Search Tencent and Logitech are making a cloud gaming handheld device These aren’t top-of-the-line specs by any means, but Logitech made this choice because the device is made for gaming natively on the device. It also allowed them to get the device’s weight down to only 463 grams and give it a battery life of around 12 hours (it uses USB-C to charge), which has never been seen on a gaming handheld. Think of the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld as an Android 11 tablet with built-in controllers, uniquely tailored UI, and access to native Xbox Cloud Gaming and Nvidia GeForce Now , and Google Play Store apps.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Logitech stresses that its real purpose is as a cloud gaming device, not a device to install a bunch of apps on natively. That said, only Xbox Cloud Gaming and Nvidia GeForce Now will have apps tailored to the handheld at launch; Google Stadia and Amazon Luna use the already available Android apps. Another caveat is that the handheld only supports Wi-Fi connections. If you were hoping to take the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld on the go and use 4G or 5G , this device doesn’t allow that. Logitech claims that its research showed that most people use cloud gaming on Wi-Fi connections in their homes, but it is a notable limit to the appeal of a handheld as expensive as a Nintendo Switch or Xbox Series S.
Too niche to be worth it Like the Qualcomm Snapdragon G3x , this is a proof-of-concept idea, but it doesn’t make sense for most casual users. In practice, this is a $300+ device for people who like to play cloud games through Xbox Game Pass Ultimate and Nvidia GeForce Now in their house but don’t want to do it through their PC, phone, or the Samsung Gaming Hub.
 Logitech seems to think that’s a big enough market, but to me, that seems like a very niche scenario that could struggle to find broad appeal.
People already have phones that can access cloud gaming services and can get an excellent mobile gaming controller like the Razer Kishi V2 for under $100. Even when it comes to hardcore cloud gaming fans, I don’t know how many will feel the need to get a device like this, especially when Logitech doesn’t run a cloud gaming service of its own. Logitech tells Digital Trends that the real advantages of the device are its lack of frequent notifications, weight, and its 12-hour battery life.
But even then, phones are reasonably light, you can turn notifications off, and the required Wi-Fi connection means you’ll never really be that far from a place to plug it in while playing. Its screen is good but not ultra-impressive, and the fact that Google Stadia and Amazon Luna don’t have native apps on it yet either also stings.
Image used with permission by copyright holder For some, the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld might solve a particular problem and finally give them an easy way to immerse themselves in cloud gaming fully. Its controls and screen could also feel great to use once you go hands-on with it. That said, what I saw in this hands-off preview didn’t convince me that hardcore cloud gaming fans have much need for this device, especially when it’s not first-party, super technically impressive, or supportive of every significant cloud gaming app.
My opinion might change when I go hands-on, but right now, I’d still recommend those interested in cloud gaming put those $300 toward a Razer Kishi V2 and get a mid-range or flagship phone that can play lots of games natively and from the cloud. The Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld will cost $300 until October 17, when it will go up to $350. Currently, Logitech only plans to make the device available in the United States and Canada.
Editors' Recommendations Xbox has no plans to make its own handheld system, per leaked documents Microsoft pledges to bring Xbox PC games to Nvidia GeForce Now A Plague Tale: Requiem heading to GeForce Now with ray tracing Steam Deck vs. cloud gaming: How do they compare? Genshin Impact comes to GeForce Now in limited beta Amazon Cloud Gaming Features Google Microsoft Xbox Gaming Samsung is launching a new video game platform called Samsung Gaming Hub, which will be available on some of the manufacturer's 2022 smart TVs, including sets just announced at CES. The platform acts as a central hub for services like GeForce Now and Google Stadia, allowing players to access multiple cloud services in one place.
The service will launch in 2022, though no official date is set. Samsung smart TV owners will be able to access the gaming hub by pressing a "gaming" button in a TV's main navigation. Once in the app, players will be able to browse their recently played games, browse popular titles, and directly access services like Google Stadia in one place.
Audio / Video LG has announced that it is the first smart TV maker to debut a native app for Nvidia's GeForce Now online streaming gaming platform. The GeForce Now app will be available as a beta test on select 2021 TVs, including 4K OLED, QNED mini-LED, and NanoCell TV models in 80 markets globally. LG says the full list of compatible TVs will be released at a later date.
With the GeForce Now app installed, users will have access to 35 free-to-play games if they own a compatible controller, with no additional hardware required. Games include Rocket League, Destiny 2, Marvel’s Guardians of the Galaxy, and the Crysis Remastered Trilogy. Games can be played at up to 1080p resolution and 60 frames per second, though there has been some recent controversy over this as Nvidia has admitted to capping some games at lower frame rates. (Digital Trends has put together a list of the best GeForce Now games.) Gaming The dream of a "Netflix of gaming" has long been the most exciting prospect in the industry, and now Netflix itself has finally entered the gaming space with its own games service. At this point, we've already seen some of the biggest companies in the world try and enter the gaming space -- and universally fail. Even companies that are focused on games, such as Sony, haven't fully cracked the nut that is a successful game streaming platform.
Netflix is the gold standard for movie and TV streaming, so from the outside it makes sense that it would know how to make a great streaming service for games as well. However, streaming a game and streaming a movie are two completely different beasts. More than that, though, making an appealing game service is not at all similar to making an appealing TV and movie service. Looking at how the platform has rolled out, plus the context of Netflix's business as a whole, it reads like a desperate move on Netflix's part to differentiate itself from its competition -- companies that have already eaten its lunch.
Read the room Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
