Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News CES 2023: Nvidia GeForce Now is coming to internet-enabled cars By Giovanni Colantonio Close Nvidia GeForce Now is coming to an unexpected new platform: cars. The cloud streaming service will start rolling out in select internet-enabled vehicles, with three partners announced during Nvidia’s CES 2023 showcase.
GeForce Now is a popular gaming subscription service that allows players to stream games from the cloud. Nvidia expanded the service’s functionality and reach over the past few years, even bringing it to Samsung smart TVs as a native app. The service’s latest expansion will take the service to the open road.
A video accompanying the announcement shows a driver loading up the GeForce Now app via a screen in a car, clicking on Rocket League , and playing it with a connected gamepad. Nvidia notes that no special equipment is required to get the service running in a vehicle.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Three partners will add GeForce Now to their vehicles to start: BYD, Hyundai Motor Group, and Polestar. All three companies are currently working on integrating the service, with no other partners named.
The move is part of Nvidia’s vision of the future which it predicts will see car interiors turning into “mobile living spaces.” The company is careful to note how it expects drivers to play in the car though, noting that it sees games being played while an electric car charges or while waiting to pick up a family member. The video also shows kids playing Rocket League on backseat screens during a drive, which is perhaps the more practical use case.
Nvidia isn’t the only company looking to bring games to cars. Tesla recently gave drivers the ability to play Steam games inside of their vehicles.
Editors' Recommendations PC Game Pass will leverage GeForce Now in the coming months CES 2023: Gran Turismo 7 is coming to PS VR2 as a launch game The best games to show off Nvidia’s GeForce RTX 4090 Logitech made its own lightweight handheld built for cloud gaming Tencent and Logitech are making a cloud gaming handheld device CES 2023 Cloud Gaming Tech News Gaming GeForce Now is one of the most unique game streaming services on the market. Rather than giving players a catalog of titles for their monthly fee, subscribers instead access their own library of games from third-party storefronts such as Steam and the Epic Games Store. Games can be played remotely on Android devices, MacBooks, or even underpowered laptops. It's a unique approach to the game streaming concept, but there's one big catch -- just because you own a game doesn't mean it's compatible with GeForce Now.
That's right, not every title in your massive Steam library will run on GeForce Now. The service has made huge strides over the past few years, however, with more than 1,000 titles now playable on the service. If you're having trouble figuring out what to play using your new subscription -- or if you're just wondering whether your favorite game is compatible with the service -- here's a look at some of the best games on GeForce Now.
Computing As part of the weekly GFN Thursday, Nvidia announced that 4K streaming is coming to the GeForce Now apps on Windows and Mac, which is enabled by Nvidia's Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) technology. As of now, the increased resolution is only available for GeForce Now's RTX 3080 tier.
DLSS has been a staple of high-end PC gaming for the past couple of years, leveraging the dedicated Tensor cores inside RTX graphics cards to upscale games with AI. Although you can enable DLSS with games in GeForce Now, this is the first time Nvidia has explicitly confirmed that the technology helps power its cloud gaming platform.
Gaming Nvidia announced today that it's bringing Fortnite back to Apple platforms with an open beta on Android and iOS devices through its cloud gaming service, Nvidia GeForce Now. This limited-time testing will take place on the Nvidia GeForce Now Android app and the iOS Safari web browser. Note that it's the Apple web browser, not an app.
GeForce Now members can sign up for the open beta before it starts next week. However, there's limited space available, so everyone who signs up won't necessarily receive an invite. Those who want to participate but don't yet have a Nvidia GeForce Now account can sign up for free.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
