Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features I ditched my consoles and went to cloud gaming for a week – here’s how it went By Jesse Lennox Close Game streaming has felt like the “next big thing” in gaming for the past decade. I recall trying out services like OnLive back in my college dorm room, playing the same 30-minute trials over and over again. Half the time the service never booted, and the half that it did was a lag-filled mess. Fast forward a couple of years and Sony acquires Gaikai to integrate into PlayStation Now (RIP), but left it largely ignored until Xbox began its push into streaming with its Xcloud initiative. With major tech giants like Google and Amazon failing to crack the game streaming code, Sony and Microsoft appear to be the only two capable of supporting this console-less method of play.
Old man yells at cloud (gaming) Xcloud marks the spot Getting my head out of the clouds For all the fancy talk about new servers and top-of-the-line streaming technology, I’ve never been convinced that game streaming would be able to replace the tried and true local experience. After all, even under perfect internet conditions, the speed of light is only so fast. And assuming even most people will have perfect internet conditions itself is laughable. However, I wanted to put my money where my mouth was. How could I judge game streaming if I didn’t actually give it a shot? That’s why, for an entire week, the only way I played games was through streaming services.
I was in a pretty good position to execute that plan already. I live in Westminster Colorado, which is not too far off from Denver, in a single-floor townhome with Xfinity internet. I run all my devices off a wireless modem with 5GHz Wi-Fi. According to various speed tests I’ve run, my download speeds can vary between 50 and 130-ish Mbps depending on the time of day. My options were limited to remote play on PS5 via my smartphone or PC, and Xbox cloud gaming on those same devices.
Through that unpredictable experience, I’ve come out the other side with a far better understanding of cloud gaming — one that’s both reinforced my skepticism and helped me better understand who benefits from it.
Old man yells at cloud (gaming) With PlayStation being my primary console, I began by setting up remote play. After downloading the app on my PC and phone, and allowing for remote play on the console itself, I was off to the races.
Or, rather, I thought I was. I knew going in that remote play was far more limited than Microsoft’s cloud gaming platform — you can only stream to your devices on the same network as your PS5 , for instance. Essentially, this acts as a second-screen solution. While not as versatile on the whole, I could see plenty of use cases for this and expected the “tethering” to the primary console and home network to provide a much smoother, more stable play experience.
I wasn’t prepared for just how wrong I was. The first red flag was just how long it took to actually connect — in fact, it failed my first two tries. I was about to give up when it pushed through on my third try after three or four minutes of connecting. Once it booted, I was greeted by my dashboard and started navigating around. From those first inputs moving through menus, my expectations fell. I was back in my college dorm struggling through OnLive all over again. Still, I put my judgment aside and loaded up a game. Perhaps it was still establishing a solid connection between devices.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Once again I was proven wrong. I started with Dead Island 2 since it was the last game I had played, and after getting through the menus, I realized input delay was only the start of the problems. I got around two minutes into “playing” before the visual quality completely tanked. I was looking at blocks of pixels tearing across the screen, all while the input delay somehow got worse. This lasted only a couple of seconds before my connection was dropped. I would repeat this over the course of the week, but couldn’t find any rhyme or reason for it. Some days I could connect on my first try (though it always took a few minutes to do), and the games hold up, at least to the point of not crashing. On other days, it would be a struggle to even start playing.
Using the mobile app wasn’t any better, regardless of where in my house I tried it. For a laugh, I even attempted to try using my Premium membership to try and stream a game over remote play. Perhaps mercifully, the system doesn’t allow for that.
Xcloud marks the spot After getting my first gaming PC , I dipped my toes back into the Xbox ecosystem with my Game Pass Ultimate subscription. This includes access to Microsoft’s cloud service, which is technically still in beta, but available on both PC and mobile.
Starting with mobile, I was instantly impressed with how quick it was to boot not only the interface but each game as well. Having to wait for minutes, and go through multiple attempts at times, had really diminished my desire to play on PlayStation, but the snappy response here enticed me to jump into games way more due to just how easy it was.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When selecting what to play, I decided to let the community guide my hand and play a selection of highlighted “most popular on cloud” games. This list was quite surprising at first glance, including titles like Halo: Infinite, Mortal Kombat 11, and Wo Long: Fallen Dynasty.
If those were the most popular, perhaps it worked better than I expected.
Trying out Halo, I exited after a single multiplayer match. That wasn’t because it was a bad experience (in fact, it was quite smooth), but only because it was what I expected. Going from 120 fps, instant response time to 30 frames with delay just feels like playing underwater. I quit after that single game because I was so eager to try something else that had a better shot at showing off the tech.
That small experience showed me that the visual quality held steady, but more importantly, so did the delay. Unlike remote play on PS5 , the delay on Xbox Cloud Gaming never felt like it fluctuated. Perhaps, I thought, if it was a consistent delay, I might be able to eventually adapt to it, like learning to play with inverted controls. It would be awkward and uncomfortable at first, but over time I hoped it would become second nature.
Getting my head out of the clouds The most surprising thing about my week of streaming was that, yes, in some instances I was able to adapt so that the input delay felt less bad. It never went away, and in tense moments, I could feel that the game wasn’t keeping up with my actions. That will always be frustrating, and likely never completely disappear. However, slower-paced and turn-based games shine in a cloud context.
I also realized that as cool as bringing a console-quality game on the go to play on my phone was in concept, it’s little more than a novelty in practice. Screen size here is the major hurdle, specifically with UI. Reading and learning a game became very difficult when the text, meters, symbols, and everything were shrunk down on my phone’s display. This would be impossible using touch controls where a second layer of UI further obscures things, such as in the egregious example I had of trying to play Wo Long.
Using a controller, or the Backbone One in my case, helped, but couldn’t cure this problem.
Image used with permission by copyright holder By the end of the week, I wasn’t convinced game streaming will ever be for me or the “hardcore” audience, but I can see its audience more clearly. With Xbox streaming, all you need is a phone and a subscription to play anywhere you like (service dependent, of course). Once I found the games that worked within the constraints of the screen size and input delay, such as JRPGS like Ni No Kuni 2 , top-down/isometric games, and narrative adventures, I loved whipping out my phone while taking a walk and playing some Tunic, Dicey Dungeons, or Edge of Eternity while enjoying the air. The only current oversight I hope is resolved with this service is that you can’t use Xbox Cloud Gaming on PC without a controller, even on games that support keyboard and mouse.
Cloud and game streaming has opened the door for so many people who can’t get access to dedicated gaming hardware. It can even act as a bridge for the already massive mobile audience to try out more types of games than they would otherwise have access to. I still don’t believe it will ever replace dedicated hardware, nor do I think Sony or Xbox expect it to. What it can do is further push the accessibility of games as a whole, and in that regard, I have come to fully support the movement toward game streaming, even if it’s not for me.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music PS Plus members can cloud stream PS5 games in 4K later this month PlayStation Portal misunderstands remote play and cloud gaming’s appeal I rated this summer’s biggest gaming showcases. This was the best one I can rest — my search for the ultimate PC gaming controller is over Cloud Gaming Features Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming If there’s one video game presentation happening over the next week that has the most to prove, it’s the Xbox Games Showcase. Despite a strong start to the year with Hi-Fi Rush and a solid Developer Direct showcase, Microsoft’s gaming branch has floundered in recent months because of struggles with its acquisition of Activision Blizzard and the rocky launch of Redfall. With the Xbox Games Showcase and Starfield Direct Double Feature, Microsoft must reconfirm its commitment to gaming and to releasing high-quality first-party exclusives.
That said, Xbox is in an excellent position to do just that because of Sony’s underwhelming May showcase. As the first major gaming presentation of the summer, Sony had the chance to “win” the whole game reveal season early with its PlayStation Showcase. Ultimately, that live stream proved disappointing because of its focus on CGI reveal trailers and live service games.
Gaming Over the past few years, I’ve found myself mourning the PlayStation brand I grew up with. When I was a kid, PlayStation was an eccentric platform home to the kind of oddball creative swings you now only ever see indie publishers take a chance on. In the PS5 era, though, Sony has doubled down on a cinematic action-adventure formula that feels less safe (though likely way more profitable) by comparison. It’s an understandable pivot, but it leaves me hungry for more diverse experiences on my PS5.
Thankfully, that desire has been satiated with Humanity, a game that’s already nabbing several impressive accolades from me. It’s the best reason to subscribe to PS Plus, the best game currently available on PlayStation VR2, and perhaps the best PS5 console-exclusive period (it’s also available on PC via Steam). The unique puzzler has all the markings of those left-field PlayStation classics I love … except for the fact it wasn’t developed or published by Sony at all.
Gaming It’s that time of the year again when industry insiders are teasing that a big PlayStation Showcase will happen around June. A third-party focused State of Play happened in 2022, but now Video Games Chronicle’s Andy Robinson and Giant Bomb’s Jeff Grubb are both suggesting that a more first-party oriented "Showcase" could be on the way sometime during the next month, potentially during the week of May 25.
PlayStation has had a rough start to 2023, with console exclusive Forspoken garnering mixed reviews, the PlayStation VR2 impressing critics while underperforming in sales, and The Last of Us Part 1’s PC port being broken at launch. With only Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 confirmed to be on the horizon for 2023, Sony has a lot to prove during its next showcase. There are three specific things I need to see from Sony if that PlayStation Showcase does come to fruition.
Give PSVR2 purpose The PlayStation VR2 is an impressive piece of virtual reality technology, but it lacks killer apps outside of Horizon: Call of the Mountain. New game releases for the headset have been slow since its February 2022 launch, which is likely why the $550 headset has underperformed. Sony has opted to mainly relegate PSVR2 to State of Plays or PlayStation Blog posts, but it needs to revitalize excitement for the platform by giving some of its games a spotlight in a big PlayStation Showcase.
Hopefully, there’s more on the way in terms of new AAA VR exclusives from first-party studios, as well as much-demanded ports like Half-Life: Alyx. Already announced PSVR2 games like Journey to Foundation and Synapse could also use release dates. A PlayStation Showcase is the perfect time for Sony to put out a clear road map for PSVR2’s future game library, just as the September 2021 PlayStation did for PS5. Give me a reason to strap on that headset yet again.
Flesh out the system’s 2023 exclusives lineup PS5 needs a strong lineup for this fall as well. With the exception of Marvel’s Spider-Man 2, things look pretty barren for PS5 this year after the launch of Final Fantasy XVI. Several previously announced PS5 games still lack concrete release dates and could arrive in the second half of this year. It’d be nice to get a clearer picture of Sony’s PS5 game lineup for the rest of the year; hopefully, it includes titles like Stellar Blade, the Silent Hill 2 remake, Lost Soul Aside, Death Stranding 2, and Final Fantasy VII Rebirth.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
