Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features PlayStation Portal misunderstands remote play and cloud gaming’s appeal By Tomas Franzese Close Sony finally revealed more details about its upcoming handheld, now called PlayStation Portal , but these announcements have soured my opinion on the device rather than hyped me up for it. I enjoy cloud gaming and have used a variety of services like Google Stadia, Amazon Luna , and Xbox Cloud Gaming – across my phone and even dedicated devices like the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld. Because of that, I was really excited to see what PlayStation could do as it entered the space. Unfortunately, some specific exclusions from PlayStation Portal’s functionality that make it more of a remote-play device rather than a cloud gaming handheld indicate that Sony has a fundamental misunderstanding about what people would want out of a PlayStation game streaming handheld.
Narrowing its appeal PlayStation Portal’s obvious shortcomings Namely, the device’s positioning as primarily a “remote play dedicated device” and the exclusion of PlayStation Plus Premium cloud gaming compatibility drastically shrinks the number of reasons people should pick the device up. Cloud gaming and devices built around it have been around long enough to show that an inclusive approach to the number of services, games, and kinds of game streaming available is vital to success, and for a $200 handheld, PlayStation Portal seems like it’s excluding way too much.
Narrowing its appeal Remote play differs from what’s more ubiquitously referred to as cloud gaming players are running the games on their own consoles rather than a third-party console or server. Still, it’s a form of streaming games over a Wi-Fi connection, typically through an app on a phone or device like the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld. That means you’ll have to stick around your own home to use the PlayStation Portal, and its game library is limited to whatever the user owns on the console. That’s limiting (it’s like if Steam Deck only ran Steam Link) but does have some use cases. Still, it doesn’t necessarily feel like it warrants a dedicated $200 device over a phone and a nice mobile controller like the Razer Kishi V2 or Backbone One – PlayStation Edition ; haptic feedback and adaptive triggers only go so far.
Sony And that’s about it when it comes to game functionality. It’s a bit cheaper than other devices but also isn’t something you’ll use to play services like Nvidia GeForce Now, Xbox Cloud Gaming, and Amazon Luna. In recent years, it’s become quite clear that the best way to succeed in the cloud gaming and cloud gaming hardware space is to support as many services as possible and give players access to as many solid games as possible. PlayStation isn’t doing the former, which is an odd but acceptable choice. What’s most disappointing is how it’s limiting itself with the latter.
Deep into the PlayStation Blog post revealing more about PlayStation Portal, it’s briefly mentioned that “games that are streamed through PlayStation Plus Premium’s cloud streaming are not supported.” That means all of the PS3 and PS4 games available to play via the cloud natively on a PS5 aren’t even going to be useable on a PlayStation Portable. While this is only mentioned in passing in the article, it’s actually one of the biggest mistakes I think Sony is making with the PlayStation Portal outside of the lack of Bluetooth support.
When the device was announced, I considered picking it up so I could have an easier way to play some classic PS3 games without having to dig out the system from storage for my parents’ house. As games from that platform specifically aren’t playable natively on PS5, PlayStation Portal could’ve served as the best modern way to play PS3 games, could’ve helped promote a more forgotten part of its PlayStation Plus Premium service, and increased the number of games playable on the PlayStation. Instead of embracing that corner of the PlayStation Plus Premium catalog, it is completely ignoring a massive part of its subscription library and worsening the chances that someone who picks up a PlayStation Portal has a healthy list of games to choose from.
Sony I own over plenty compatible with PlayStation Portal, so I personally won’t have a shortage of things to play were I to pick up the device. That said, I own way more games than the average person who probably only picks up a couple of games a year and only keeps a few installed due to the system’s relatively low 1TB SSD storage. If those people want to use the PlayStation Portal because they don’t want to or can’t play the PS5 on the TV it’s attached to, that’s fine and a reason for the device to exist. That said, it’s not giving people a reason to stick around, play new games, or run anything natively on the device.
A device like the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld is appealing because it fully embraces all versions of cloud gaming and doesn’t leave its users with a shortage of choices. And even that device is held back by the fact that it must be connected to Wi-Fi at all times, a constraint the PlayStation Portal shares. Sony is taking a different approach by making a remote play device that has limited itself to a single platform ecosystem, and it’s shooting itself in the foot by not fully embracing that ecosystem like a proprietary cloud streaming device should. That makes it harder to argue why people should pick up a PlayStation Portal over just downloading the Remote Play app and getting a mobile gaming controller for cheaper.
PlayStation Portal’s obvious shortcomings I am writing all of this having not been able to go hands-on with a PlayStation Portal yet. It’s quite possible that it feels great to use, the connection is better than remote play to a phone, and it has great battery life. The PS5 UI and general functionality could potentially work best on the Portal, like how the Steam Deck is the best portable PC to use for Steam games. It also has use cases for people who might not always have access to the TV that their PS5 is otherwise connected to, and it’s priced better than other cloud gaming handhelds from Logitech and Razer. There are definite upsides to Sony having a dedicated PlayStation game streaming device.
Sony Unfortunately, its confirmed functionality, or lack thereof, across the cloud gaming space and even PlayStation’s own services makes me question the device’s viability and Sony’s own understanding of the cloud gaming space and devices related to it. It’s great that Sony wants to give me and others a new space to play PS4 and PS5 games via remote play at 1080p and 60 FPS with a DualSense-like controller, but Sony’s exclusionary approach to the device’s compatibility makes me wary of the PlayStation Portal before I’ve even had a chance to try it.
Cloud gaming and remote play are meant to expand the number of places and ways that people can experience video games, and what we know about PlayStation Portal hasn’t reflected that sentiment much just yet. I’d love to be proven wrong, but Sony has not yet made a compelling case as to why people should pick up a PlayStation Portal.
The PlayStation Portal will launch later this year for $200.
Editors' Recommendations Sony’s new PlayStation earbuds are a perfect match — for my Nintendo Switch Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 sets an incredibly high bar for future PS5 games PlayStation boss Jim Ryan is stepping down, with successor yet to be named Everything announced at the September 2023 State of Play PlayStation Plus is getting a major price hike following Game Pass changes Cloud Gaming Features Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming For the past six months, PlayStation VR2 players like myself have been yearning for new reasons to boot up our headsets. And after a long wait, the VR platform is getting a much-needed infusion with two brand-new titles. It’s a cause for celebration, but a mild one; neither of PSVR2's latest titles does much to revitalize my shock and awe for the platform six months into its life span.
The two games in question are the exclusive, Sony-published Firewall Ultra from First Contact Entertainment and Crossfire Sierra Squad from Smilegate. Both are realistic-looking military shooters, although they are different in execution. Firewall Ultra is a Rainbow Six Siege-style, squad-based multiplayer game, while Crossfire Sierra Squad taps more into the genre’s arcade roots to create VR shooting galleries.
Gaming Sony has unveiled the price for its upcoming cloud gaming handheld, as well as an official name for the device: PlayStation Portal. However, one significant caveat to its functionality might sour people's interest in the handheld: It only supports PS4 and PS5 native games that the owner purchased.
PlayStation VR2 games can't be streamed to PlayStation Portal, which does make sense. More bafflingly, though, is the fact that the PlayStation Blog post states that "games that are streamed through PlayStation Plus Premium’s cloud streaming are not supported." That means you shouldn't pick up PlayStation Portal expecting to stream some PS3 and PS4 games available through PlayStation Plus Premium to the device. That's certainly an odd omission when it's currently PlayStation's most notable cloud gaming effort.
Although Microsoft is more closely associated with cloud gaming, Sony beat it to releasing a dedicated cloud gaming device. PlayStation Portal was first teased as Project Q during May's PlayStation showcase, but now, a PlayStation Blog post more clearly explains what we can actually expect from the handheld. Most importantly, we learned that PlayStation Portal will cost $200, which puts it underneath the cost of a Nintendo Switch, Xbox Series S, and other cloud gaming devices like the Logitech G Cloud Handheld.
As for what you're getting for that price tag, it's essentially a decent screen attached to two halves of a DualSense controller. The controllers on each side share all the functionality of the DualSense, including things like haptic feedback and adaptive triggers. In-between is an 8-inch LCD screen that streams games over Wi-Fi at up to a 1080p resolution and 60 frames per second. All in all, that's fairly solid for a cloud gaming handheld that is this cheap.
Sony confirmed that the PlayStation Portal will have a 3.5mm audio jack, but also used the same blog post to unveil two new wireless audio options. There's the Pulse Elite wireless headset that features a retractable boom mic and a charging hanger and Pulse Explore wireless earbuds that offer similar audio quality in earbud form.
None of these products are available for preorder or have a specific release date just yet, but they are all expected to launch before the end of the year.
Gaming Over the past month, it's been nice to see the game industry truly get back into the swing of things with its midyear showcase. While there was no E3 this year (and it doesn't look like there will be ones in the future), the likes of Nintendo, PlayStation, Xbox, Ubisoft, and Geoff Keighley all still held exciting live streams of their own that were filled with surprising announcements and entertaining moments. With the season's biggest gaming showcases seemingly over, I began to ask myself which one I enjoyed most. To figure out what makes an event like this work for me, I devised a rating system built on my own metrics and gave each one a grade.
I considered a variety of factors while looking at these showcases. The quality of the announcements is obviously very important, but so is the pacing of the stream and the relevancy of what's shown. I assigned each showcase a letter grade based on that, with some notes on what worked and what didn't. Here's where each show landed for me.
PlayStation Showcase Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
