Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? PS Plus is getting an underrated RPG cult classic this month By Tomas Franzese Close Sony revealed which games will come to its PlayStation Plus Premium and Extra Game Catalog this November.
 Outside of a day-one release hitting service today, the rest of these games will come ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday on November 21. Of the 14 games coming to the service, the highlight is Dragon’s Dogma: Dark Arisen , an underrated cult-classic RPG worth checking out before its impending sequel’s release.
Capcom Dragon’s Dogma was first released for PS3 and Xbox 350 in 2012, while the enhanced Dark Arisen edition of the game came to PS4 and Xbox One in 2017. In it, players control a powerful fantasy hero called the Arisen, who loses their heart in a fight with a dragon but goes on a quest to stop the dragon and quell the apocalypse it’s heralding. Its interesting lore, entertaining combat, and unique Pawn companion system still leave a positive impression over a decade after its initial release and have set the stage for a sequel in development at Capcom.
Fans of RPGs will definitely want to check Dragon’s Dogma: Dark Arisen out if they haven’t played it yet when it comes to the service on November 21. Here’s the full list of titles that will come to PS Plus Premium and Extra’s Game Catalog this month, including Dragon’s Dogma: Dark Arisen and the PS5 port of Teardown , which is available now as a title available through the subscription on day one: Teardown Dragon’s Dogma: Dark Arisen Mobile Suit Gundam: Extreme vs. Maxi Boost On Dead Island: Riptide Definitive Edition Superliminal Eiyuden Chronicle: Rising Nobunaga’s Ambition: Taishi Alternate Jake Hunter: Daedalus The Awakening of Golden Jazz River City Melee Mach!! Grandia Jet Moto Up Klonoa Phantasy Reverie Series PaRappa the Rapper 2 While that’s a solid list of new games coming to PS Plus — especially if you’re a fan of Japanese game developers — the subscription is also losing some games on the same day those new games are added: November 21. This is the list of games leaving the PS Plus Game Catalog in November: Ace of Seafood ConnecTank Dandara: Trials of Fear Edition Giana Sisters: Twisted Dreams – Director’s Cut Momodora: Reverie Under the Moonlight My Time at Portia Wild Guns Reloaded Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music PS Plus members can cloud stream PS5 games in 4K later this month PlayStation Plus is getting a major price hike following Game Pass changes PS Plus subscribers can get PS4’s most underrated exclusive for free next month PS Plus adds 2021’s ‘Game of the Year’ but loses Stray in July Sony Sony PlayStation Tech News Gaming Sony has confirmed the three PS4 and PS5 games PlayStation Plus Essential subscribers will receive this July, and it's actually the best lineup the service has seen in a while. It features one of the best Call of Duty games from recent years, a cult classic that needs to be played before its sequel launches next year, and an overlooked 2022 indie.
Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War was first released in 2020 and, as its title suggests, is set in the 1980s during the Cold War. It features one of the most creative Call of Duty campaigns since Modern Warfare 2 and makes excellent use of DualSense's haptic feedback and adaptive triggers. The multiplayer and zombie modes are good fun too. Next up is Alan Wake Remastered, a remaster of an excellent 2010 horror-thriller from Control developer Remedy Entertainment. It's an experience best played unspoiled, so I'll simply recommend you go and play this. Its PS Plus addition is timed well, too, as Alan Wake II is set to release and continue the story this October.
Finally, Endling - Extinction is Forever is available this month. This 2022 indie game follows a mother fox as she tries to protect her cubs in a forest continuously getting ravaged by humans. It's a chilling, staunchly harrowing adventure that clearly displays the negative effects of deforestation, pollution, and environmental exploitation. You might have missed this game last year, as it came out on the same day as Stray, so definitely give it a shot now if you haven't yet.
This lineup of Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War Cross-Gen Bundle, Alan Wake Remastered, and Endling - Extinction is Forever is one of the best lineups PS Plus Essential has seen in months, so definitely pick up these games when they are available between July 4 and July 31. Make sure you download June's titles before July 4 as well.
Gaming The PlayStation platform has always been home to some of the best RPGs on the market. Whether they're JRPGs, action RPGs, tactical RPGs, or any other variation, there's never been a shortage of games that allow you to live out a new experience in nearly any type of setting you could imagine. RPGs were initially a more niche genre, catering to the old-school Dungeons and Dragons players, but have steadily grown in popularity as they have become more accessible and widespread. These games offer narratives and gameplay styles you can't find anywhere else.
The PlayStation 5 came out of the gate strong with a number of high-quality RPGs. Since then, the library has only grown as newer titles find their home on this powerful console. No matter what type of RPG you prefer -- turn-based or real-time combat; fantasy, sci-fi, or modern settings; linear stories or ones that incorporate your choices -- the PS5 has an RPG that will fit your tastes. To help find your perfect fit, take a look at this roundup of the best RPGs for PS5.
Gaming Sony has revealed the next batch of games coming to PlayStation Plus Premium and Extra in June, and the highlight is Far Cry 6. Sony also teased that it is starting to test cloud streaming for PS5 games, with plans to add that feature to PlayStation Plus in the future. A free game trial for WWE 2K23 and free avatars and wallpapers for PS Plus members will also become available next week.
When it comes to new titles, Sony revealed a nice batch of older AAA titles and more recent hit indies for June. On the AAA side of things, Far Cry 6 and Deus Ex: Mankind Divided are very enjoyable, while, indie games like Rogue Legacy 2 and Inscryption are also worth checking out. A PlayStation UK Facebook post confirms that these are titles coming to the service on June 20.
Far Cry 6 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge Rogue Legacy 2 Inscryption Soulstice Tacoma Dues Ex: Mankind Divided Killing Floor 2 Lonely Mountains: Downhill Vampire: The Masquerade - Coteries of New York Hundred Days: Winemaking Simulator A Hat in Time Carto Forager Dodgeball Academia The Wild at Heart Redout 2 Thief MX vs ATV Legends PAW Patrol Might Pups: Save Adventure Bay! My Friend Peppa Pig DC League of Super-Pets: The Adventures of Krypto and Ace The Talos Principle: Deluxe Edition Elex 2 Killzone: Liberation (PSP) Worms (PS1) Herc's Adventures (PS1) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
