Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Gaming Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? CES 2023: Razer Edge 5G is an impressive (and misguided) gaming handheld By Jacob Roach Close Razer is tapping into the cloud/mobile/handheld gaming craze with the Edge 5G.
 It’s a unique device, packed with a powerful Snapdragon G3x Gen 1 mobile chipset for native Android gaming, as well as 5G and Wi-Fi 6E support for on-the-go cloud gaming. I had a chance to try it out at CES 2023, and it’s the best iteration of this type of device we’ve seen. But it still loses on principle.
If you’re unfamiliar with the Razer Edge, it’s basically a phone that you can’t call or text with combined with Razer’s Kishi V2 Pro controller.
 The controller isn’t the same as the $100 Kishi V2 you can buy now — it’s almost identical, but Razer added haptics for the Edge. You can’t buy this updated version, but when I asked Razer if it planned to bring the Pro to market, the company left the door open.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There are two versions available, one solely with Wi-Fi 6E and another with 5G and Wi-Fi available through Verizon (Razer even says there’s a deal with Verizon if you add a line). Make no mistake, though: you want the 5G version.
Logitech’s mediocre G Cloud gaming handheld only supported Wi-Fi, and 5G is the big selling point for the Razer Edge’s true cloud gaming when you’re out and about.
And the connectivity works great. Even on the spotty hotel Wi-Fi at CES, I was able to stream LEGO Star Wars The Skywalker Saga without a hitch and without any delay. Cloud gaming has come a long way. I played some of Dead Cells with its native Android port, too, and it felt wonderful.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The screen helped a lot. The Edge 5G has a 2,400 x 1,080 screen with a 144Hz refresh rate. Android games don’t support 144Hz out of the box (developers need to manually enable it), but apps like Steam Link do.
For feel, the Razer Edge is top-notch. The Kishi V2 feels wonderful to use, and the overall package is much smaller than a device like the Steam Deck.
 Razer has a special area within the Android operating system, too. This includes your cloud gaming apps like GeForce Now and Xbox Game Pass, alongside native Android games like Dead Cells.
If anything, this hub is the special sauce of the Razer Edge. In addition to you games, you can remap controls easily, configure your haptics, and more. You still have a full Android experience outside, but a UI purpose-built for controllers is what’s missing for cloud and mobile gaming right now.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The main question is if that hub is worth $400. Although Razer seems confident that the Edge 5G is competing with handheld gaming devices like the Steam Deck and Nintendo Switch, that’s not the case. The Razer Edge 5G is competing with the phone you have in your pocket. The only difference I can see between buying a Kishi V2 and buying a Razer Edge 5G is about $300, haptics, and no ability to call or text on the Razer Edge.
There’s no doubt in my mind; the Razer Edge 5G is the best version of this type of device I’ve seen, but it’s misguided from the start when your phone has more functionality. Razer’s position seems to be that a device like the Edge saves battery life on your phone and gives you a dedicated platform for gaming. That’s true, but not enough to tip the scales based on what I’ve seen so far.
The price certainly doesn’t help. At $400, the Razer Edge 5G is competing with the Steam Deck without being able to natively play the large swath of games Valve’s handheld has access to — and it’s $100 more expensive than the Nintendo Switch. If the idea behind cloud gaming is to provide cheaper options for people who can’t afford a console or PC, there’s no room for a device like the Razer Edge 5G.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I enjoyed using the device for a brief while, and I wouldn’t have any issues gaming on it for hours on end. But when it comes time to put down money, I’d be buying a Steam Deck or Nintendo Switch, or even just a Razer Kishi for my Samsung Galaxy S22 Plus. The biggest argument I can see for the Razer Edge is emulation — but once again, simply buying a Kishi and using your phone already solves that problem.
The Razer Edge 5G releases on January 26 through Razer’s website or Verizon.
Editors' Recommendations Samsung’s new Odyssey Neo G9 gaming monitor is beautiful, but it has a fatal flaw Digital Trends’ Top Tech of CES 2023 Awards The best gaming monitors of CES 2023 Lenovo’s CES 2023 Legion laptops include AI ‘graphical wizardry’ CES 2023: AMD’s next-gen laptop GPU could beat a desktop RTX 3060 Computing 5G CES 2023 Cloud Gaming Features PC Gaming Gaming Sony is creating a new PlayStation controller built with accessibility in mind, dubbed Project Leonardo. The "highly customizable" controller aims to allow more players to experience PlayStation games.
The new comes from Sony's CES 2023 keynote, which featured several gaming announcements. The company put an emphasis on innovation at the show, revealing additional details about the PlayStation VR2 and more. Project Leonardo came as an unexpected surprise, though.
Gaming Gran Turismo was the most dominant PlayStation franchise at CES 2023, appearing twice during Sony's January 4 press conference. We not only got a first look at the upcoming Gran Turismo movie, but learned that Gran Turismo 7 will get PlayStation VR2 support as well.
During the press conference, Sony confirmed that more than 30 games will be available for PlayStation VR2 at launch, including Horizon Call of the Mountain, No Man's Sky, and Resident Evil Village. In addition to a Beat Saber port, Sony also announced that Gran Turismo 7 will get a free update to add PlayStation VR2 support when the headset launches on February 22. We also saw some gameplay footage of Gran Turismo 7 for PlayStation VR2, which showed an impressive amount of detail as a player drove from a first-person perspective.
CES® 2023 Press Conference｜Sony Official While video game and VR fans will love that announcement, that wasn't even the series' first appearance at the show. Series creator and producer Kazunori Yamauchi appeared earlier to introduce the series, highlight the GT Sophy racing AI, and tease the Gran Turismo movie. We then learned more about the film as Sony Picture's Sanford Panitch, PlayStation Productions' Asad Qizilbash, and movie Director Neill Blomkamp took the stage.
They discussed PlayStation's growing efforts in the entertainment industry and how the Gran Turismo movie will follow the story of a gamer who goes from playing Gran Turismo in his parent's basement to a professional racer. The film just finished shooting, and Blomkamp took time to explain how the Sony Venice 2 camera's detachable sensor allowed them to get unusual Imax resolution shots. We then got a first look at the film in a sneak peek video: GRAN TURISMO – Exclusive Sneak Peek While the movie's appearance alone would have been a strong showing for this franchise, Gran Turismo reemerged during the PlayStation VR2 segment of the press conference. If you're a Gran Turismo fan, CES 2023 was certainly a treat for you! Gran Turismo 7 gets PlayStation VR2 support on February 22, while the Gran Turismo movie will hit movie theaters this August.
Computing During CES 2023, Asus debuted a brand-new gaming monitor: the ROG Swift OLED PG27AQDM. This display seems to be one of the gems among Asus' other releases, which include a slew of gaming laptops, monitors, peripherals, and more.
Asus' new gaming monitor serves up an OLED display in an accessible form. If you're not a fan of gaming on the enormous OLED monitors that have been available in the past but want high refresh rates and the visuals of OLED, this might be what you've been waiting for.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
