Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Razer Edge is a 5G gaming handheld with a seriously impressive screen By Giovanni Colantonio Close Razer is getting into the gaming handheld market with a new portable device, dubbed the Razer Edge. Able to stream cloud games and play mobile games natively, the company calls it the “world’s first dedicated 5G gaming device.” It boasts an impressive screen and comes with an updated version of the Razer Kishi V2 controller.
Like the recently released Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld , the Razer Edge takes a stab at the growing cloud gaming market with a standalone portable device. Razer plans to release two separate versions of the handheld: a $400 Wi-Fi version set to launch in January and a first-of-its-kind 5G edition.
 The latter will be available exclusively through Verizon and does not have a price or release date yet.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Razer Edge is powered by the Snapdragon G3X Gen 1 gaming platform and features a 3Ghz octa-core Kryo CPU with an Adreno GPU. It boasts a 5000mAh capacity battery, though Razer didn’t share battery life estimates. Perhaps its biggest selling point, though, is its screen. The Razer Edge is equipped with a 6.8-inch AMOLED touchscreen display, one that’s capable of hitting a 144hz refresh rate at 2400×1080 FHD+ resolution. That’s a notable step up from other portable gaming devices like the Steam Deck or Nintendo Switch OLED.
Each Razer Edge comes bundled with a Razer Kishi V2 Pro, an updated version of Razer’s mobile controller attachment. The Pro’s biggest changes are that it includes HyperSense advanced haptic feedback and a 3.5mm audio port.
PS5 DualSense Edge controller launches in January, but it’ll cost you $200 Logitech made its own lightweight handheld built for cloud gaming Tencent and Logitech are making a cloud gaming handheld device On paper, the Razer Edge packs some impressive specs that could help it stand out over the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld. While both devices can access cloud apps like Xbox Game Pass and download mobile games natively, the Edge has an advantage when it comes to its display and controls. However, even its Wi-Fi version is more expensive that Logitech’s device and the mystery pricing of its more impressive 5G counterpart could breed a fair competition between the two.
Pre-orders for the Wi-Fi edition are available now with a refundable $5 deposit. It’ll be available exclusively through Razer’s website , where it’ll retail for $400 starting in January. As mentioned, the 5G version does not have a release date just yet.
Editors' Recommendations CES 2023: Razer Edge 5G is an impressive (and misguided) gaming handheld Razer’s 5G-enabled handheld gaming system is getting a public release Sony reveals customizable PS5 DualSense Edge controller Microsoft just turned the Edge browser into a gaming powerhouse Nvidia GeForce Now adds two Battlefield classics and a free AT&T 5G plan Cloud Gaming PC Gaming Tech News Mobile If you've ever wanted to play a game with random strangers while standing in the middle of Times Square, well, your prayers were briefly answered on September 8 and 9.
Using the Mega Screen billboard located at 1500 Broadway and West 43 Street in Manhattan, bystanders could scan a QR code with their smartphones to participate as an "interactive spectator" in Streamline Studios' 2020 co-op game Bake 'n Switch. Those who did so were able to jump in and play part of the game without having to download or install it.
Gaming Razer has announced today that it is launching a new gaming accessory, the Razer Gaming Finger Sleeve. Woven with high-sensitivity silver fiber, the thumb sleeves aim to give players better control on touch screens and additional comfort thanks to breathable fabric.
Razer Gaming Sleeves are not for your arms, where you usually associate the word sleeve. These new fashion-forward accessories are actually for your thumbs, looking like the baby Digimon stage for gloves and glittens. The sleeves themselves aren't the stuff of fashion nightmares, as they look form-fitting even in a universal size, and the black, green, and silver color scheme is what we can expect from Razer products. Despite the uncanniness of putting fabric on just your thumbs, they look completely fine.
Computing Generally, when Razer updates its mice, very few changes are visible to the naked eye, in part due to the original designs already being so great. Just look at the DeathAdder. But when Razer revealed the new Orochi V2 to me, I noticed something striking about the design: It looks nothing like the original.
The original Orochi is Razer’s mobile wireless gaming mouse that offers a compact design with light weight and a pretty good sensor. This new V2 version of the mouse sticks to that basic recipe, but it massively changes the shape, cuts out the RGB, upgrades the sensor to a mighty 18,000 DPI eye, and throws in a HyperSpeed wireless connection. Will this make it one of the best gaming mice you can buy? Let's find out.
What have we got under the hood? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
