Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best GTA Games GTA 5 Cheats Fastest Cars in GTA 5 GTA 5 Mods GTA 6 Sell Cars in GTA 5 Home Gaming Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 4 video game news stories that shaped the industry’s future in 2022 By Giovanni Colantonio Close With the video game industry in constant growth mode, it’s rare we ever get through a year without some massive bombshell announcement with huge implications for the future.
In 2021, for instance , we saw Epic waging war against Apple’s business practices, Valve disrupting hardware with its Steam Deck announcement, and a harrowing Activision Blizzard scandal that acted as a tipping point for the industry and its often difficult working conditions.
Microsoft moves to acquire Activision Blizzard Unionization takes center stage Grand Theft Auto 6 leaks Cloud gaming takes a left turn The news didn’t slow down in 2022 — if anything, it escalated. The Activision Blizzard revelation in particular had something of a snowball effect this year, rolling its way into several major threads. Between high-profile acquisitions and a push for unionization, this year very much felt like a direct continuation of 2021. Nothing was a one-off story, but rather part of a historical moment that could make the 2020s the most pivotal decade in gaming history when all is said and done.
These are the four stories that made 2022 a key year for gaming’s future.
Grand Theft Auto 6 is getting its first trailer sooner than you think Microsoft gives Activision Blizzard cloud gaming rights to Ubisoft Rockstar Games’ co-founder just formed an ‘absurd’ new studio Microsoft moves to acquire Activision Blizzard Microsoft Coming out of a tumultuous 2021, all eyes were on Activision Blizzard. The company was the subject of damning reports about its toxic workplace culture and the industry was calling for change. That wasn’t lost on Microsoft, which made a drastic move in January by announcing its intention to acquire the Call of Duty publisher for $68.7 billion. To put that number into perspective, it’s the largest game studio acquisition of all time by over $50 billion.
The move was met with mixed reactions. Some felt that it was a necessary step to clean up an Activision Blizzard that was spiraling out of control at the expense of its workers. Others felt that the move could lead to a monopoly, as Microsoft would gain publishing rights to some of the industry’s most profitable titles. The move led to a high profile dispute between Microsoft and Sony, the latter of which painted it as an egregious anti-consumer move, even as Microsoft committed to releasing Call of Duty on platforms like PlayStation.
Regardless of what players personally felt, the Federal Trade Commission saw a red flag. Just this month, the FTC announced its intention to block the deal citing antitrust concerns. Now in jeopardy, the deal’s final fate could become the single most important gaming story of the decade. If the deal is struck down, it could set a new precedent for acquisitions, preventing the “big three” console companies from getting too big. Regulations like that could put a firm nail in gaming’s waning Wild West days for good.
Unionization takes center stage The effects of the Activision Blizzard scandal weren’t just felt at an executive level; they also led to a major milestone for workers rights. Discussions around workplace culture in games led to serious conversations around unionization, a concept that was previously foreign to the video game industry. Rumblings of a union push began in late December 2021 when Vodeo Games created the first gaming union in North America , but that push got more high-profile with each month.
It was no coincidence that the first major gaming union would come from within Activision Blizzard. QA testers at Call of Duty developer Raven Software successfully organized in May by a 19-3 vote. With such a high-profile organization effort at one of gaming’s biggest companies, there was a renewed sense of momentum for unionization across the industry throughout 2022. Whether or not that turns into a wider trend in 2023, it’s a historic moment for an industry that has struggled with toxicity, abuse, and a crunch culture for decades.
Grand Theft Auto 6 leaks Image used with permission by copyright holder At a high level, the video game industry’s biggest companies operate in secrecy. While there’s always an occasional release date leak, it’s very rare that we see much of a game more than a month out from any official press reveal. So it was especially shocking when a hacker got access to a massive folder of Grand Theft Auto 6 videos and casually posted it online on a Saturday night. The clips showed an incredibly early and rough build of the game — a part of the development process that’s usually left in the dark.
The leak led to some complicated emotions around the industry. Many criticized the criminal act , empathizing with developers whose work had been shared before they were ready to show it off. Others found a silver lining in the leak, using it as an educational moment to show players how much work goes into games behind the scenes.
Wherever you landed on it, the story was part of a much bigger trend this year, which saw interest in “leak” culture reach a boiling point as fans began taking the word of “insiders” as their Bible. That led to several points of confusion during the year, from a quickly debunked story about Amazon acquiring EA to an erroneous claim that two classic Legend of Zelda games were Switch-bound. To cap it all off, we got a new games media website in the form of Insider Gaming, which has struggled to deliver consistent truth since its inception. It was a year where empires were built on impatience.
Cloud gaming takes a left turn Samsung / Microsoft For the last few years, we’ve heard companies claim that cloud gaming is the future. Though the tech has received a fair amount of pushback from traditional players, 2022 proved that executives weren’t just full of hot air — though mixed messaging made it especially hard to get a read on the tech. One of this year’s biggest stories came when Google announced it was shutting down Stadia , a service that helped kick off the current wave of cloud tech.
That may have sounded like the beginning of the end for cloud gaming, but that’s far from what happened. If anything, it simply saw companies moving away from cloud subscription services as they looked for a more natural way to integrate the tech into our lives. Samsung, for instance, made a power play this year by introducing its Gaming Hub on certain smart TVs, a move that would suddenly give countless households access to services like Xbox Game Pass without a console or PC.
Other companies diversified their approach to cloud gaming even more. Logitech released a cloud-focused handheld and Razer’s own is on the horizon.
 Though the tech certainly found itself in an experimental and often confusing place in 2022, its future is becoming clearer. Rather than living and dying based on subscription costs, expect to see it at the heart of both new devices and the ones you already own going forward.
Editors' Recommendations GTA 6: release date speculation, trailer, news, rumors, and more Video game voice actors are poised for a strike after successful SAG-AFTRA vote Grand Theft Auto V makes its surprise return to Xbox Game Pass today Why cloud gaming is the linchpin in Microsoft’s troubled Activision Blizzard acqusition The forgotten games of 2022: 7 sleeper hits worth returning to 2022 in Gaming Action Games Cloud Gaming Features Grand Theft Auto PC Gaming Gaming Every year that passes seems to be a landmark one for gaming. The 2020s in particular have really upped the industry’s momentum with landscape-changing business deals that will undoubtedly have an impact for decades to come. Some of gaming’s less flattering developments have been just as instrumental, with workplace scandals slowly changing what happens behind the scenes.
With that in mind, there’s no reason to think 2023 will be a slow year. Not only is it set to be a big one for software thanks to titles like Final Fantasy XVI and The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, but we’re likely to see some major stories unfold in 2023 that will shape the future. Some are as simple as technology teaching its full potential, while others are potentially monumental business shifts that will trickle down to players one way or another.
Gaming Sports games are one of the most ubiquitous genres in gaming, as NBA 2K, Madden, and FIFA top sales charts every year. These franchises also happen to be some of gaming's most stagnant as their developers and publishers tend to focus on minor tweaks and changes year-over-year rather than significant innovations. The disappointment of games like Madden NFL 23 gives the genre a bad rap, but 2022 was actually one of the best years for sports games in a while. That's thanks to games that were willing to get weird.
Of course, the multi-million dollar mainstay sports franchises aren't going anywhere. That said, games like OlliOlli World, Rollerdrome Cursed to Golf, Windjammers 2, Roller Champions, What the Bat? and even Nintendo Switch Sports pushed the limits of what the genre can do. Sports inherently translate into solid video games, but this year highlighted how those games can go a step beyond, becoming kookier than what's possible in reality. That helped breathe some life into an otherwise stale genre.
Sports games get weird When looking back at 2022, there are a lot of sports games worth calling out outside of the usual suspects. Nintendo Switch Sports is the hallmark casual sports game from this year, giving people an accessible and motion-control-based way to play golf, badminton, tennis, bowling, chambara, soccer, and volleyball with Nintendo's signature first-party visual flair. Though that was one of the more high-profile twists of the genre, indie developers led the charge, allowing the sports genre to shine this year.
Roll7's OlliOlli World, for instance, is one of my favorite games of the year. Skateboarding games have been a sports gaming mainstay since the 90s, but OlliOlli World realizes that formula in a way that's as fulfilling to play as Sonic the Hedgehog's best games. At its best, OlliOlli World is a colorful, fast-paced 2D platformer where each level has multiple paths that accommodate various player skill levels.
It's not trying to have accurate physics or recreate iconic real-world locations. Instead, it crafts its own vibrant fantasy world where everything is based on skateboarding, and the gameplay gives players enough wiggle room to experiment and possibly fail with flashy tricks. Roll7 didn't stop there, also delivering Rollerdrome, a game that combines score-based rollerblading with shooting to create an action-sports game mix players didn't know they needed.
Playing sports can give you an ultra-focused adrenaline rush, and a game like OlliOlli World and Rollerdrome can achieve that same flow state through gameplay. Meanwhile, other games interpret sports in a brand new way outright.
Gaming Video games industry leaks and rumors aren't a new phenomenon. Half-Life 2's source code leaked in 2003, and rumors about what gaming companies would do next have always enamored gaming fans and media. That reached a boiling point in 2022, though. Multiple notable leakers vied for influencer status in the eyes of an avid community that was chomping at the bit to learn what their favorite (or most hated) gaming company will do next.
While leakers were in the spotlight in 2022, it wasn't always for good reason. Grand Theft Auto VI footage was illegally obtained in September and leaked onto the internet, raising questions over when and how video games deserve to be revealed. Multiple notable leakers were exposed as frauds, and one with an accurate track record just outright retired. Video game industry leaks and rumors feel more relevant (and flawed) than ever, and some of 2022's biggest video game news stories will forever be associated with them.
Video game rumors in 2022 Video game leaking culture was prevalent throughout 2022, with notable figures like Jeff Grubb and Tom Henderson providing insights into what game developers were working on. Henderson even launched a website centered around reporting on rumors called Insider Gaming. Though the site has had its misses, its already broken several stories ahead of an official announcement.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
