Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Xbox Game Pass’ cloud service is coming to the Meta Quest 2 and Pro By George Yang Close During the Meta Connec t presentation, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella announced that Xbox Cloud Gaming is coming to the Meta Quest store. That means VR users will be able to play Game Pass titles on both the Meta Quest 2 and Meta Quest Pro.
“In fact, many people are already playing our most popular games like Flight Simulator and Minecraft in VR today,” says Nadella during the stream. “With xCloud gaming, you can stream hundreds of games to any device allowing you to connect with gamers in all new ways, whether they’re right next to you or sitting on the other side of the world.” With this functionality, players will be able to use an Xbox controller with their headsets and play games from the Xbox Game Pass library on a 2D screen. There wasn’t a specific release date set for this, but more information will come in the future.
The best Meta Quest 2 games The impending Xbox 360 Store closure makes me wary of Game Pass’ future 5 underrated Xbox Game Pass games you should play while you still can Microsoft and Xbox have been at the forefront of cloud gaming. The company mentioned that they are currently working on Keystone , a cloud gaming-focused streaming device, but made the decision earlier this year to pivot away from its current design to find a new approach. Additionally, Hideo Kojima is working on a game with Microsoft that will leverage the company’s cloud technology.
Meta is also investing more in the gaming space in general.
Meta acquired Armature Studio, Camouflaj, and Twisted Pixel. Armature Studio developed the VR version of Resident Evil 4 , and Camouflaj developed Marvel’s Iron Man VR , the latter of which is a former PlayStation VR exclusive as it’s coming to Quest 2 on November 3.
Other games, such as Among Us VR and The Walking Dead: Saints & Sinners — Chapter 2: Retribution , are coming to Quest 2 on November 10 and December 1, respectively.
Editors' Recommendations One of the year’s best reviewed games is coming to Xbox Game Pass The best games on Xbox Game Pass for right now (September 2023) You can’t play Baldur’s Gate 3 on Xbox, but you can play these 6 Game Pass RPGs Your Xbox Live Gold subscription will turn into Xbox Game Pass Core this September We ranked all the best (and worst) video game system startup sounds Cloud Gaming Microsoft Tech News Virtual Reality Xbox Gaming I’m always excited for those two days every month when Xbox drops a blog post detailing the new additions coming to Game Pass. Even in slow months, there’s usually a hidden gem on there that I’m curious about digging into. Though as curious as I am about checking out what’s new, I often forget to scroll to the bottom and see what’s leaving the service. And just as there are a few standouts added to the service each month, Game Pass also tends to quietly lose just as many with each new batch.
That’s exactly the case this July. While the service gains Grand Theft Auto V and Exoprimal this month, it’s also losing two standout indies: Spelunky 2 and Exo One. If you’re looking for some games to play during a slow month for big releases, here’s why you should check out both before they leave the service on July 15.
Spelunky 2 Gaming If you aren't currently signed up for Xbox Game Pass, you can currently get your first month for $1. The deal only applies to Game Pass Ultimate and its PC version, though, as the console-only version is still at its full price.
Early in the Xbox Game Pass era, Microsoft would offer $1 onboarding deals for the service. The trick helped the company build a massive user base early on, but it has moved away from that cheap deal in recent years as the service has become a household name with gamers. It's finally available again for anyone who's been waiting for a reason to subscribe, though it's not as eye-popping a deal as it once was.
Gaming The Meta Quest family of headsets is getting their own version of PlayStation Plus Essential or Xbox Live Gold. Called Meta Quest+, this monthly subscription will give its subscribers two VR games to play every month.
Introducing Meta Quest+ | VR Title Subscription Meta Quest+ will cost $8 a month or $60 a year, although Meta is running a launch promotion where those who subscribe before July 31 will get their first month for $1. With that subscription, you'll get two games each month, which will stay in your library as long as you're subscribed to Meta Quest+. We've already learned which games will be coming to the service in July and August.
In July, Meta Quest+ subscribers will gain access to Pistol Whip and Pixel Ripped 1995. Pistol Whip is a pretty iconic VR game that mixes FPS and rhythm game mechanics, tasking players to shoot enemies and dodge bullets to beats of a variety of songs. Meanwhile, Pixel Ripped 1995 is a retro-inspired VR game that will have you playing a bunch of fake 16 and 32-bit games within VR as you follow the story of a kid growing up in the 90s.
In August, the two Meta Quest+ games are Walkabout Mini Golf and Mothergunship: Forge. Walkabout Mini Golf is a VR mini golf simulator that features multiplayer as well as a lot of DLC that features courses based on things like Labyrinth and Journey to the Center of the Earth. Mothergunship: Forge is an FPS roguelike where players must build their own weapons as they fight through the titular ship.
Meta Quest 2 and Quest Pro users can now subscribe to Meta Quest+; the Quest 3 will also support it when the headset launches later this year.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
