Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best GTA Games GTA 5 Cheats Fastest Cars in GTA 5 GTA 5 Mods GTA 6 Sell Cars in GTA 5 Home Gaming Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best GTA 5 mods By Jesse Lennox and Jon Bitner Close Since the release of Grand Theft Auto 5 , players have been arguing over which version of the game is better. Regardless of which side of the debate you’re on, most people can agree that the PC version comes with a few advantages such as the various number of mods you can add to the game.
Script Hook V and Native Trainer Complex Control Euphoria Ragdoll Overhaul Iron Man Mark 50 Spider-Man V World Improvement Superhot GTA RPG The Red House Open All Interiors Map Editor Fuel Script V Pedestrian Riot Field-of-view mod Bodyguard Menu Heist Vehicles Spawn Naturally Vehicle Cannon 2.0 Simple Zombies Intensity ENB For those looking to upgrade their gameplay, we’ve created a list of the best GTA 5 mods you won’t want to play without.
Script Hook V and Native Trainer Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re going to download any mods, download this first.
Script Hook V makes the game’s scripts available to others, and so is a requirement for some GTA 5 mods (often, they’ll bundle the scripthook .dll just to be sure). This mod also gives you access to a feature-rich trainer that can turn you into a virtual god.
Complex Control Image used with permission by copyright holder Grand Theft Auto V might be the most successful video game of all time, but Epic Games’ Fortnite is the biggest game in the world at the moment, so it only makes sense to combine the two! The Complex Control mod is a single-player “royale-lite” that spawns your character in a random location on the game’s enormous map, and you win if you’re able to stay in the last designated zone for four seconds. Though you won’t be able to play an actual battle royale match against other people, the proof-of-concept offered in Complex Control has us hoping for a full-on battle royale mode in the next Grand Theft Auto game.
Euphoria Ragdoll Overhaul Image used with permission by copyright holder Sometimes, you don’t need a fancy armor suit or a new mission to get the most out of Grand Theft Auto V.
 With the Euphoria Ragdoll Overhaul mod, the ragdoll physics in the game are improved significantly, with characters behaving more realistically after they’re damaged and before collapsing to the ground. Headshots will instantly send a person to the ground like a ragdoll, and civilians will react to nearby explosions by covering their heads.
Iron Man Mark 50 Image used with permission by copyright holder If the rocket launchers, planes, and explosives already available in Grand Theft Auto V aren’t enough for you, consider installing Iron Man Mark 50.
 Based on the suit Tony Stark wears in Avengers: Infinity War , it includes enormous wings on the back and transforms you into a walking weapon, capable of hovering in the air while you blast away at oncoming traffic with missiles. We’re not sure if you’ll survive the wrath of Thanos if you happen to run into him on the streets of Los Santos, but you’ll be able to cause quite a bit of chaos beforehand.
Spider-Man V Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re a bigger fan of the web-slinging Avenger, look no further than the Spider-Man V mod. Playing as Spidey himself, you can swing, zip, and wall crawl all around the GTA map to solve (or cause) crime. While it won’t be quite on the level as Marvel’s Spider-Man , you can’t do any better than this for a GTA Spider-Man mod.
World Improvement Image used with permission by copyright holder GTA 5 already looks phenomenal, and even functions as somewhat of a moving portrait when you aren’t around, but World Improvement mod boosts the realism. It focuses on small details, like additional trees in places like Rockford Hills. It also adds new characters, and A.I. routines, such as police searches through Paleto Forest and car crashes around Los Santos. The best part about this mod? It receives new updates to introduce tiny — but profound — details regularly, so Los Santos will evolve, just like a real city would.
Superhot Image used with permission by copyright holder The Superhot mod transplants Superhot ’s innovative time-stopping mechanics into GTA 5.
 When you stop moving, time stands still. While it seems like an odd choice for an open-world game like GTA 5, the Superhot mod feels right at home when in close-quarters combat. When back in the long game, you can toggle the mod off with the press of a button and resume normal play.
GTA RPG Image used with permission by copyright holder GTA 5 has a rich, open-world narrative, but it remains relatively linear throughout. The GTA 5 RPG mod adds a nonlinear story and skill progression system that makes it feel closer to Fallout than Grand Theft Auto.
 For starters, you can choose between three character classes. As you progress through missions using the mod’s quest system, you use skill trees to upgrade your character and weapons. There are even dialogue trees with NPCs and randomly generated loot and items.
The Red House Image used with permission by copyright holder If you find that replaying single-player missions is growing stale, The Red House mod features an abundance of new content to stave off boredom. The mod adds more than 20 missions to the game, including a new heist. Some missions even include NPC bodyguards that assist you in your endeavors. An update, called the “Blue House,” added a set of stealth-oriented missions to the mod. All in all, the mission variety is solid and well worth your time.
Open All Interiors Image used with permission by copyright holder Are you tired of not being able to enter the Sandy Shores sheriff’s department or any other locked building? The Open All Interiors mod gives you a full range of access to those previously off-limits places. What’s most remarkable part is that the mod repopulates all these spaces, even the ones which were removed before launch and never meant to be seen.
Map Editor Image used with permission by copyright holder Your wish is your command with this GTA 5 map editor.
 With the use of a free-roaming cam, you can easily place cars, ramps, and even animals throughout Los Santos, then hop in and play with your experiments. It’s a robust tool with a myriad of options, but best of all, it’s intuitive and simple to use.
Fuel Script V Image used with permission by copyright holder As realistic as GTA 5 can be in many aspects, one thing Rockstar chose not to simulate was running out of gas. This self-proclaimed first fuel mod for the game, Fuel Script V , adds a gas meter to every vehicle in the game. If you run dry, your car will stop just like in real life, so make sure to fill up at gas stations before going on a long drive.
Pedestrian Riot Image used with permission by copyright holder GTA: San Andreas had a cheat that made pedestrians go bonkers. It was hilarious to watch. Predictably, an intrepid modder has gone out of his way to re-create that experience as Pedestrian Riot.
 With the flip of a switch, you can send everyone into insanity, creating chaos wherever you go. The mod gives them weapons, too, so be careful! Field-of-view mod Image used with permission by copyright holder For the first time ever in the series, GTA 5 offers a first-person mode. Far from a tack-on, Rockstar put a lot of effort into making it work just like a real first-person shooter. One thing they missed, though, is dynamic field-of-view adjustment. The default FOV is a bit narrow, which makes some players feel claustrophobic, and others motion sick. With this field-of-view mod , you can change the FOV to whatever setting is comfortable for you.
Bodyguard Menu Image used with permission by copyright holder Why go it alone, when you can have a team backing you up? This bodyguard mod can spawn a variety of NPCs who will follow you around and assist you in whatever you’re doing. You can command them to do your bidding, or just stand around in formation looking tough. Up to seven bodyguards will follow you, but you can still spawn more after that. Creating an army just after you rouse up a 4-star police rating can be a literal riot.
Heist Vehicles Spawn Naturally Image used with permission by copyright holder Heists are a popular feature in GTA 5 ’s online mode. Many of them include unique vehicles. But what if you’re not interested in online play, and still want to use the vehicles? The Heist Vehicles Spawn Naturally mod lets you do just that. It doesn’t just give them to you off the bat, though; they spawn in certain areas for you to discover. Or if you just want to jump in, you can view the modder’s list of locations.
Vehicle Cannon 2.0 Image used with permission by copyright holder The world of Los Santos is crazy enough as-is, but this mod cranks it up to eleven.
Vehicle Cannon 2.0 gives players a weapon that swaps out bullets for full-sized vehicles. If that sounds crazy, well, that’s because it is. However, running around with the Vehicle Canon is an absolute blast — just don’t fire it in a confined space.
Simple Zombies Image used with permission by copyright holder Turn the world of Los Santos into an apocalyptic wasteland with the Simple Zombies mod.
 Instead of hundreds of pedestrians, the city is filled with thousands of undead, brain-hungry monsters. The mod adds more than just zombies, as players will need to build shelters and recruit survivors in order to make it out alive, all while managing their hunger, sleep, and health levels. A complete survival mod, players looking for strategic gameplay should be happy with what Simple Zombies has to offer.
Intensity ENB Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re still disappointed by Cyberpunk 2077 , install the Intensity ENB mod on your PC as a nice alternative. As you might have guessed from the name, this mod intensifies GTA 5’s backgrounds, making Los Santos shine brightly during the day and casting an otherworldly mood over it at night. The extreme environments might not be the same as Cyberpunk, but it’s a fun mod to mess around with until you can play the actual game.
Editors' Recommendations The PS5 games with the best graphics Grand Theft Auto 6 is getting its first trailer sooner than you think The best Devil May Cry 5 mods The best weapon mods in Remnant 2 The bestselling video games of all time Action Games Grand Theft Auto Gaming With the addition of the Ultra Hand and Fuse abilities in The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, it might feel like you're already playing the game with mods enabled. This power lets you pick up, connect, build, and combine nearly every item in Hyrule. We've already seen people push the boundaries with what they can create using the default tools, but there will always be some things just out of reach for players. Well, that is until mods are entered into the equation. Because Tears of the Kingdom is a Switch game, mods take a bit more work to not only make but play as well. Unlike PC games, you can't just download a file, plop it in your game, and go. If you're willing to put in a little work, there are some amazing mods out there to add another couple dozen hours to your playtime. Here are the best mods in Tears of the Kingdom.
How to mod Tears of the Kingdom If you are just looking to play mods, not create them, then the process isn't terribly complex. There is a nice tutorial laid out you can follow here, which also includes a link to the Tears of the Kingdom modding Discord where you can go if you need to ask more specific questions.
Rinkuru v0.5.3/Rinkuru Pronouns and Dialogue For those a bit out of the loop, Rinkuru is the Japanese name for the female Link we know as Linkle from the Hyrule Warriors games. It has since been adapted to simply be the female version of Link. If you were disappointed that you couldn't play as a female in Tears of the Kingdom, these two mods effectively add in a female option. Rinkuru v0.5.3 is a complete model swap from Link to Rinkruru, including new outfits and even some weapons. The companion mod, Rinkuru Pronouns and Dialogue, changes all instances of game dialogue from referring to your character as Link, he, sir, and all other male pronouns are swapped to Rinkuru, she, lady, and so on to fully immerse you as the heroine of Hyrule.
Yet Another Better Sages Mod - With Voices Yet Another Better Sages Mod Gaming Since its release in 2011, more than 200 million copies of Minecraft have sold, and its continued popularity on YouTube over the years will only add to that record-breaking number. Despite the high number of popular Minecraft clones, youngsters and veteran gamers alike keep coming back to the original, in part because of how easy it is to find Minecraft mods that add a fresh spin on a classic experience.
We've sifted through heaps of weird and silly mods to find the best UI improvements, visual filters, new gameplay mechanics, and cool ideas that will keep Minecraft from becoming stale.
Gaming If you only see advertisements for games on TV and the internet, you might think that the only games made anymore are targeted at older teens and young adults. Everywhere you look is a soldier with a gun or a knight with a bloody sword. However, just because they don't get the same marketing push as these more mature games, there are still plenty of games appropriate for all ages, kids included, coming out every year. The PlayStation 5 alone is home to some of the most kid-friendly franchises on the market, thanks to adorable mascot characters and plenty of smaller, colorful titles that offer a wide range of gameplay possibilities.
If you're looking for a game for kids, the sheer number of possibilities can be intimidating. You could spend hours sifting through all the options out there, and even if you go by the age rating, that won't tell you if the game is actually good or not. That's why we've curated this list of the best PS5 games for kids to help you find the right game for gamers of any age. We've made sure to include games from a variety of genres, styles, and lengths to give you the best information possible before making a purchase. Just remember to still check on the details of a game's ESRB rating to see what content is included.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
