Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Products The best multiplayer games on the PS5 By Jesse Lennox Close The PlayStation 3 certainly had its fair share of multiplayer games, but these kinds of games didn’t hit their stride until the PlayStation 4.
 Thankfully, multiplayer games are once again at the forefront of the best games on PS5.
 Despite the system being relatively new, there are already a ton of games to try out — whether via online or local multiplayer co-op games.
 Before picking up a new PS5, you might be wondering what kind of multiplayer games Sony’s new system has to offer.
There are lots to choose from, but for this list, we’ve rounded up the very best multiplayer games available on the PS5 right now.
Baldur's Gate 3 PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Google Stadia Role-playing (RPG), Strategy, Turn-based strategy (TBS), Tactical, Adventure Larian Studios Larian Studios October 06, 2020 Read less Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
It Takes Two PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Platform, Adventure Hazelight Studios Electronic Arts March 25, 2021 Serving as one of the most inventive cooperative games of the past decade, It Takes Two is not playable solo. Designed with co-op multiplayer in mind, this is a game about two parents who are on the brink of divorce. While the story itself might leave a little to be desired, the gameplay is outstanding, offering smart puzzles and obstacles that must be overcome through jolly cooperation. The setpieces are wild, the gameplay is varied, and the sheer imaginative design is unlike anything we’ve seen in recent memory. This game is true to its name, too, as it drives home the idea of working together. This theme is presented in the gameplay, as well as in the story, as the two still have to be there for their daughter. The best thing is that you only need one copy to play — each one comes with a pass so you can enjoy it with a friend without having to purchase two.
Read less Destiny 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Google Stadia Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Tactical, Adventure Bungie Activision September 06, 2017 There’s never been a better time to dive into Destiny 2 , a game that has come a long way since its launch in 2017. It’s even better on PS5, running at 4K resolution at 60 frames per second. While you can definitely play Destiny 2 solo, much of it is designed with multiplayer in mind — whether you join friends to take on a raid or fight against them in the game’s PvP mode, The Crucible.
Destiny 2 ‘s greatest selling point is its gameplay loop, which constantly encourages you to grind to collect more loot. Beyond that, it simply feels incredible — we’d expect nothing less from Bungie, the creators of Halo.
Though Destiny 2 was available for $60 at launch, it has since been converted to a free-to-play game, with paid expansions available periodically. But that means you can dive in and try it out without spending a dime.
Read less Mortal Kombat 1 PC (Microsoft Windows), Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Fighting, Adventure NetherRealm Studios WB Games September 19, 2023 Perhaps fighting games are more your jam. If so, you’ll be happy to know that Mortal Kombat 1 is yet another hit from the bloody franchise. Following the events of Mortal Kombat 11, this is a reboot of sorts so is easy for anyone to get into, though you’re likely more focused on the multiplayer than story mode anyway. In that regard, you have a huge roster of characters to punch, kick, blast, and dismember your opponents with. This title also brings in Kameo Fighters as assists to allow for even crazier combos and Fatalities. With a roadmap of new characters, including plenty of crossovers, to come, this is a fighting game you can safely invest in.[/dt_media Borderlands 3 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Google Stadia Shooter Gearbox Software 2K Games September 13, 2019 Read less Tiny Tina's Wonderlands PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Gearbox Software 2K Games March 25, 2022 Read less Godfall PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Counterplay Games Gearbox Publishing November 12, 2020 Read less Fortnite PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, Android, iOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Strategy Epic Games Epic Games July 25, 2017 Read less No Man's Sky PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Meta Rift Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Simulator, Adventure, Indie Hello Games Hello Games, 505 Games, Sony Interactive Entertainment August 09, 2016 Read less Overcooked! All You Can Eat PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Simulator, Strategy, Indie Team17, Ghost Town Games Team17 November 12, 2020 Read less Sackboy: A Big Adventure PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 Platform, Adventure Sumo Digital Sony Interactive Entertainment November 12, 2020 An online multiplayer mode will be available later this year. But for now, you can play the game in couch co-op with up to four players. If you want a fun platformer to enjoy solo or with friends, or if you’ve got younger gamers at home, Sackboy: A Big Adventure is worth checking out.
Read less Demon's Souls PlayStation 5 Role-playing (RPG), Hack and slash/Beat 'em up Bluepoint Games Sony Interactive Entertainment November 12, 2020 Demon’s Souls might not be the first game people think about when talking about multiplayer, but online play is at this game’s core. Playing Demon’s Souls is most enjoyable when taking advantage of multiplayer. You’ll be invaded by enemy players, get help from friends, and utilize the community to manipulate the game’s World Tendency. And trust us, you’re going to need the help when it’s time to take on the game’s toughest bosses.
The Souls games are notoriously difficult, as you probably already know, and Demon’s Souls for PS5 is no different. Remember, though, that the bosses gain extra health when you bring in real players to help, so keep that in mind before you go on a summoning spree. Typically, you’ll only ever need one additional player to take down a challenging foe. Make sure to be on the lookout for enemy invaders, though, as they can easily take you down from behind if you aren’t paying attention.
Demon’s Souls is iconic for a reason, so do yourself a favor and check it out if you like RPG gaming.
Read less Apex Legends PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Respawn Entertainment Electronic Arts February 04, 2019 Read less Puyo Puyo Tetris 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Puzzle, Arcade Sega SEGA of America, Sega, Sega Europe December 07, 2020 Read less Rocket League Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Racing, Sport, Indie Psyonix Psyonix July 07, 2015 Read less Final Fantasy XIV: Endwalker PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Square Enix Square Enix December 07, 2021 Read less Back 4 Blood PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Turtle Rock Studios Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment October 12, 2021 Read less WWE 2K22 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Fighting, Simulator, Sport Visual Concepts 2K Sports March 11, 2022 Read less Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Infinity Ward Activision Blizzard October 28, 2022 Read less Overwatch 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Blizzard Entertainment Blizzard Entertainment October 04, 2022 Read less Elden Ring PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG), Adventure FromSoftware Bandai Namco Entertainment, FromSoftware February 25, 2022 Read less Minecraft: Legends PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Strategy, Arcade Mojang Studios, Blackbird Interactive Xbox Game Studios April 18, 2023 Read less Street Fighter 6 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Fighting, Arcade Capcom Capcom June 02, 2023 Fighting games aren’t for everyone, but Street Fighter 6 succeeds at appealing to a wider audience than ever before. It does so without sacrificing its deep mechanics, which experts will no doubt appreciate with this installment. But it also includes a rich story mode, with tons of other ways to enjoy it, especially online against friends. Once you master the art of combat in this entry, taking your battles online is the height of the experience, rewarding you for learning the game’s intricacies.
Street Fighter 6 is full of style and is easily the most appealing fighting game in recent memory.
Read less Diablo IV PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG), Hack and slash/Beat 'em up Blizzard Entertainment Blizzard Entertainment June 02, 2023 Read less Editors' Recommendations The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals worth shopping now Best gaming monitor Black Friday deals on 165, 240 and 360Hz Best PS5 SSD Black Friday deals: Add more storage to your PS5 now Best Products Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming The DualSense wireless controller that arrives with your PlayStation 5 is by no means an inferior gaming product. However, it does fall short for players who want to do a little more with their control methods.
Sony has acknowledged some shortcomings with its release of the new DualSense Edge, as well as the upcoming project Leonardo that caters to gamers with disabilities, but there are some third-party options that can fit your needs just as well.
Computing As Black Friday approaches, some early deals are popping up on luxury tech that you might not consider buying without a discount. If you've been gaming on a standard keyboard, or even the built-in on your laptop, it might be time to upgrade to a real gaming keyboard. Black Friday deals give you the option to buy some for as cheap as $20. We've pulled our favorite gaming keyboard deal currently available as well as some other good options like Logitech, Razer and Corsair.
Best gaming keyboard Black Friday deal Our favorite gaming keyboard deal in early Black Friday sales is this discount on the ASUS ROG Strix Flare RGB Mechanical Keyboard. The Asus ROG Strix Flare II topped the list of the best gaming keyboards, so it's only fitting that the older model would be our favorite current deal. You can grab the Strix Flare I for $110 at Walmart, which is $41 off its regular price of $151. This is an early Black Friday deal, but that doesn't mean it will stick around for the rest of the shopping holiday.
Gaming If your chair is ripping apart or just plain not comfortable anymore, now is a great time to get a new one. As it turns out, Black Friday deals are in full swing, even though it is earlier than when we would traditionally start thinking about the shopping holiday. That means you can get tons of gaming chairs, including some of the best gaming chairs, for incredibly low prices. At this point, one deal is sticking out to us like a sore thumb. As a result, we'll be putting extra attention on it during this article. However, if you want a more comprehensive list of great early Black Friday gaming chair deals, we've got them at the bottom.
Best gaming chair Black Friday deal The blue AKRacing Core Series EX Gaming Chair is our favorite Black Friday deal so far, and for many reasons. To start with obvious factors, it is discounted by over 25%. You can get your blue AKRacing Core Series EX Gaming Chair for $280 today, while it would be $400 on a regular day. That's a savings of $120. Another big factor is that it is an official Best Buy Black Friday deal, and is labelled as such. That gives us a ton of confidence in its price being the best price available.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
