Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best GTA Games GTA 5 Cheats Fastest Cars in GTA 5 GTA 5 Mods GTA 6 Sell Cars in GTA 5 Home Gaming Guides The fastest cars in GTA 5 By Jesse Lennox Close Half the fun of Grand Theft Auto V and GTA Online is cruising around Los Santos in lightning-fast supercars. There’s no shortage of incredible vehicles available to players, but trying to figure out which is the fastest isn’t as straightforward as you’d think. Some might dominate in a drag race, yet end up in a ditch if you put them on a winding track. Others might excel around hairpin turns, but lack in overall horsepower. The following list is based strictly on each car’s top speed, as trying to rate other traits — such as handling and cornering abilities — is highly subjective and up to personal preference. While we eagerly await a new fleet of cars to steal and race in Grand Theft Auto 6 , here are the 10 fastest cars in Grand Theft Auto V.
Overflod Entity XXR (128mph) Pfister 811 (133mph) Principe Deveste Eight (132mph) Bravado Banshee 900R (131mph) Invetero Coquette D10 (130mph) Pegassi Toros (128mph) Grotti Itali RSX (135mph) Truffade Nero Custom (127mph) Ocelot Pariah (136mph) Weevil Custom (137mph) Further reading GTA 5 cheats and secrets Rockstar Games director leaves studio Bestselling games of all time Overflod Entity XXR (128mph) Image used with permission by copyright holder The Entity is a powerhouse right off the assembly line, but only gets faster as you add more power to its engine upgrades. What really sets this supercar apart from the rest is its amazing traction that gives it the ability to make buttery-smooth turns even while running the engine ragged. This one is going to cost you quite a bit at $2,305,000, but its hard to argue with its performance.
Pfister 811 (133mph) Image used with permission by copyright holder Although you wouldn’t guess it, the 811 is actually a bit slower than the Pariah. Featuring deep swoops and a traditional over-the-top spoiler, the 811 looks like a powerhouse of a vehicle. And to be fair, it is — albeit a bit too slow to take the No. 1 spot on this list. However, the 811 is much cheaper than the Pariah, clocking in at $1,135,000 from Legendary Motorsport.
Principe Deveste Eight (132mph) Image used with permission by copyright holder The Mazda Furai lives on in the Principe Deveste Eight. This fictional car takes strong cues from Mazda’s futuristic prototype, with an extended boot and a low profile that feeds air into the car’s internals, keeping things nice and cool during intense race conditions. That fancy engineering adds up, and the Deveste Eight’s price tag comes in at a massive $1,795,000.
Bravado Banshee 900R (131mph) Image used with permission by copyright holder A staple in the GTA catalog for years, the Banshee continues to be one of the fastest cars in the game. Modeled around the Mazda RX-7 and Dodge Viper, the coupe-convertible is a lightweight car that’s a blast to throw around curvy tracks and hairpin turns. For just $565,000, the Banshee 900R offers a lot of bang for your buck.
Invetero Coquette D10 (130mph) Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s not likely to be disputed that this is among the best-looking cars in all of GTA. Its aggressive styling and tight control make it a popular choice for racers of all skill levels, but its high price of $1,510,000 makes it a trademark of the ultrarich.
Pegassi Toros (128mph) Image used with permission by copyright holder As one of the few SUVs on the list, the Toros makes the ideal getaway car for larger crews. Better yet, it boasts a top speed that is more than capable of helping it hang with the most expensive supercars.
 Surprise your rivals by pulling up to the track in a Pegassi Toros, and keep that hard-earned cash in your pocket — Legendary Motorsport is selling it for just $498,000.
Grotti Itali RSX (135mph) Image used with permission by copyright holder The Itali RSX might be the wildest-looking car you can buy in GTA Online.
 With a bold design featuring cutouts, bezels, and an angular front bumper, it certainly fits the vision of a typical supercar. It’s not the best when it comes to braking, but if you’re looking to go fast, it’s hard to find something better. All this power can be yours for the astronomical price of $3,465,000.
Truffade Nero Custom (127mph) Image used with permission by copyright holder Toeing the line between understated and aggressive is the Nero Custom. Modeled after the Bugatti Vision Gran Turismo, the Nero Custom is a powerful machine — if not a bit heavy. Great speed, fast acceleration, and impeccable handling are all wrapped up in a package that can be had for $605,000. If you’re not keen to drop a few million on a wild supercar, we’d highly recommend giving this one a look.
Ocelot Pariah (136mph) Image used with permission by copyright holder Barely coming in at second, the Ocelot Pariah can at least still claim the title of best-looking fast car in the game. This is a great road and highway racer that has little to no traction off-road. It is decently priced for the power you’re getting at $1,420,000, but is certainly worth it just for the visual appeal.
Weevil Custom (137mph) Image used with permission by copyright holder Added with the Criminal Enterprises update, the Weevil blows past all other cars in GTAV.
Based on the Beetle Rat Rod, this unassuming car may not look like it can tear up the track, but its top speed is no joke. Despite how fast it is, it actually isn’t all that expensive compared to everything else on this list, costing just $980,000.
Editors' Recommendations GTA 6: release date speculation, trailer, news, rumors, and more The best multiplayer games on the PS5 Grand Theft Auto V makes its surprise return to Xbox Game Pass today GTA 5 cheats: codes and phone numbers PS4, PS5, Xbox, and PC The best GTA characters of all-time Action Games Grand Theft Auto Gaming For years, players have been limited in how many cars they were able to store and showcase in their garages in GTA Online. After dozens of updates introduced a host of new properties, vehicles, weapons, and other features, Rockstar has finally given the players a larger garage to show off their collection. This new garage, the Eclipse Blvd 50-car garage, is a massive, five-story-tall garage that is, as you can guess, located on the pristine Eclipse Blvd. However, just having the cash and knowing where this swanky garage is isn't quite enough to actually purchase it. GTA Online has a host of ways to buy properties and items, so here's how you can become the proud owner of the Eclipse Blvd 50-car garage.
How to buy the Eclipse Blvd 50-car garage Before getting into the actual process of purchasing the Eclipse Blvd 50-car garage, there's good news and bad news. The good news is that there are no requirements in terms of progression, level, or anything else of that sort that you need to meet before you have the option to buy it. The bad news, which is the case with all properties in GTA Online is that it is expensive. In this case, you will need to make sure you have a healthy bank account with at least $2,740,000 ready to drop. Once you've got the cash, here's how to buy your new garage.
Gaming Few video game series are as legendary as Grand Theft Auto, which made a name for itself thanks to developer Rockstar Games. GTA has been around since 1997, spanning numerous console generations, and taking place during versions of the 1960s to the 2020s. It's a controversial series that has been featured in the news for its violence and adult themes, but this has led to even more sales, increasing its allure and popularity.
Beyond its controversies, the Grand Theft Auto series is comprised of fantastic games -- some of which have completely revolutionized the medium as a whole. Many modern hits owe a lot to the Grand Theft Auto series, proving just how important these games are, even decades later.
Gaming There are a lot of ways to make money in the world of Grand Theft Auto V, but none are more apt that stealing and selling cars. Not only is it a pastime befitting its namesake, it's also a fun way to earn a few bucks while roaming the streets of Los Santos. There's just one way to sell cars in GTA 5, but thankfully, offloading your stolen goods is a very straightforward process.
Steal a car Before you can even think about selling a vehicle, you're going to have to get your hands on one. Common cars will sell for at least $1,000 each, but it's worth your time to seek out expensive luxury and sports cars. Here's a good rule of thumb to follow -- the nicer the car looks, the more valuable it usually is. We've had good luck finding expensive vehicles on the streets around Rockford Hills, but head to any upscale shopping area and you're bound to see a few.
Once you've found your vehicle of interest, simply hijack or hot-wire it and evade the police. Try to do as little damage to it as possible, since cars in better condition fetch a higher price. Most of the time, you can simply speed down the road and find a quiet hiding spot in an alley to shake the low-effort manhunt. As soon as the coast is clear and you have no stars, you're ready to offload your new ride.
How to sell cars in GTA 5 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
