Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best GTA Games GTA 5 Cheats Fastest Cars in GTA 5 GTA 5 Mods GTA 6 Sell Cars in GTA 5 Home Gaming Guides How to sell cars in GTA 5 By Jon Bitner Close There are a lot of ways to make money in the world of Grand Theft Auto V , but none are more apt that stealing and selling cars. Not only is it a pastime befitting its namesake, it’s also a fun way to earn a few bucks while roaming the streets of Los Santos. There’s just one way to sell cars in GTA 5 , but thankfully, offloading your stolen goods is a very straightforward process.
Steal a car How to sell cars in GTA 5 Valuable cars Steal a car Before you can even think about selling a vehicle, you’re going to have to get your hands on one. Common cars will sell for at least $1,000 each, but it’s worth your time to seek out expensive luxury and sports cars. Here’s a good rule of thumb to follow — the nicer the car looks, the more valuable it usually is. We’ve had good luck finding expensive vehicles on the streets around Rockford Hills, but head to any upscale shopping area and you’re bound to see a few.
Once you’ve found your vehicle of interest, simply hijack or hot-wire it and evade the police. Try to do as little damage to it as possible, since cars in better condition fetch a higher price. Most of the time, you can simply speed down the road and find a quiet hiding spot in an alley to shake the low-effort manhunt. As soon as the coast is clear and you have no stars, you’re ready to offload your new ride.
How to sell cars in GTA 5 Image used with permission by copyright holder Unfortunately, there’s only one retailer who is willing to purchase your stolen goods: Los Santos Customs. They have four locations scattered across the map, but no matter which you end up at, they’ll always purchase your vehicle.
Here’s where you can find them: Los Santos International Airport La Mesa Grand Senora Desert Burton To sell your car, simply drive into Los Santos Custom’s garage. This will pull up the same menu used to modify your ride, but it also houses the option to trade it in for cash. Navigate to the bottom of the menu until you see the Sell tab. From there, it’s just a matter of confirming your selection and reaping the rewards.
Valuable cars If you’ve been playing GTA 5 for a while and know your cars, it pays dividends to look for the following vehicles. The exact payment price will vary based on damage done to the vehicle and whether you stole it or are reselling one you purchased, but all are among the most valuable in the game: Albany Buccaneer Benefactor Schwartzer Canis Mesa Declasse Tornado Convertible Gallivanter Baller Gallivanter Baller II Lampadati Felon Lampadati Felon GT Obey Rocoto Ubermacht Sentinel Ubermacht Oracle Ubermacht Oracle XS Interestingly, these aren’t the fastest cars in GTA 5 — some cars are just too hot for Los Santos Customs to handle.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music Grand Theft Auto 6 is getting its first trailer sooner than you think How to preorder Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 and the limited edition PS5 Rockstar Games’ co-founder just formed an ‘absurd’ new studio GTA 5 cheats: codes and phone numbers PS4, PS5, Xbox, and PC How-To Action Games Grand Theft Auto Gaming Ever since the GTA franchise became what it is today with Grand Theft Auto 3, Rockstar has packed their worlds full of colorful and rich characters. While we've only been able to control male characters up until now (though that is set to change if the GTA 6 rumors are true), they have all had distinct and interesting personalities and stories. That said, sometimes it's the side characters that can steal the show too. Looking back at the entire series, we've come up with our picks for the best GTA characters of all time.
Carl 'CJ' Johnson -- GTA: San Andreas Good old Carl Johnson, better known as CJ, is way more than just a meme. San Andreas was the second game in the series to really focus on character in a major way, and the team nailed it with their lead. Not only was the entire cast filled with bonafide actors, but CJ's personal story as a gang member whose mother is murdered was far more nuanced and emotional than the media would lead you to believe. The real draw was the relationship CJ had with the main antagonist Officer Tenpenny (who may or may not be mentioned later on). This game set the standard for how Rockstar would reveal more about the characters and world through casual conversation throughout the story.
Tommy Vercetti -- GTA: Vice City Gaming For years, players have been limited in how many cars they were able to store and showcase in their garages in GTA Online. After dozens of updates introduced a host of new properties, vehicles, weapons, and other features, Rockstar has finally given the players a larger garage to show off their collection. This new garage, the Eclipse Blvd 50-car garage, is a massive, five-story-tall garage that is, as you can guess, located on the pristine Eclipse Blvd. However, just having the cash and knowing where this swanky garage is isn't quite enough to actually purchase it. GTA Online has a host of ways to buy properties and items, so here's how you can become the proud owner of the Eclipse Blvd 50-car garage.
How to buy the Eclipse Blvd 50-car garage Before getting into the actual process of purchasing the Eclipse Blvd 50-car garage, there's good news and bad news. The good news is that there are no requirements in terms of progression, level, or anything else of that sort that you need to meet before you have the option to buy it. The bad news, which is the case with all properties in GTA Online is that it is expensive. In this case, you will need to make sure you have a healthy bank account with at least $2,740,000 ready to drop. Once you've got the cash, here's how to buy your new garage.
Gaming Few video game series are as legendary as Grand Theft Auto, which made a name for itself thanks to developer Rockstar Games. GTA has been around since 1997, spanning numerous console generations, and taking place during versions of the 1960s to the 2020s. It's a controversial series that has been featured in the news for its violence and adult themes, but this has led to even more sales, increasing its allure and popularity.
Beyond its controversies, the Grand Theft Auto series is comprised of fantastic games -- some of which have completely revolutionized the medium as a whole. Many modern hits owe a lot to the Grand Theft Auto series, proving just how important these games are, even decades later.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
