Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features I use Steam every day, and I couldn’t live without these 6 hidden features By Jacob Roach Close There are only two apps that automatically open when I turn on my PC: Microsoft Teams and Steam. Steam, for many, is just a gateway to play games on PC, but it’s a piece of software dense with features that go beyond tracking playtime and achievements.
File transfer Pin the overlay Organize your messy library Make your games run smoother Launch in Big Picture Get disappointed in your life I wanted to highlight some of the Steam features that I get the most mileage out of. Keep in mind that there are a ton of options in Steam, and this list barely scratches everything that the platform has to offer. These are just the features I think you should be taking advantage of because they make Steam much more than just a launcher for your games.
File transfer Jacob Roach / Digital Trends One of the best new features of Steam is local file transfer, but you’d be forgiven if you didn’t hear about it. Steam quietly rolled it out a few months ago, and it’s something you need to manually enable to use. The local file transfer option allows you to transfer game files over your local network instead of re-downloading them. For example, if you have Cyberpunk 2077 installed on your PC and want to also play it on your Steam Deck , you can just copy the files from your PC instead of re-downloading them.
I couldn’t live without this simple desktop YouTube feature This is the one accessory every Steam Deck owner should buy I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore This is usually much faster, especially if you don’t have a great internet connection, and it can avoid overage fees if you have a bandwidth limit. You can even set it up to allow Steam friends to transfer games , which is particularly useful if you want to set up a LAN party like it’s 1999.
To turn it on, click the Steam button in the top left and select Settings.
Scroll down to the Downloads tab and tick the Game file transfer over local network option on. You’ll need to have this on for the PC you’re transferring from and to. After that, select if you want to share your connection with others — you shouldn’t in most cases — and you’re good to go.
After that, Steam will automatically transfer files it finds on the local network, as long as the PC you’re transferring from is turned on and Steam is running. You can stop the transfer at any point from the downloads screen, and if the local transfer is too slow, Steam will revert back to a normal download.
Pin the overlay Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Steam recently overhauled its overlay, and there are a ton of features in it now. You can access the Steam overlay at any time while playing a game by hitting Shift + Tab.
There, you’ll be able to see your friends list, your current and total playtime, and even browse the store through a built-in browser.
That’s all well and good, but with the update, you can now pin items so that they’ll show up even when you close the overlay. This is super useful in a few cases. First, you can pin your achievements so you can keep track of your progress while you play. You can also browse community guides from the overlay and pin them to your screen, which is great if you’re following a walkthrough without a second monitor.
By far my favorite new feature, though, is the notepad. Like the other elements, you can pin the notepad to your screen. There are a ton of uses for this, from writing down a door code to keeping track of a puzzle solution to scratching down a reminder to backtrack to a certain location.
Organize your messy library Jacob Roach / Digital Trends For years, Steam has allowed you to organize your library into collections. You can find them by selecting the Library tab and choosing Collections.
You can name it whatever you want and drag the games you want inside, but my preferred way to do it is to create a Dynamic Collection.
Dynamic Collections will automatically find the games in your library that meet the criteria you set. You can filter games out by their genre, if they support single-player and/or multiplayer, and even their store tags. Steam goes further by letting you select controller support, Steam Deck verification, features like Steam Workshop and achievements, and even if a friend owns the same game.
For example, I could instantly create a collection of multiplayer games that are Verified on Steam Deck that supports achievements and that one of my Steam friends also owns. This is a great way to quickly filter your library, especially if you’re looking for a particular type of game to play. And, if there are games you want to add or remove, you can still manually do so in a Dynamic Collection.
Make your games run smoother Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Steam includes a feature called Shader Pre-Caching, and I’d bet that most Steam users aren’t even aware of it. This feature allows Steam to find shaders for your current hardware configuration from similar configurations and automatically store them in the cache, usually only taking up a few megabytes of space on your hard drive.
Why would you want to do this? Whenever you start a new game, your CPU needs to prepare a bunch of shaders for your graphics card.
 These are basically tiny programs that tell your graphics card what to do. This only happens when you first start a game, though, which can lead to stuttering and long loading times as all of the shaders are gathered. The Shader Pre-Caching feature gathers them before you start the game and stores them in a cache so you can avoid the initial launch issues.
To enable it, select Steam and go to Settings.
Scroll down to the Downloads tab and tick the Enable Shader Pre-caching option. After that, you’re good to go. Unfortunately, this feature only works with games that use Vulkan or OpenGL.
DirectX shaders can’t be pre-compiled through Steam.
Launch in Big Picture Jacob Roach / Digital Trends After launching the Steam Deck, Valve gave its Steam Big Picture mode a much-needed update. If you’re unfamiliar, Big Picture is a controller-based interface for Steam, and now, it basically looks identical to a Steam Deck. And if you primarily play with a controller, you can launch Steam into Big Picture mode automatically.
Select the Steam button in the top left corner and navigate to Settings.
From there, select Interface and tick the box next to Start Steam in Big Picture mode.
This is a great option to have, especially if you have your PC hooked up to a TV and don’t want to fuss around with a keyboard and mouse.
In this same menu, you can configure a bunch of other settings, as well, such as the default location that Steam starts — it normally loads you into the store — and the tabs you want to see at the top of the Steam interface.
Get disappointed in your life Jacob Roach / Digital Trends OK, this isn’t a feature of Steam itself, but it is a cool feature that’s enabled by Steam. Steam has an open API, and there’s a ton of data that Steam tracks that you’ll never see in the standard interface. Thankfully, you can access almost all of it through SteamDB.
SteamDB is the unofficial database for everything on Steam. It shows you build IDs, player counts, price history, updates — the list goes on and on. It even tracks sales for games, and if you sign in, you can set up filters and be notified when certain games drop to a price you set.
But, out of all the features SteamDB offers, the best is undoubtedly the Steam Calculator. Enter your Steam profile URL or Steam ID (the number you can find at the end of your Steam profile URL), and click the Get disappointed in your life button to see the value of your Steam library. It shows you the number of games in your library, how much they’re worth at their lowest and highest prices, your average playtime per game, and the amount of money you’ve spent per hour of playtime, among a dozen other metrics.
There are enough features in SteamDB for its own article. We only scratched the surface, but if you’re a staunch PC gamer that plays most of their games on Steam, it’s definitely a great resource to be aware of.
Editors' Recommendations What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld 4K gaming monitors are getting cheaper, but I still won’t buy one You’ll have to wait a long time for a Steam Deck 2 AMD might still have some next-gen GPUs left in the tank — but I don’t buy it Gaming Features PC Gaming Computing The SSD upgrade you've been waiting on for the Steam Deck and ROG Ally is here. Western Digital revealed its WD_Black SN770M, which is an M.2 2230 SSD that's built specifically for handheld gaming devices.
The new drive is available in three capacities: 500GB, 1TB, and the coveted 2TB size. It's tough to find M.2 2230 SSDs for the Steam Deck, and even tougher to find them at 2TB. Up to this point, popular options have included the Sabrent Rocket and Corsair MP600. Otherwise, you'd have to stalk retailers like Newegg and Amazon to find a good deal on a Micron drive repurposed from another device.
Computing By nearly all objective measures, the ROG Ally is better than the Steam Deck. It has solid battery life, a nicer screen, more power, and Windows 11, allowing it to access a much wider library of games than the Steam Deck offers. After four months of using both devices, though, I'm fine keeping my Steam Deck.
That might surprise you, especially if you caught my ROG Ally review when I first took a look at the device nearly four months ago. I even tried replacing my desktop with the device on the strength of Asus' impressive XG Mobile. But after using the ROG Ally for just about every purpose possible, I've been picking up my Steam Deck to play games.
What you want, what you need Computing I knew when AMD announced the Ryzen 9 7945HX3D that it would be a great gaming laptop CPU. It was even more clear when AMD announced it would release first in the Asus ROG Strix Scar 17, which is one of the fastest gaming laptops you can buy. I've tested it, and it lives up to AMD's hype. But I still don't think you should buy it yet. Let me explain.
Between reviewing desktop CPUs like the Ryzen 7 7800X3D and the Asus ROG Strix Scar 17 itself (read our Asus Scar 17 review for more), this new chip didn't hold any surprises. It's AMD's fastest laptop CPU, bolstered by the company's remarkable 3D V-Cache to boost gaming performance. It's a known quantity.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
