Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Nope, I still don’t regret buying my Steam Deck By Jacob Roach Close It sucks being an early adopter. After using Asus’ new ROG Ally for a few hours — you can read my Asus ROG Ally review for my full thoughts — I was ready to feel massive regret over buying my Steam Deck.
 It’s a tired story; but it remains true that being an early adopter rarely pays off.
Built for emulation A perfect match The Steam Deck isn’t dead There’s more to the story of how these two products match up , though, than just faster hardware and more games. Despite how I feel about the ROG Ally, there’s one big reason I don’t plan on selling my Steam Deck anytime soon: emulation.
Built for emulation Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The ROG Ally might be more than well-equipped to emulate games, but the Steam Deck does it flawlessly.
That’s mainly due to EmuDeck , the open-source emulation configuration tool built specifically for Valve’s handheld. It downloads emulators for you, sure, but the tool does so much more.
It goes through the process of configuring them for optimal performance, sets up a massive folder hierarchy where you can put your games and BIOS files, automatically sets up hotkeys, and even allows you to backup your saves with cloud storage services.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The biggest boost for me, though, is that EmuDeck includes Steam ROM Manager. This tool searches your library and automatically adds your emulated games to your Steam library, complete with art and their own collection based on the console. Once you’ve gone through the process of setting up EmuDeck — which, admittedly, is a bit of a hassle — you can just play your games from the standard SteamOS screen. It feels natural, like you’re playing any other Steam game.
All of this is possible on Windows — in fact, EmuDeck is working on a Windows version right now — but none of it is automatic. You’ll have to manually back up your saves, individually configure each emulator you want to use, and go through File Explorer to launch your games. Or at the very least, you need manually add all of them to Steam, which doesn’t really solve the problem.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends That pick-up-and-play experience is something the ROG Ally struggles with overall, but the blow is lessened when playing modern games by the Armoury Crate utility. That’s not the case for emulated games. You can add your emulators to Armoury Crate, but not your games.
A perfect match It’s not just EmuDeck. SteamOS itself it better-suited for emulating games. The first reason is that you can easily remap controls through the overlay, instead of a separate app, and you can browse community profiles. There are a few emulators that won’t pick up on an integrated controller, or the mapping will be off. Again, you can rebind controls with the ROG Ally, but you’d have to do it manually and tie it to the emulator through Armoury Crate.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The big change, though, is that you can force a game to close with the Steam Deck. There’s no way to do that on the ROG Ally, outside of swiping to the desktop, holding the app, and trying to narrowly fit your finger on the Close Window button. This is annoying with a modern game on the ROG Ally, but it’s almost a deal breaker for emulation.
Emulators aren’t perfect, and if you frequently play games this way, you already know how often you have to shut the game down and reboot it to change a configuration or reset the game. That’s not to mention swapping between games. If you’re emulating MAME games, for example, the time it takes to swap between titles on the Steam Deck is significantly less than on the ROG Ally.
A prime example of the hassle of the ROG Ally came up while I was playing The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap with mGBA. In order to close the game on the ROG Ally, I need to set a command to pull up the on-screen keyboard, press Alt + Enter to get the game out of full screen, and tap the Close icon. With the Steam Deck, I just press Exit Game.
You can extend this process out to several emulators, most of which have a list of hotkeys to do basic things like create a save state (EmuDeck usually binds these commands to buttons, for the record).
Linux is a boost for emulating games, too, particularly on AMD chipsets. Both the Steam Deck and ROG Ally come with AMD processors, but the Linux OpenGL drivers (most emulators use OpenGL) are very stable.
AMD completely rewrote its OpenGL driver for Windows earlier this year, and it’s much better than it was before. However, I still noticed a hair of micro-stuttering in some games, forcing me to close and reopen the game on the ROG Ally.
The Steam Deck isn’t dead Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The ROG Ally has replaced my Steam Deck for most of the games I play. As I said in my review, I haven’t pulled the Steam Deck out since Asus’ handheld showed up. But I’m still going to keep my Steam Deck around as an emulation powerhouse.
There are dozens of excellent portable emulators, but the Steam Deck still takes the crown. It can easily support up to Wii U and PS3-era games, which most other emulators can’t manage. In addition, the $400 base price of the Steam Deck makes a lot more sense as an emulation machine — after all, ROMs usually aren’t huge, and you’ll likely be dumping them to a microSD card.
Emulation alone is still a great reason to pick up a Steam Deck. It sucks being an early adopter, but with the Steam Deck, there’s still plenty of reason to keep mine around.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming 4K gaming monitors are getting cheaper, but I still won’t buy one Gaming Features PC Gaming Computing AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution 3 is available after nearly a year of waiting. The company announced the feature around November of last year, in a swift response to Nvidia's, at the time, new Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 (DLSS 3). AMD's pitch was simple. The company was going to deliver the same performance-multiplying feature that generates frames instead of rendering them, and it would work with any graphics card.
Now it's here, and on paper, FSR 3 does exactly what AMD claimed. It's clear AMD has a lot more work to do to make FSR 3 work properly, though. And after almost a year of waiting for the feature to arrive, it's hard betting on promises for what FSR 3 could be in the future.
Where are the games? Computing Just as we started getting excited at the prospect of a Steam Deck 2, it now seems that gamers will have to wait a lot longer for the handheld. According to a recent statement, Valve is not looking to release the new Steam Deck for at least a couple more years. Will the console be able to stay competitive against its rivals? Pierre-Loup Griffais, the designer of Steam Deck and a rep for Valve, spoke to The Verge and revealed some information about the future of the gaming handheld. While the company has plans to upgrade, it's playing it safe and doesn't see that happening until late 2025 at the very least -- but it could be even longer than that.
Computing After championing AMD and considering using it in my next build, I still ended up buying one of Nvidia's best graphics cards -- although arguably, the GPU in question is also among Nvidia's worst. Sure, it's a powerful card, but in terms of value, it's probably one of the worst options I could have gone with.
I'm talking about the RTX 4080. There's no doubt it can blitz through any game you can throw at it, as you can read in our RTX 4080 review, but it's also $1,200 -- a full $500 more than last-gen's RTX 3080.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
