Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Ex-Valve writer's 'fan-fiction' reads an awful lot like the plot of Half-Life 3 By Jon Martindale Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Half-Life 3 might be the vaporware of many a gamer’s dreams , but it may be that Valve did at least consider what the plot of such a game might be at one point. Former Valve writer, Marc Laidlaw, made a lengthy post on his site called “Epistle 3,” which features many hallmarks and story elements familiar to Half-Life fans. In-fact, if you sub out some of his gender-swapped names and characters, it quite quickly becomes clear that it’s a story outline for a sequel to Half-Life 2: Episode 2.
Although he himself describes the note as “fan fiction,” on his Twitter account , fans quickly figured out what he was up to. “Gertie Freemont,” is the Gordon Freeman character in the “Epistle,” and “Elly Vaunt” is Eli Vance. The “Hyperborea” is the Borealis research vessel which Half-Life and Portal fans will be aware of. With just a few tweaks , Laidlaw’s post becomes the missing ending to Gordon Freeman’s story.
The tale picks up at the end of Episode 2 and follows Freeman and Alex Vance as they discover the truth behind the Borealis and the scale of the Combine’s empire. We even get to meet the G-Man one more time as this era of the Half-Life series comes to a close.
Half-Life 2 is getting Nvidia’s RTX treatment with DLSS 3 The best Half-Life Alyx mods Valve knows that a non-VR Half-Life: Alyx mod will be made by game’s fans Laidlaw previously worked on the original Half-Life , its sequel, and the following episodes, playing a key part in their stories. It makes sense that he would have had a hand in the story of a third main entry in the series, or at the very least the final Half-Life episode if it ever came to light. That hope seemed dashed when he left Valve in 2016 and his releasing of a suggested story doesn’t exactly encourage the idea that Valve has the game in the works.
However, the closing paragraph of the “Epistle,” gives a further hint as to why Laidlaw revealed the story in this form: “ And here we are. I spoke of my return to this shore. It has been a circuitous path to lands I once knew, and surprising to see how much the terrain has changed. Enough time has passed that few remember me, or what I was saying when last I spoke, or what precisely we hoped to accomplish. At this point, the resistance will have failed or succeeded, no thanks to me. Old friends have been silenced, or fallen by the wayside. I no longer know or recognize most members of the research team, though I believe the spirit of rebellion still persists. I expect you know better than I the appropriate course of action, and I leave you to it. Expect no further correspondence from me regarding these matters; this is my final epistle.
” As if speaking through “Freemont,” and reading between the lines, Laidlaw appears to be saying that times have changed and that if fans want a Half-Life 3 game, they’ll need to make it themselves.
Editors' Recommendations Half-Life gets a free update and Steam Deck verification for its birthday I’m already pining for PlayStation VR2 to get Half-Life: Alyx Valve programmer reveals why there’s no crowbar in Half-Life: Alyx Valve Index VR goes on sale again Monday in time for Half-Life: Alyx Half-Life: Alyx — Everything you need to know News Tech News Gaming Valve has revealed a March 23 release date for Half-Life: Alyx, the series' first foray into virtual reality, but the company's Index headset is still sold out practically everywhere.
Half-Life: Alyx, as its title suggests, will allow players to play as Alyx Vance, who was first seen in Half-Life 2. The game's events will take place between the first Half-Life and the sequel, when the alien race known as the Combine is already in control of the Earth, with the human population being rounded up.
Gaming Valve's new Index VR headset is getting a significant sales boost thanks to the upcoming game Half-Life: Alyx. Valve sold approximately 103,000 Index headsets, a jump of over 100% over the previous quarter, according to Nielsen's SuperData.
This made the Valve Index the best-selling PC VR headset of the quarter, outselling the substantially cheaper Oculus Rift S. At $1,000, the Valve Index is one of the most expensive headsets on the market, but it is on back-order after demand exceeded supply during the holidays.
Gaming The hype for Half-Life: Alyx appears to be real, as most packages of the Valve Index virtual reality headset were sold out a week after the announcement of the virtual reality exclusive.
The headset-only, controllers-only, and headset with controllers package for the Valve Index were sold out in the U.S. and Canadian stores of Steam, Road to VR reported. Instead of the order button, customers see a "Back in stock soon" message.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
