Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Cities: Skylines 2: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more By Jesse Lennox Close After the Sim City franchise faded away, gamers were left with few options when it came to city-building simulations. That changed when Cities: Skylines came out. The first game was a smash hit, filling the void left by the pioneer of the genre – and in many ways even surpassing it. However, that game came out in 2015, and even the numerous updates and DLC packs added to the game could only extend its life so long. Now, Cities: Skylines 2 has been officially revealed and fans have already built up their hopes as high as skyscrapers. Have the developers designed the perfect system for this sequel to thrive and grow? Let’s take a bird’s-eye view and see what groundwork has been laid for Cities: Skylines 2.
Release date Platforms Trailers Gameplay Preorder Release date Image used with permission by copyright holder Cities: Skylines 2 will be fully constructed and ready to play on October 24, 2023 for PC, however, the console versions of the game have been delayed to sometime in spring 2024.
Platforms Image used with permission by copyright holder Cities: Skylines 2 will be coming to PS5 , Xbox Series X/S , and PC.
 Sorry last-gen folks. In addition, it was also announced that Cities: Skylines 2 will be a day-one addition to Game Pass.
Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more The best development nodes to unlock in Cities Skylines 2 Cities: Skylines II beginner’s guide: tips and tricks to get started Trailers The announcement trailer for Cities: Skylines 2 was released to celebrate the original game’s eighth anniversary. The cinematic trailer shows a rapidly developing city, starting from underground wiring, up to the streets and buildings. The world evolves as new structures are built, but also weather and seasons change. By the conclusion, the city is a fully modern city and bustling city.
While there isn’t any explicit story in Cities: Skylines 2 , being more of a simulation game, the stories that come about tend to be more systemic and unique to each player as different events occur in their own distinct cities.
A quick preorder trailer was shown off at the Xbox Games showcase with only in-game footage. The main focus of this trailer is to show just how much power you as the player have in shaping and designing the world.
While not trailers exactly, the developers have been releasing a series of videos detailing individual features new and old to the game and breaking down how they will work in the sequel. These are being released on a weekly schedule with the final entry set to release on September 11. So far you can check out the ones focusing on: Road Tools Traffic AI Public and Cargo transportation Zones and signature buildings City Services Electricity and Water While not out yet, they have revealed seven more that will showcase: Maps and themes Climate and seasons Economy and production Citizen Simulation and Lifepath Game progression Sound and Music Cinematic camera and photo mode It would be far too dense to go through all the details for each of these features here, so you can check out any (or all) that interest you to learn more about them by visiting the official site.
Gameplay Paradox Interactive Even though the announcement trailer showed no real gameplay, there are plenty of hints we can pick up on as to how the game will work. Naturally, Cities: Skylines 2 will be a city builder at its core. You will most likely begin with an empty space of land that you will terraform and develop into your ideal city, managing roads, buildings, and infrastructure. According to the Steam page , “Here your city will evolve and react to your decisions. A dynamic and ever-changing world that is both challenging and rewarding. Use your creativity and strategic planning skills to grow your city into a thriving metropolis that will attract businesses, residents, and tourists alike. From residential neighborhoods to bustling downtowns, the possibilities are endless. Navigate through the complexities of running a city and keep up with the needs and demands of your citizens” which is exactly what fans of the first game are after.
Another hint picked up on thanks to the game’s achievements list is that Cities: Skylines 2 will allow you to build in areas of 150 tiles. For context, the first game had a maximum of nine tiles, meaning this sequel (assuming tiles are remaining the same size) will be orders of magnitude larger. Other achievements reveal there can be rat infestations, hailstorms, and the ability to somehow track an individual citizen’s life from childhood into old age.
Terraforming the land and fully plotting out roads, bridges, and even public transportation will be up to you to design.
Preorder Paradox Interactive Cities: Skylines 2 has preorders available on all platforms for either the Standard Edition or Ultimate Edition. Here are the blueprints of what each one has to offer: Standard Edition ($50) The base game Landmark Buildings preorder bonus Ultimate Edition ($90) Everything from the Standard Edition San Fransisco Set Content Creator Packs (Q1 2024) Bridges and Ports Expansion (Q2 2024) Beach Properties Asset Pack (Q4 2023) Radio Stations (Q4 2023, Q1/Q2 2024) Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more GTA 6: release date speculation, trailer, news, rumors, and more Marathon: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more RoboCop: Rogue City: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Cities: Skylines 2 will be the best PC city-building simulator … eventually Tech News Gaming The Dishonored series has always been a critical darling and it has cultivated a small, but passionate fanbase. The original game got some DLC, a sequel in Dishonored 2, and one last entry called Death of the Outsider in 2017, but since then the franchise has remained dormant. The studio's latest game, Deathloop, shares some DNA with Dishonored, but is certainly its own beast. However, since the success of that new IP far exceeded anything Dishonored had achieved, many fans felt we'd never return to Dunwall to see the conclusion of the story. Thanks to the recent leak of some court documents related to the Activision purchase by Xbox, which owns Dishonored publisher Bethesda, new hope has appeared for the existence of Dishonored 3.
Release window According to the leaked documents, which we should still take with skepticism until an official public statement is made, Dishonored 3 is currently planned for a "FY24E" release. FY24E is shorthand for Fiscal Year 2024, which runs between April 2024 and March 2025. Again, things are likely to change, if they haven't already, but this is at least a good starting point to predict the earliest we might see it.
Platforms Again, this is just speculation until the game is officially confirmed, but considering that Xbox owns publisher Bethesda, Dishonored 3 is almost certainly going to be an Xbox console exclusive with a PC port. It should also be available as a day one Game Pass title, as all Xbox first party titles are.
Trailers As mentioned, Dishonored 3 isn't even meant to be known about publicly yet, so no marketing exists for the game. All we have is the name.
Gameplay Gaming We all knew Final Fantasy 7 Remake was just the beginning, but had no idea how long we would have to wait for the next part, or even how many parts this incredibly ambitious project would end up spanning. Since fans have been begging Square Enix to remake what is quite possibly the most popular and most important JRPG of all time for years, there was obviously a lot of pressure on the studio to get it right. While there was plenty of skepticism regarding the first part changing so much about the core formula, once we had it in our hands, it became almost universally praised.
After Remake, there was next to no news on when Cloud and his ragtag team's adventure would continue. That is, not until the 25th anniversary of the original PlayStation 1 game, when Square Enix dropped a ton of info on us all at once. The biggest news was obviously the official reveal of Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth, the second part in what we now know to be a trilogy of titles. Since then, we've collected all the info drops as they've occurred. Here's everything we know about Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth.
Gaming Spider-Man is one of the most recognizable superheroes in the world. His popularity in media is hard to overstate, as he is the focus of ongoing films, comics, multiple animated series, and, of course, video games. The web-slinger has been on home consoles ever since the Atari days, and each new generation has given us better and better games. The most recent game, Marvel's Spider-Man, which paired the comic book hero with the perfect developer (Insomniac Games) to handle this acrobatic, sarcastic neighborhood hero, was a smash-hit in every respect. Critics praised it, fans loved it, and it sold like crazy. Plus, it probably was a major contributing factor in Sony's outright purchase of the studio. Naturally, we all knew a sequel had to be coming.
When the PlayStation 5 launched, we got a standalone expansion of sorts in Spider-Man: Miles Morales, which let us play as the new spider on the block in his own story. Now the focus has been set on the proper, full sequel, which looks to take everything from the original game and the expansion and combine it all into a truly amazing new Spider-Man (Spider-Men?) title. We've only had a handful of looks at the game, but we've used our spider senses to untangle all the information there is about Marvel's Spider-Man 2.
Release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
