Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides RoboCop: Rogue City: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more By Jesse Lennox Close “Dead or alive, you’re coming with me!” The classic RoboCop movies, particularly the original, were a groundbreaking take on crime and police in a near-future version of Detroit. While the reality surrounding those things has moved in quite a different direction than the film predicted, it’s still a great concept and an awesome piece of ’80s nostalgia. RoboCop himself, though, has never really been done justice when he’s been translated into games. We got a handful of early games on systems like the NES and SNES, but they were not quite able to really capture the feel of being a walking tank on the streets of Detroit.
Release date Platforms Trailers Gameplay Preorder First announced in 2021, RoboCop: Rogue City looks to finally put you behind the mask of RoboCop. However, being such a beloved film, there’s a reasonable amount of hesitancy surroundings this adaptation. Not to worry, though, because we’ve done our patrols and staked out all the important locations to bring you everything you need to know about RoboCop: Rogue City.
 All you need to do is read on. You have 20 seconds to comply.
Release date Image used with permission by copyright holder RoboCop: Rogue City will report for duty on November 2, 2023.
Platforms Nacon This sci-fi blast from the past will be available on all the current systems, including PlayStation 5 , Xbox Series X /S, and PC.
Trailers RoboCop: Rogue City debuted with a trailer during NACON Connect in 2021. This was a very brief announcement, mainly meant to reveal the project and build hype.
The trailer starts with a voice-over of a report on Old Detroit’s increasing crime rates as the city rises up from smoke. The reporter asks who could possibly intimidate the rampaging criminals and restore peace, leading to a shot of the game’s title and iconic image of RoboCop drawing his side-arm from his leg holster.
About a year later, at NACOn Connect 2022, RoboCop: Rogue City showed up once more, this time with actual gameplay to examine.
The trailer opens nearly identically to the last, with a broadcast detailing the increasing crime wave overtaking the city, which we see via crime scenes. This time, though, the broadcast is interrupted by a criminal on live TV.
We cut to RoboCop arriving on a scene and are thrown into first-person. We hear the nostalgic sounds of his robotic legs revving as he walks with slow, deliberate steps. He approaches the news station that has been overrun by punk gangsters, and we also cut to him raiding some kind of factory or plant, as well as general slums and alleys of Detroit. We also see a major encounter with a robot that looks very much like ED-209 from the films.
One of the few lines comes from a man, presumably the owner of a bank, asking where all the money is. He is later being interviewed, where he says he would “trust this guy with my kids … I mean, if I had any,” and then claims whatever occurred was just a glitch. It’s unclear what he’s referring to, but it seems likely to be directed toward a similar situation to the movies where they attempt to make fully robotic police in the form of ED-209 that don’t quite work out.
The trailer ends on RoboCop, mask off, approaching the screen and delivering his most famous line: “Dead or alive, you are coming with me.” What makes this delivery so impactful, aside from just the words, is the fact that it is Peter Weller reprising his role to voice Murphy/RoboCop.
There’s no indication in any way, aside from the ED-209-looking bot, as to where in the timeline this game will take place or if it is a complete reboot.
Presented at the Xbox Partner Preview, the There Will Be Trouble trailer gives a bit more texture to the world and gangs present in RoboCop: Rogue City.
 Aside from plenty of Robocop-versus-biker action, nothing much new is shown.
Gameplay Image used with permission by copyright holder The gameplay trailer was so heavily edited that it can be hard to get a feel for what RoboCop: Rogue City will actually play like. Still, combing through the footage reveals the basic idea.
Obviously, this will be a first-person shooter, but there will be some other elements thrown in as well. For one, there’s the instantly recognizable targeting mode where scan lines automatically target enemies, as we saw in the movie. While it’s unclear from the footage, which has no HUD, we suspect this will be something like a “super” or a limited move you can activate that acts like Soldier-76’s ultimate in Overwatch, where you will automatically target any enemies in your field of view for a specific duration of time.
You aren’t just limited to shooting, though. We see RoboCop grabbing and throwing enemies by hand, as well as kicking dumpsters. For now, the only weapon we see RoboCop use is his trusty Auto-9 sidearm, but hopefully, there will be more weapon variety in the full game.
Preorder You can preorder RoboCop: Rogue City in either the Standard or Alex Murphy Editions. Here’s what comes equipped in each version: Standard Edition – $60 RoboCop: Rogue City game Auto-9 Pitch Black skin Blue RoboCop skin Alex Murphy Edition – $70 Everything from the Standard Edition 48 hours early access OCP Shotgun sidearm Damaged RoboCop skin Digital artbook Auto-9 Pitch Black skin Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more The best skills to unlock in RoboCop: Rogue City Marathon: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Marvel’s Spider-Man 2: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Gaming The Elder Scrolls 6 was first revealed five years ago with a 36-second announcement trailer. Unfortunately, there hasn't been a lot of concrete news on the title since.
Now that Bethesda has launched Starfield — the developer's first brand-new IP in 25 years — with great success despite plenty of criticism on the game's advertised scale versus its gameplay, it goes without saying that the studio will be shifting to the next installment in the Elder Scrolls series. The new title will be building off the wild success of its predecessor Skyrim (which made the cut for Digital Trends' top 50 video games of all time) and MMO The Elder Scrolls Online.
Gaming Some fans never thought it would happen, but the seemingly impossible has been achieved. Super Mario RPG, a remake of the Squaresoft-developed Super Mario RPG: The Legend of the Seven Stars, has been officially announced. Many people will be more familiar with Mario's two main RPG series, the Paper Mario and Mario and Luigi games, but it was this collaboration that was the plumber's first foray into the RPG genre. Since Nintendo didn't own the IP, it wasn't able to continue the series itself, leading to those other series that took many elements from Super Mario RPG. This classic holds a special place in many gamers' hearts, as it served as the introduction to RPGs for many gamers and includes a cast of unique characters we haven't seen since. Get ready to hit those action-commands and ensure your Flower Points are full as we go through everything we know about Super Mario RPG.
Release date Super Mario RPG is set to arrive on November 11, 2023.
Platforms Gaming Are you ready to test your might? After a small leak and a couple of teases on Twitter, Mortal Kombat 1 has been confirmed to be the next entry in the best-selling fighting game series of all time. Developer NetherRealm typically alternates between franchises, so many people expected their next project to be a new Injustice since Mortal Kombat 11 was their last release in 2019. That is evidently not the plan, but this also isn't the Mortal Kombat 12 that would logically follow. The series already saw something of a reboot with Mortal Kombat 9, so what's going on with Mortal Kombat 1? Choose your fighter and memorize your fatality button inputs, because we're breaking down all the gory details of Mortal Kombat 1.
Release date Mortal Kombat 1 will be ready for kombat on September 19, 2023. However, there will also be an early access period for those who purchase either the Premium or Kollector's Edition of the game. This early access will begin on September 14 at 10 a.m. PT.
Platforms This fighter is ditching last-gen consoles and will launch on PS5, Xbox Series X/S, PC, and, most surprisingly, Nintendo Switch.
Trailers Mortal Kombat 1 - Official Announce Trailer | PS5 Games Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
