Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Guides Marvel’s Spider-Man 2: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more By Jesse Lennox Close Spider-Man is one of the most recognizable superheroes in the world. His popularity in media is hard to overstate, as he is the focus of ongoing films, comics, multiple animated series, and, of course, video games. The web-slinger has been on home consoles ever since the Atari days, and each new generation has given us better and better games. The most recent game, Marvel’s Spider-Man , which paired the comic book hero with the perfect developer (Insomniac Games) to handle this acrobatic, sarcastic neighborhood hero, was a smash-hit in every respect. Critics praised it, fans loved it, and it sold like crazy. Plus, it probably was a major contributing factor in Sony’s outright purchase of the studio. Naturally, we all knew a sequel had to be coming.
Release date Platforms Trailers Gameplay Multiplayer Preorder When the PlayStation 5 launched, we got a standalone expansion of sorts in Spider-Man: Miles Morales , which let us play as the new spider on the block in his own story. Now the focus has been set on the proper, full sequel, which looks to take everything from the original game and the expansion and combine it all into a truly amazing new Spider-Man (Spider-Men?) title. We’ve only had a handful of looks at the game, but we’ve used our spider senses to untangle all the information there is about Marvel’s Spider-Man 2.
Release date Image used with permission by copyright holder Spider-Man 2 will arrive on PS5 on October 20, 2023.
Platforms Image used with permission by copyright holder It was confirmed via a PlayStation blog post that Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 will be a PS5 exclusive. This is the first major Sony first-party game that won’t also be coming to PS4. Insomniac’s Ryan Schneider, head of franchise strategy and studio relations, wrote, “We’re so thrilled to continue the journey of both Peter Parker and Miles Morales in their most epic single-player adventure yet, coming exclusively to PlayStation 5 consoles in 2023.” So, sorry PS4 folks, hopefully you can get your hands on the new console before this game launches in the fall.
PC is another platform that Sony has begun experimenting with bringing its first-party games to, including Horizon Zero Dawn , Days Gone , and now, both Spider-Man games. However, these often take years to come over, if at all, so for now, just assume the PS5 is the only way to play Marvel’s Spider-Man 2.
Trailers We got a purely cinematic trailer during the PlayStation Showcase in September 2022, which was our first true confirmation of the game’s existence. The trailer is quick, but packed with details to dig into.
The trailer opens with narration by the person that Spidey fans strongly believe to be the villain, Kraven the Hunter. The Russian villain was introduced as trying to hunt and defeat Spider-Man to prove that he is the greater hunter. That lines up with many of the narration lines here that speak about finding a true foe worthy of his time. Still, with no visual to go with the voice, this is still speculative.
As the narration goes on, we see both Peter and Miles taking down thugs in the streets. Peter uses his gadgets, specifically the Iron Spider limbs, despite the suit not being the Iron Spider design, and Miles has his venom powers to shock enemies. They team up, webbing a thug together before the narration comes to a close as the camera pulls in on a dark alley. This is where we learn the narration may not be talking about Peter and Miles when the narrator says, “… one of you finally give me what I desire?” The real villain, Venom, replies in a gravelly voice, “Yes. We will.” We only see a bit of a street and an alley, but we are left wondering if this game will expand the map to go beyond the main New York setting.
Speaking of voices, while we never hear Peter or Miles, both Yuri Lowenthal and Jadji Jeter will return to play their respective Spider-Men, while Venom will be played by Candyman actor Tony Todd.
The PlayStation Showcase 2023 highlighted Kraven the Hunter’s motivation for coming to New York to find a worthy hunting target. Of course, that means Spider-Man.
Queens is a new location added that will be explorable, and it’s where we meet up with Spider-Man donning the symbiote suit. As expected, he is far more aggressive in both attacks and how he communicates with friend and foe. He and Miles chase down The Lizard, trying to capture him before Kraven’s men can since they believe him to be the only one who can save Harry. While Lizard escapes at the end of the trailer, Miles does manage to get a tracker on him.
For as much as we’ve seen about Spider-Man 2, we technically didn’t get a story trailer until SDCC 2023. This trailer focuses heavily on Harry, who was only mentioned and very briefly teased in the original game. He’s back now and appears to be cured from whatever illness he had. While many think Harry may eventually bind with Venom, we do know that it at least won’t be at the start of the game since the gameplay trailer mentioned Harry needing The Lizard (Dr. Connors) to help cure him. Speaking of Connors, he appears to be one of the first on the scene of the Symbiote’s crash site, meaning its origins may be faithful to the comics.
Despite this, there is a lot hinting at Harry becoming Venom later on. The most notable example in the trailer is this line to Peter, “I need you with me, Pete. We’re going to heal the world.” The latter sentence is repeated by Venom near the end of the trailer.
Gameplay Thanks to the gameplay trailer, we do know that both Peter and Miles will be playable in this sequel. At key moments, a button prompt will swap the player to the other character, although we also learned that you can instantly swap between the two whenever you like while exploring the open world. What we saw first was a linear mission, but we now know that the new map is roughly twice as large as the original and includes Queens and Brooklyn.
We didn’t see much in terms of dynamic team-up moves like the cinematic trailer showed, but the two definitely team up to pull off scripted, set piece moves.
It also touched on the gadgets and venom powers being shown off, and it looks like Peter has the ability to wear one suit while using the ability of a different suit’s power. The gameplay trailer only showed him wearing the symbiote suit, so that is based only on the cinematic trailer for now. Miles, on the other hand, does retain his venom powers, plus now has access to gadgets, like Peter did in the original game.
The biggest change to gameplay is going to be related to the symbiote suit Spider-Man is wearing. This gives him a suite of new tendril powers we’ve seen — and likely plenty more. New enemies include Kraven’s hunters, as well as some robotic animals.
For traversal, both now have wingsuit-style gliding abilities and the normal web-swinging to make zipping across New York much more engaging and dynamic.
Side missions return, and can be viewed using special AR googles that highlight them on the screen. Some are character specific, while others can be completed with either webslinger. Instead of just offering XP and loot rewards like before, these are much more dynamic and will reveal more information on the game’s villains and unique encounters.
Once again, tons of unlockable suits will be available. This time, there will be 65 suits in total between Peter and Miles, however, a new Suit Styles system promises over 200 unique ways to customize them in design and color.
Multiplayer Sony Interactive Entertainment It is confirmed now that Spider-Man 2 will not have any co-op or multiplayer, and will instead let you switch between characters at specified story moments. You may be able to switch at will outside of missions, however, that is pure speculation.
Preorder Image used with permission by copyright holder Preorders for all versions of Spider-Man 2 are available now! Here are all the details you need to know about each edition, including the new limited-edition PS5.
Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Marathon: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more What is the code to the Lizard’s lab in Spider-Man 2? Spider-Man 2 Just Let Go trophy guide: Where to find the science trophy Where to find Aunt May’s grave in Spider-Man 2 Comic Book Movies Marvel Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming In the decades that the character of Spider-Man has existed, through comics, TV shows, games, and movies, he's gone through quite a few suits. Spider-Man 2 keeps the tradition alive by not only giving him a new suit to try out, but dozens and dozens of older ones to let you play as your favorite version of the webslinger. Oh, and did we mention Miles has his own extensive set of suits as well? Just like the first game, you won't be handed the keys to the wardrobe for free. Each suit not only needs to be unlocked but also crafted using City and Hero Tokens, as well as Tech parts to get access to the additional styles most suits have. If you're itching to dress up as the Spider-Man of your dreams as soon as you can, here is every suit in Spider-Man 2 and how you unlock them.
Note: Some suits are unlocked via story progress and could be considered spoilers. You have been warned.
All suits in Spider-Man 2 Gaming The character of Spider-Man is only half of what makes him so interesting. Peter Parker, the man behind the mask, is just as vital to the story as his alter ego in Spider-Man 2. Just as he is in the comics and the first game, Peter is a scientist by trade, and Miles Morales is following in his footsteps in many ways, which is the perfect excuse to introduce some new science-focused puzzles into the game. One new puzzle has you examining different scenes to try and work out what exactly happened so you can determine the materials that were left behind. This puzzle is thrown at the player rather quickly and without much explanation, so we're here to brush up your molecular knowledge so you can solve these with ease.
How to solve molecular identification puzzles When you first start off ,you will be shown a 3D model of some molecule with green, red, and sometimes yellow nodes. Your goal is to remove all the red nodes without destroying any of the green. Yellow can be left or destroyed.
Gaming The opening sequence of Spider-Man 2 is a massive, technical showpiece of an encounter with the iconic villain Sandman, aka Flint Marko. Despite Peter and Miles thwarting the villain's rampage in the opening hours, his impact on the map -- and the game at large -- is far from over. Even after being sent away to prison on The Raft, Sandman has left behind mysterious crystals that are causing trouble all across the city. These become one of the many side activities you can participate in between main missions for some extra rewards like City Tokens. While they are all optional, completing each of these Marko's Memories activities does uncover a narrative about the troubled man and someone close to him that is well worth exploring. Besides, you will need to clean them all up if you want to fully complete the game anyway, so let's detail where you can find each of Marko's Memories in Spider-Man 2.
Where to find Marko's Memories There are 14 crystals scattered across the various boroughs of Spider-Man 2's New York, but just like with other collectibles like Prowler Stashes, you will have to wait for some to unlock as you make story progress. Additionally, the 14th and final memory won't be available until you've gotten all the others, and it leads to the quest's final objective. These will show up as an orange crystal on your map, but you can also spot them from all the sand they create around the area. When you approach one, you will need to fight a few waves of sand enemies before you can grab the crystal, crack it open, and hear the memory inside. Here's which borough you should be looking for them in, and how many there are in each.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
