Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides All stash locations in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them By Jesse Lennox Close FBI agent Saga Anderson and her partner, Alex Casey, are called into Bright Falls to investigate a murder committed by a strange group calling themselves the Cult of the Trees. These dangerous cultists are your main enemy in Alan Wake 2 , and they put up quite a fight despite mostly using basic tools as weapons. They seem mindless and primitive, but the fact that they have a series of Cultist Stashes hidden all around the world suggests otherwise. These treasure troves are very well hidden, and they’re protected with a small puzzle to try and prevent those who may stumble upon one from grabbing all the goodies inside. You’ll find yourself short on supplies essentially all the time in Alan Wake 2 , so scooping up some extra ammo and batteries is always welcome. Here is where you can find all the Cultist Stashes in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them.
All Cultist Stash locations There are a total of 21 Cultist Stashes to find and unlock in Alan Wake 2.
Each zone has its own set to find, and they all have different puzzles you need to solve to open them. None are missable, but some can’t be obtained until you make story progress or get specific tools.
Bright Falls Cult Stashes Remedy Entertainment The first Cult Stash you can find comes as soon as you reach the town of Bright Falls for the first time. Instead of going straight to your destination down the block, turn around and head toward the dead end. Behind the truck will be a big locked box. To open this one, all you need to do is play a little game of Simon Says.
The keypad will flash three buttons in a sequence that you simply need to repeat to open the box and grab the loot.
Way up out of town to the northwest of Bunker Woods (across the bridge and past the save room) is a little area where the road loops. Another stash is on the north end in the middle of the circle. Follow the sequence to open it.
Back by the safe room, go south down the road until it curves, and look for a wrecked truck on the north side. The stash is in the back. The combination is 177.
The next stash needs the Bunker Woods Stash key. To get it, go behind the Valhalla Nursing Home and follow the main road south, and then look for a bunch of wooden signs with arrows on them. They will lead you to the key. Head slightly northwest and find the rock with a big yellow arrow on it indicating the stash is behind it.
Keep heading down this same main road, but stop before the road splits and head to the north side off the road. You will see arrows pointing to numbers in the environment to give you tohe code, and the box itself will be next to one of the marked trees. Play the little memory game to open it.
Take a stop at the Ranger Station and scoop up the Ranger Station Stash key on the outside near the brick chimney. Take this to the stash itself, which is up on the hill to the east of the station and across the main road.
Back in Bright Falls proper, open the locked fence behind the police station using the bolt cutters. You need to get the code by finding the symbols on the radar dish, by the benches, and in the gazebo to open it.
Go inside the Sheriff Station and downstairs to the Evidence Room. The stash is in the back corner and can be opened with the code 146.
Cauldron Lake Cult Stashes Remedy Entertainment From the murder site, go south to find a trailer with a little picnic area outside. Next to the picnic table and some wooden pallets is the first stash next to one of the cultist symbols. The note will give you a clue as to which symbols you need to put into the lock, which are: Two triangles overlapping at their points facing diagonally left, two triangles pointing up and down, and two triangles pointing away from each other horizontally.
When you are put on Cauldron Lake Shore during the story, go to the absolute far south end to spot this stash near some washed-up logs. This one asks you to do the same Simon Says game as the one in Bright Falls.
After the flood is drained and you can explore the river area of Cauldron Lake, you will find this box up on a small ridge shown above. The paper on the box reads “Rock, Rock, Tree” and gives a clue about being “bright.” Hidden on a nearby pair of rocks and a tree are two numbers — one number and a second that either adds or subtracts from it. You need to do some simple math and then input the numbers in the right order, which is 6,5,8.
From the Witch Sign, go west and keep your light on to see some yellow arrows pointing you toward the Streamside Stash Key on a rock. Pick it up and then go to the campsite to the north on your map and use the key to open it.
At the north end of the Rental Cabins area, you will see some numbered trees. Look behind the one labeled with a 2 to find the Lake Cabins Stash key and take it inside Cabin 1 to unlock the stash itself.
Coffee World Cult Stahes Remedy Entertainment Go north from the Downtown section of Coffee World to the little loop just above the Kari’s Garage logo on your map. This is the next memory game-type stash, so repeat the pattern to unlock it.
Just a bit to the northeast from the last stash, find the shack with a save spot in it. Just outside on the north end is the stash. The combination to the lock is 527.
Right next to the metal barricade outside the Slow Roaster ride in the park proper, you’ll see a crate right out in the open. The code for this one is 147.
You first need to make a stop by the Mr. Drippy statue in the middle of the park. Behind it is the Coffee World Stash Key that you need to grab and bring to the Houtari Well. The stash you can unlock with it is right up against the back cliff.
We need the Trailer Park Stash Key for the next box, but can only get to it after the flooding has receded. Once you get there, the key and the stash are almost on top of each other. The box is in a small shack along a wooden fence, but if you go around behind i,t you can grab the key from the nearby light pole. It is high up, so you need to walk up a wooden board to reach it.
Head over to the lighthouse on the southern part of the map and go to the north side of it. Tucked down by a cliff is the stash that has another glowing paint puzzle where you need to use the numbers to solve the code.
On the little dock sticking out to the east just south of the Downtown Watery section, you’ll fins a stash right behind some blue crates. The combination is 496.
Once you can unlock the gate behind the Kalevala Knights Workshop, the stash is sitting just behind the building. The combination is 542.
Editors' Recommendations Alan Wake 2 studio is rebooting its upcoming multiplayer project All Lunchbox locations in Alan Wake 2 All Word of Power locations in Alan Wake 2 All nursery rhyme solutions in Alan Wake 2 Where to find all inventory upgrades in Alan Wake 2 Gaming Everyone knows the iconic Spider-Man suit. The red-and-blue spandex uniform has been iterated on and altered hundreds of times over the course of decades, leading to some similar and some very different designs. Spider-Man 2 introduces Venom and the symbiote suit to the mix as a plot point, but there are almost 70 total suits from various comics, shows, and movies to unlock and wear between Peter pParker and Miles Morales. Unlocking them is one thing, but changing between them, and their new styles, is another. With this guide, you will be able to change your spider style as fast as our heroes when duty calls.
How to change suits Once you've snagged your first additional suit and used some Tokens to unlock it, changing between them is a breeze. Simply open your menu, go to the Suits tab, and highlight the one you want to wear. If you want to switch between Peter and Miles, simply hit L2 or R2 to cycle between the Spider-Men since each has their own unique set of suit options. Press X on the suit you want to wear and -- bam! -- your Spider-Man is now decked out in a new style. However, that's not all. Many suits have additional styles you can unlock by spending some Tech Parts. These give you three additional color options for that specific suit to further customize your look.
Gaming Super Mario Bros. Wonder is taking the series back to its 2D roots with a new and exciting art style and a ton of new mechanics. Alongside new power-ups and badges, this title has perhaps the largest amount of collectibles and hidden secrets of any game in the series. Between all the Wonder Seeds, Wonder Flowers, Flower Coins, and more, there's no shortage of things to do as you run, jump, and flip your way through all the various worlds. Among all the playable characters to choose from, one non-playable character makes his triumphant return. Captain Toad has managed to make his way to the Flower Kingdom, but this intrepid explorer is not so easy to find. Each time you interact with him, he will reward you with some Flower Coins and a hint at an upcoming world, so let's hunt down all his locations in Super Mario Wonder.
All Captain Toad locations Captain Toad appears in five unique spots on the Super Mario Bros. Wonder world map. Talking to him at each spot will give you a little bit more of his story, plus the aforementioned rewards.
First Captain Toad location Gaming In the decades that the character of Spider-Man has existed, through comics, TV shows, games, and movies, he's gone through quite a few suits. Spider-Man 2 keeps the tradition alive by not only giving him a new suit to try out, but dozens and dozens of older ones to let you play as your favorite version of the webslinger. Oh, and did we mention Miles has his own extensive set of suits as well? Just like the first game, you won't be handed the keys to the wardrobe for free. Each suit not only needs to be unlocked but also crafted using City and Hero Tokens, as well as Tech parts to get access to the additional styles most suits have. If you're itching to dress up as the Spider-Man of your dreams as soon as you can, here is every suit in Spider-Man 2 and how you unlock them.
Note: Some suits are unlocked via story progress and could be considered spoilers. You have been warned.
All suits in Spider-Man 2 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
