Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to Win Fortnite Best Places to Land in Fortnite Fortnite Split-Screen Best Fortnite Skins Fortnite Augments Fortnite Guardian Shield How to Claim Fortnite Capture Points Fortnite Nitro Drifter Home Gaming Guides The best Fortnite skins and how to get them By Felicia Miranda , Cody Perez and Joseph Yaden Close Few online video games offer the same level of customization as Fortnite does. With its ever-changing map and a giant assortment of items to collect, part of what makes Fortnite so fun is being able to create your own unique sense of style. The coolest battle royale outfits are some of the rarest and exclusive items in the game, usually requiring you to get some V-bucks or invest in a battle pass to get them.
Ariana Grande Batman Black Panther Bugha Captain America Crackshot Daredevil Daryl Dixon Deadpool Doctor Slone Doctor Strange Galaxy Ghost Rider The Ice King The Joker Kratos Kymera Lara Croft LeBron James Lynx Mandalorian Master Chief Meowscles Midas Naruto Predator The Reaper Rebirth Raven Rey Rick Sanchez Spider-Man T-800 Travis Scott Venom Wolverine Xenomorph As Fortnite has grown in popularity, more licensed characters have been implemented, from franchises like Star Wars to Marvel and other famous properties. Some cosmetic skins, such as Wolverine or Kratos, were only available for a limited time as part of an event or holiday. As such, some of the best skins aren’t even available anymore, unfortunately. But sometimes skins reappear, so it’s always good to check out the Item Shop when you jump into the game.
With that in mind, here’s a list of the best Fortnite skins ever released from launch all the way into chapter 3, season 2. We’ll also cover how to unlock them and estimate when they might be available to buy from the Item Shop again.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica The best Call of Duty games, ranked How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 Recommended reading: All Fortnite chapter 3, season 2 quests How to level up fast in Fortnite The best places to land in Fortnite Ariana Grande Progameguides.com Kicking off the list is none other than Ariana Grande, a character skin that was first available in August 2021. This skin is based on the pop icon, similar to the Travis Scott outfit. It’s absolutely wild to see musicians make their way into Fortnite , and we’re hoping for more to be added in the future. Ariana was available to purchase from the Item Shop as recently as March 2022, so it’ll be a while before she reappears.
Batman Image used with permission by copyright holder Let’s kick things off with one of the most popular heroes of all time: None other than Batman. This skin was first available in 2019 during chapter 1, season 10, and was buyable through the Fortnite Item Shop. If you purchased the Batman Caped Crusader Pack Bundle, you got a Batwing glider, the Christopher Nolan Batman skin, a set of capes, and a fancy pickax to complete the set. It’s not available anymore, sadly, but it’s possible we’ll see it again sometime. Batman did make a reappearance in the Item Shop on July 10, 2020, so we’re definitely overdue for another chance to buy the skin.
Black Panther Image used with permission by copyright holder To honor the Marvel franchise, as well as the tragic passing of actor Chadwick Boseman, Fortnite featured the Black Panther skin earlier in chapter 2, season 5. The skin, along with a slew of extra goodies, were available through the Item Shop but have since been delisted — though the skin did make a brief appearance for a couple of days after originally being added as part of the Royalty and Warriors packs, so it’s possible we’ll get another chance to buy the Black Panther skin in Fortnite.
Bugha Image used with permission by copyright holder This skin is fascinating because it’s based on a real-life Fortnite player. Modeled after Kyle “Bugha” Giersdorf, this skin was available from the Item Shop for 1,500 V-bucks. Or, you were able to get the Bugha Bundle, which came with an emote and harvesting tool for 1,800 V-bucks. This is one that will likely reappear in the store if you miss it, as cosmetics in the Item Shop are known for coming back every now and again. It was last available in August 2021.
Captain America Image used with permission by copyright holder First making an appearance during Fortnite chapter 2, season 3, Captain America was buyable from the Item Shop for 2,000 V-bucks. This famous Marvel character has made frequent appearances in the Item Shop after being initially delisted — showing up as recently as December 29, 2021. Considering the popularity of this character, it’s highly likely Captain America will reappear in the Item Shop in a few months — perhaps later this summer.
Crackshot Image used with permission by copyright holder If you want to creep other players out, then this is the best Fortnite skin to do it with. Going toe to toe with a giant wily nutcracker is definitely fuel for nightmares, but once you get past his off-putting appearance, it’s actually kind of hilarious. This legendary skin was exclusive to the 2018 holiday event for around 2,000 V-bucks. It has since been removed from the Item Shop, though it sometimes pops up during seasonal events, and was recently available on January 5, 2022.
Daredevil Image used with permission by copyright holder Upon its initial release, it was possible to earn the Daredevil skin for free by placing it within a certain ranking during a tournament during chapter 2, season 4. After that, Daredevil was implemented into the Item Shop and could be purchased for 1,500 V-bucks. It has since been delisted, but like many Marvel characters, it has reappeared within the Item Shop as recently as December 29, 2021. It will likely show up once again, perhaps later this summer.
Daryl Dixon Image used with permission by copyright holder The Walking Dead ‘s Daryl Dixon skin was first added to the Fortnite Item Shop in December. You could purchase it for 1,800 V-bucks, as well as the Michonne skin, as part of the Survivors in Arms set. It’s no longer available to buy, but it did reappear on October 16, 2021, so it’s possible the skin will reappear again soon, likely to coincide with the upcoming spinoff show.
Deadpool Image used with permission by copyright holder As one of the most popular Fortnite skins, you probably have seen lots of players using the Deadpool outfit. It was available as part of the chapter 2, season 2 battle pass, and is no longer obtainable. At the time, you could earn this skin without having to buy it from the Item Shop, but since season 2 has concluded, there’s no telling if you’ll be able to get your hands on the Deadpool outfit again. There have been other Deadpool-related items added to the Item Shop afterward, like the Cuddlepool and Ravenpool skins.
Doctor Slone Image used with permission by copyright holder Doctor Slone is, simply put, one of the best Fortnite characters ever created — not just due to her importance in the storyline, but also because she’s featured prominently as a Black woman leading the charge during chapter 2, season 7. To unlock her, you had to have purchased the chapter 2, season 7 battle pass, and then used stars to buy Doctor Slone. It was a bit of a long process, but if you were playing regularly throughout chapter 2, season 7, you should have earned enough currency to unlock her. Currently, this character skin is unobtainable, sadly.
Doctor Strange Progameguides.com To coincide with his new movie, Doctor Strange is available as part of the Fortnite chapter 3, season 2 battle pass. This will be one of the last rewards you unlock from the battle pass since it requires so many stars, but if you play frequently throughout the season, you’ll unlock the skin eventually. Since this one is tied to the battle pass, it’s unlikely you’ll be able to get your hands on it again after the season ends.
Galaxy Image used with permission by copyright holder The Galaxy skin is one of the most sought-after and controversial skins ever and for a good reason. As we covered in our guide on how to unlock it , this cosmetic was only available to players who purchased a Samsung Galaxy S6 phone or S4 tablet. This didn’t stop players from showing up to stores that had demo phones and tablets that they would use to nab this cool galactic outfit. After all, this skin is truly out of this world.
Ghost Rider Image used with permission by copyright holder Similar to Daredevil, you could have earned the Ghost Rider skin by placing within a certain ranking during a Fortnite tournament in 2020, granting you access to the skin for free. Following the conclusion of the tournament, Ghost Rider has been added to the Item Shop multiple times, where you could buy the skin for 1,5000 V-bucks. In fact, the skin was available as recently as December 29, 2021, and will likely reappear later this summer.
The Ice King Image used with permission by copyright holder In the midst of the wintery chapter 1, season 7, the most elusive reward was the Ice King skin, only available for players who reach the coveted tier 100 in that season’s battle pass. The Ice King skin is cool, terrifying, and epic all at the same time. It’s one of the best skins around if you want to strike fear and envy into the hearts of your foes on the battlefield.
The Joker Image used with permission by copyright holder Available through the Last Laugh set, The Joker is, of course, one of the most famous supervillains of all time. This bundle was buyable for $30 and also included Poison Ivy and Midas Rex and has reappeared in the Item Shop after its initial release. This set is different from many others in that you must buy it with real money, but the nice thing is that it comes with 1,000 V-bucks. It was available as recently as March 9, 2021, and will likely reappear in the Item Shop.
Kratos Image used with permission by copyright holder This is one of the most interesting skins because it’s based on a character who is exclusive to PlayStation. Despite this, you could have acquired the Kratos skin across any version of Fortnite , regardless of platform (yes, even Xbox). The main character of the beloved God of War series could be purchased from the Item Shop for 1,500 V-bucks when it was available and has been listed multiple times. It was originally available toward the end of 2020 but was buyable as recently as March 19, 2021.
Kymera Image used with permission by copyright holder The Kymera is unique because it’s the only skin that offers customization, with over 2,000 different combinations to choose from. You can add different eyes, horns, skin colors, and head shapes that are unlocked as you earn Alien Artifacts.
 To get your hands on this skin, you simply needed to have purchased the chapter 2, season 7 battle pass, which you might’ve already done if you’re reading this.
Lara Croft Image used with permission by copyright holder Lara Croft, the star of the acclaimed Tomb Raider series, was available during chapter 2, season 6 of Fortnite.
 With that season focusing on a Primal theme, it was fitting to see the adventurer heroine included. To unlock her, you needed to have purchased the battle pass and leveled it up to 15. Unfortunately, the character is not available for purchase anymore, and it’s unlikely she will be included in the game again.
LeBron James Image used with permission by copyright holder NBA player and star of Space Jam: A New Legacy , LeBron James was available to purchase in Fortnite.
 There were a handful of styles and different pieces of gear you could get with LeBron, but the skin is no longer available, unfortunately. The skin’s last appearance was on July 28, 2021, and it’s unclear if it’ll be added back into the gam again.
Lynx Image used with permission by copyright holder Lynx is a bit like Catwoman mixed with the beloved Omega skin. It not only looks like a female version of the Omega skin in its black form-fitting outfit but also has several other colors to choose from. If you don’t like the sleek catsuit, Lynx can also look like a pop star. Unfortunately, it was only available as part of the chapter 1, season 7 battle pass, and is no longer obtainable.
Mandalorian Image used with permission by copyright holder Kicking off chapter 2, season 5 of Fortnite , all players gained access to Din Djarin from The Mandalorian.
 This skin was available right from the start of the season with no stipulations. There was also a secondary Beskar Armor set that could be unlocked by completing various challenges during season 5’s duration. Currently, there’s no way to get your hands on this skin, but it’s possible it will be reintroduced at a later date.
Master Chief Image used with permission by copyright holder Master Chief is yet another character from a franchise that is exclusive to one platform. The star of Xbox’s Halo series made an appearance in Fortnite during The Game Awards 2020 and could be purchased for 1,500 V-bucks. Much like Kratos, Master Chief was available across all platforms, despite Halo being exclusive to Xbox. The character has since been buyable from the Item Shop on more than one occasion, as recently as May 9, 2022.
Meowscles Image used with permission by copyright holder This list wouldn’t be complete without everyone’s favorite calico cat spy agent, Meowscles. Also introduced in the chapter 1, season 12 battle pass at tier 60, this swole boy is a highly-customizable cat-man. By completing the weekly challenges, you can pledge your allegiance to Ghost or Shadow and have his fur color change in the process.
Midas Image used with permission by copyright holder Midas is the crowning jewel of chapter 1, season 12. Only unlocked at tier 100, this skin is a handsome leader of the spies who has that golden touch. The default skin is solid, with Midas having a concrete-like skin color with some gold elements. However, the Ghost and Shadow variants elevate the skin further, making his body entirely gold with a gray or black suit.
Naruto Progameguides.com As one of the most popular anime/manga series of all time, Naruto was featured in Fortnite as a buyable skin from the Item Shop. This character was available for 1,500 V-bucks when it launched in November 2021 and was featured as recently as March 2022. Because of this, it’ll likely be summertime before you’ll be able to buy this skin again, so keep your eyes peeled.
Predator Image used with permission by copyright holder As part of chapter 2, season 5, players had the ability to unlock the Predator skin in Fortnite for free! All you had to do was complete certain in-game challenges, which we covered extensively here.
 Unlike most skins on this list, you did not need to buy the Predator skin. In addition to the skin, you were able to unlock a few Predator-themed cosmetics, such as a weapon skin, emote, and spray — each available by completing certain challenges. The skin is no longer available and it’s unclear if it will make a return.
The Reaper Image used with permission by copyright holder We love Easter eggs in games , and the Reaper skin in Fortnite is definitely one of them. This tall man dressed in all black as if he’s some kind of undercover agent is a reference to Keanu Reeves’ character in John Wick.
 Unfortunately, this legendary skin is no longer available since it was an exclusive item for tier 100 on the chapter 1, season 3 battle pass. Though there was also an official John Wick skin that came out after, this one still holds a soft spot in our hearts for the countless memes.
Rebirth Raven Image used with permission by copyright holder Arguably the best skin of Fortnite during chapter 2, season 6 was Rebirth Raven. You might remember Raven from DC Comics’ Teen Titans as one of the leading stars. This one was another outfit tied to the battle pass and was unlocked at level 77. Sadly, this skin is no longer obtainable since it was tied to a previous season’s battle pass. Here’s hoping Epic allows players to acquire her once again at a later time.
Rey Image used with permission by copyright holder Rey, one of the main protagonists of the recent Star Wars films, was available to purchase in Fortnite ‘s Item Shop toward the end of 2019. The character was buyable for 1,500 V-bucks, alongside other Star Wars heroes/villains, but has unfortunately been delisted. The nice thing is that Rey and the others were re-added to the Item Shop after the first appearance, so there is hope we’ll see them again. The last time you could buy Rey was in May 2022 for Star Wars day.
Rick Sanchez Image used with permission by copyright holder Rick and Morty’s Rick Sanchez was available as a playable character in Fortnite as part of chapter 2, season 7. This was a notable inclusion because the art style is so vastly different from Fortnite’s.
 Rather than trying to change the character to suit the game’s style, Epic Games opted to keep Rick as he is in the show, thick outlines and all. To unlock Rick, you needed to simply purchase the battle pass for that season. Rick is no longer available, but it’s possible he’ll make a return.
Spider-Man Progameguides.com Unsurprisingly, Spider-Man was featured in Fortnite and was available as a battle pass reward during chapter 2, season 1. There was a different Spider-Man skin available around the same time, which was based on the No Way Home movie, but to acquire the comic book version shown above, you needed to have completed the battle pass during season 1. Because of this, you likely won’t be able to get it again, but at least you can expect to see the movie version reappear later this summer.
T-800 Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s pretty wild to see a deadly Terminator T-800 in such a colorful game, but here we are. The T-800 was first available during chapter 2, season 5, and could be bought from the Item Shop for 1,500 V-bucks. T-800 isn’t in the game anymore, but it’s possible the skin will come back at some point in the future. It was last buyable in March 2021, so we could see it again later this summer.
Travis Scott Image used with permission by copyright holder Initially available to buy from the Fortnite Item Shop in April 2020, rapper Travis Scott is one of the most sought-after skins in the game. While it was available, you could buy the skin for 1,500 V-bucks. Since the outfit was delisted from the Item Shop, it has not made a reappearance, so it’s unlikely players will be able to acquire it if they missed it the first time. You might recall the popular in-game Travis Scott concert that occurred last year, which attracted 27 million players.
Venom Image used with permission by copyright holder As one of the most beloved Marvel villains ever, Venom was added to the Fortnite Item Shop toward the end of 2020. At the time, you could buy Venom for 2,000 V-bucks, along with the villain’s emote and Back Bling. After its debut, Venom didn’t appear in the Item Shop until March of 2021, so this is a good sign for players who couldn’t get it the first time. The skin was recently available on December 29, 2021.
Wolverine Image used with permission by copyright holder Wolverine was obtainable through Fortnite’s chapter 2, season 4 battle pass but has since been discontinued. At the time, you could earn the character by leveling up the battle pass, and other Wolverine cosmetics were available by finishing certain challenges. Since this character was never available to buy in the Item Shop, it’s unlikely it will be added in the future. Even so, there’s a good chance you already acquired this skin when you completed season 4.
Xenomorph Image used with permission by copyright holder Finally, one of the coolest skins ever to be implemented into Fortnite is the Xenomorph from the Aliens series. Just look at this thing. It first made an appearance in the Item Shop in February 2021 and was buyable for 1,600 V-bucks. Since it reappeared in December 2021, we’ll likely see it once again later this summer.
Editors' Recommendations Best Perk-a-Colas in Modern Warfare 3 zombies, ranked How to play split-screen in Fortnite The best field upgrades for Modern Warfare 3 Zombies How to get two primary weapons in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games Fortnite How-To Guides PC Gaming Gaming Every year when the new Call of Duty title drops, the playing field is once again reset as everyone needs to start grinding back up the ranks. Fully embracing the RPG elements, Modern Warfare 3 once again allows you to earn XP as you play match after match to rank up your character, with each rank not only bringing you closer to hitting prestige but also unlocking new options for your chosen operator. Your player rank is unique from your weapon levels and can take a lot longer to grind if you don't know the most efficient methods. If you want to fast-track your career through the ranks, here are the fastest ways to earn XP in Modern Warfare 3.
How to earn XP fast in Modern Warfare 3 There's basically no way you can play Modern Warfare 3 without earning XP, but some modes and methods can earn you double (or more) what you could if you were just playing without a plan.
Play the objective We all love playing team deathmatch or any other mode where all you need to worry about is being the one to shoot first. However, if you want to earn that sweet XP fast, you need to choose one of the objective modes like Domination, Hardpoint, Ground War, or even Kill Confirmed. Not only do you get XP for killing enemies, but the amount you get on top of that for playing the objective can make up the bulk of your XP gain. This is especially true if you're not at the top of your game and end up dying more than you kill since you have another method to contribute. Also, objective modes grant you an XP bonus just for finishing the match.
Always work towards daily and weapon challenges Gaming Murphy is far more than a man in RoboCop: Rogue City. His robotic and cybernetic enhancements have made him the perfect crime-fighting machine, or so we thought. As it turns out, there is a lot of room for upgrades in your new body and multiple ways to invest your points. The tree is broken down into eight different categories, and each one has three unique perks sprinkled in that give you new and powerful abilities. Or rather, some of them do. Depending on how you want to dispense justice, there are plenty of skills that will be a complete waste of time to get. Before you go on your quest to serve the public trust, protect the innocent, and uphold the law, make sure you know the best skills to unlock in RoboCop: Rogue City.
Best skills to unlock The skill tree in RoboCop: Rogue City is broken into the following eight categories: Combat, Armor, Vitality, Engineering, Focus, Scanning, Deduction, and Psychology. There are 10 slots in each, with perks unlocking at the second, sixth, and final slots. Note that once a skill point is invested, you cannot change your mind later.
Shield You may be in a shiny metallic body, but you aren't invincible. Especially in the early game, you will find yourself a bit less tanky than you expect. Thankfully all you need to do is pump two points into the Armor tree to get the Shield ability. Once active, you reduce all incoming damage by 80%. If you're digging that feeling, you can even go to the next perk which is High Damage Reduction. This is a passive skill that automatically cuts explosive and high-caliber weapon damage by 25%. There's no need to max out this tree since Deflect isn't all that useful in the long run.
Fuse Boxes Recovery Taking less damage is great, but what about when you need to heal? The first perk in Vitality makes Fuse Boxes healing items that restore 50% of your health, plus increases how many OCP Recovery Charges you can store up to 4. Depending on how difficult you find the game, you can continue down to basically get a better version of this skill that makes Fuse Boxes restore all your health and cap your Recovery Charges at 5, or invest all the way and unlock Auto Regeneration to passively restore HP up to 75%.
Dash You're a walking tank, but that doesn't mean you have to move like one. Dash unlocks on the second node of the Engineering tree and gives you, well, a dash! You can use it to slam into enemies, get into or out of cover, or just maneuver around however you need. Movement in RoboCop: Rogue City is a bit clunky, so this makes combat far more responsive.
Enhanced Learning This will be a skill you need to spend a lot of time investing in the Deduction tree to get but should be done as early as possible if you're going to go for it. Enhanced Learning increases all XP gain by 30%, thus making all future skills easier to get. Plus you will get Enhanced Scanning and Enhanced Map on the way, which make doing side missions and gathering items around the map way easier.
Gaming Building an entire city from scratch is a long process, even in a game like Cities Skylines 2. You need to make slow, gradual improvements and expansions to make sure you don't spread yourself too thin and go into debt. So long as you can make it over the initial hurdle, you will start building a steady stream of XP and completing Milestones. The one mechanic that can give your city a substantial boost is the different development nodes you unlock using Development Points. These nodes offer unique upgrades to specific aspects of your city and are further broken down into somewhat linear skill trees. All told, there is an overwhelming number of nodes to choose from. If the stress of simply keeping up with building a functional and happy society is already pushing you to the limit, we'll help smooth over the process by telling you the best development nodes you need to unlock in Cities Skylines 2.
Best development nodes Development nodes are rewarded in stacks by reaching each of the 20 Milestone levels in Cities Skylines 2. Once you have some points, you can distribute them as you see fit among the 11 categories in the Progression menu.
Roads Roads are like the skeleton of your city; without a strong road structure, the entire thing will fall apart. It almost feels cruel that the advanced roads services node isn't a default option, but that just means you need to get it ASAP. This node allows you to manage traffic with basic functions like traffic lights, road signs, and crosswalks. You do need to place all of these down yourself, and while you can get by for a little while in the early game before your population gets too big, traffic will become a nightmare and productivity will slow to a crawl if you ignore it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
