Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to Win Fortnite Best Places to Land in Fortnite Fortnite Split-Screen Best Fortnite Skins Fortnite Augments Fortnite Guardian Shield How to Claim Fortnite Capture Points Fortnite Nitro Drifter Home Gaming Guides The best places to land in Fortnite right now By Joseph Yaden Close Survival is key in Fortnite , and it all starts by picking the best starting location. Even if you’re an expert player, your likelihood of coming out on top is greatly diminished if you start off on the wrong foot — whether it be at a barren location with no loot or a hot drop that could lead to a swift death. As part of Fortnite Chapter 4, Season 3, there’s no shortage of fantastic landing spots, but which one you choose comes down to your skill and preference, and you’re going to want to pick the right one if you want to win Fortnite.
 So join us as we show you the best Fortnite landing spots for veterans, beginners, and everyone in-between.
The best places to land in Fortnite Before jumping into the list, it’s important to be aware of what makes a good landing spot. Sure, any place with decent loot might serve you well, but there’s more to consider than that. Does a spot have a consistent chest/loot spawn? Are there guaranteed materials? Is it close to other places of interest (POI)s? Is it out of the way? Of course, loot is the most important aspect, but it does you no good to have a stacked loadout if you’re stuck in the storm. These recommended landing spots all have some degree of consistency and fantastic loot, and typically have some quirk that makes them effective depending on your playstyle.
For Season 3 specifically, the Fortnite island hasn’t completely changed, but there are some differences in the middle portion of the map. This area has been completely overhauled, adding several new POIs. With that in mind, some of the landing spots from Season 2 still apply during Season 3.
The best Mario games of all time, ranked The best PS5 exclusives The best skills to unlock in RoboCop: Rogue City Seaside Entry Surviving in Fortnite is no easy task, so if you’re a passive player, you might want to check out the Seaside Entry landing spot on the west side of the map. It’s out of the way, almost never contested, and has enough loot for you to get stocked up before rotating. Specifically, we recommend hitting all the shacks and buildings along the shore. There should be plenty of chests and loot all along the way. Once you’re geared up, you can then head to Shattered Slabs, where you’ll likely find enemies — or you can continue along the shore away from the action.
Slappy Shores While most of the main POIs are great in their own ways, Slappy Shores has it all. It’s got a ton of loot, a Slurp Truck on the bridge, and plenty of resources for gathering materials. The main reason this POI is so effective is that it has a little bit of everything, including a body of water so you can fish, along with access to a Reboot Van nearby. But beyond that, Slappy Shores is typically out of the way, meaning it’s less likely to be contested compared to other main POIs. That doesn’t mean you’ll have this location to yourself — but it’s a far cry from landing at Rumble Ruins or The Citadel, giving you a little taste of the action without throwing you to the wolves. This is a great spot for those looking to practice getting into gunfights in the early stages.
Meadow Mansion For players wanting to play it as safely as possible, while guaranteeing fantastic loot, look no further than Meadow Mansion. This house feels like its own little city, full of everything you’d need to get started, from lots of materials to guaranteed chest spawns, loot, and a Reboot Van just in case things go badly. Aside from that, this spot has access to vehicles in the garage, allowing you to rotate to a different location with ease. Frenzy Fields is a hot drop, found to the east, but if you stock up at Meadow Mansion first before visiting it, you’ll be in good shape. This area is a little bit out of the way, so you’ll want to pay attention so you don’t get caught in the storm.
Restful Retreat Another low-key drop point, Restful Retreat is a little island to the north of Knotty Nets that is almost never contested and is home to a handful of chests, a Slurp Truck, Slurp Barrels, and geysers (which are great for rotation). You’ll easily be able to loot up and get ready for the fight ahead after landing here. Just be sure to pay attention to the storm, as it’s easy to get distracted while you’re so far away from zone.
The Apparatus Sometimes, it’s easy to get caught in the storm, especially if you’re distracted by gathering loot or fighting enemies. If you’re someone who tends to lose track of the storm, we highly recommend landing at The Apparatus, which is a rock temple to the east of Rumble Ruins. The Apparatus is right in the middle of the map and contains numerous chests and supplies for you to collect. After you’re stocked up, it’s easy to move to the next zone from here since it’s right in the middle of the island.
Mayday Meadow Next is yet another central drop point, Mayday Meadow. This area is found just west of Shady Stilts and is usually a bit of a hotter drop than some other areas. You’ll find lots of chests and loot here, including Slurp Barrels, a vending machine, and plenty of building supplies. It’s a great drop spot for players who want a bit of action without being thrown against several other teams.
Kenjutsu Crossing Finally, we recommend landing at Kenjutsu Crossing, which is a hot drop, but if you know how to navigate the area, you have the potential to come out with a powerful loadout. Land on the top floor, head inside to grab a weapon from a chest, and then do your best to pick off anyone who lands outside. If you stand on the roof, you’ll have a clear line of sight. You can then slowly make your way down this multistoried building, doing your best to grab as much loot as possible as you descend. If you make it out alive, you’ll have valuable gear, and you can then make your way to the north to get to zone. Speaking of which, make sure you pay attention to the storm, as it’s easy to get caught out of bounds if you aren’t paying attention, especially since Kenjutsu is so far to the southeast.
Editors' Recommendations Best Perk-a-Colas in Modern Warfare 3 zombies, ranked The best field upgrades for Modern Warfare 3 Zombies How to rank up fast in Modern Warfare 3: best ways to farm XP The best PS5 games for 2023 The best Switch games for 2023 Fortnite PC Gaming Gaming Building an entire city from scratch is a long process, even in a game like Cities Skylines 2. You need to make slow, gradual improvements and expansions to make sure you don't spread yourself too thin and go into debt. So long as you can make it over the initial hurdle, you will start building a steady stream of XP and completing Milestones. The one mechanic that can give your city a substantial boost is the different development nodes you unlock using Development Points. These nodes offer unique upgrades to specific aspects of your city and are further broken down into somewhat linear skill trees. All told, there is an overwhelming number of nodes to choose from. If the stress of simply keeping up with building a functional and happy society is already pushing you to the limit, we'll help smooth over the process by telling you the best development nodes you need to unlock in Cities Skylines 2.
Best development nodes Development nodes are rewarded in stacks by reaching each of the 20 Milestone levels in Cities Skylines 2. Once you have some points, you can distribute them as you see fit among the 11 categories in the Progression menu.
Roads Roads are like the skeleton of your city; without a strong road structure, the entire thing will fall apart. It almost feels cruel that the advanced roads services node isn't a default option, but that just means you need to get it ASAP. This node allows you to manage traffic with basic functions like traffic lights, road signs, and crosswalks. You do need to place all of these down yourself, and while you can get by for a little while in the early game before your population gets too big, traffic will become a nightmare and productivity will slow to a crawl if you ignore it.
Gaming The Dark Place and Cultists in Alan Wake 2 may be dark and twisted manifestations of an evil force, but once you shed away the darkness, everything will fall into your arsenal of firearms. Neither Alan nor FBI agent Saga are exactly equipped with the firepower you'd want when wandering through the haunted woods and mind-bending Dark Place, but they can make do with what they have in clever ways. Saga specifically is skilled enough to upgrade all the weapons in her inventory to better protect herself against the supernatural threats that stalk her. Upgrades don't come cheap, and if you find all the weapons in the game, you will need to make some tough calls on how you improve them. Here are the upgrades you need to see the final chapter of Alan Wake 2's story.
How weapon upgrades work You can upgrade your weapons whenever you like in Alan Wake 2 by visiting Saga's Mind Place. Any weapon you have is available to upgrade there, provided you have the required amount of manuscript fragments that you collect from the hidden Luncboxes around the map. These are distinct from the Cult Stashes, so be on the lookout for them since you will need to find quite a few before you can afford even the first upgrade.
Best weapon upgrades More Bullets Your starting pistol may not be the most flashy gun in Alan Wake 2, but it is always reliable and it never stops being effective. The first upgrade you should get has to be More Bullets. This will increase the pistol's default magazine size from 12 to 18. This will obviously make it easier and safer to deal with encounters since you won't be caught reloading as often but also helps keep your inventory clean since less space will be taken up for ammo.
Another Headshot For another pistol upgrade, Another Headshot is very powerful if you're a sharpshooter. If you can score two headshots in a row, the unlucky Cultist will be stunned for a comically long time. That gives you plenty of time to either deal free damage, heal, or just run away if you're low on resources and not prepared for a fight.
Ready for More The best shotgun upgrade is easily Ready for More. Healing is not only a limited resource, which again takes up inventory space but also a somewhat long animation. If you're in a tight situation and on the verge of death, there usually isn't much you can do. Ready for More can bail you out since it will turn any kill you get with the shotgun into a bit of healing. It isn't a huge amount, but every bit makes a difference.
Two Shots The Crossbow may be a late-game addition to your toolset, but is absolutely worth saving some manuscript fragments to upgrade ASAP. Two Shots is borderline essential, making it so you can fire twice rather than just once before needing to reload.
Magnetic Pull Magnetic Pull could be the best upgrade in the game. With it, after you skewer an enemy with a bolt, switching to another gun will make those bullets track to the bolt for guaranteed hits. If you're comfortable swapping weapons on the fly, this is satisfying and efficient.
Gaming Marvel's Spider-Man 2 doesn't hold anything back when it comes to expanding on everything done in the first game. You have two Spider-Men to control, more districts to explore, tons of side quests and activities to do to gather upgrade materials, more skill trees, and gadgets, and on top of all that there are Suit Tech upgrades. By the time you unlock them, you may feel overwhelmed with the number of things to invest in, but these may be the most important upgrades to keep track of. Like the shared skill tree, these upgrades apply to both characters at once and can make the difficulty curve of the game far smoother by buffing up some very important stats on your characters. If you're feeling a bit burned out on all the options Spider-Man 2 already throws at you, we'll break down the best Suit Tech upgrades you should unlock ASAP.
Best Suit Tech upgrades Suit Tech upgrades apply all unlocked buffs to both characters and are divided into unique categories. Each one has a tree that takes more resources to unlock the higher-tier upgrades, but it also has two branches. You always unlock both options in a branch when you reach them, but can only equip one at a time.
Health Speccing into health is your first and top priority. The main buffs here are the Amazing, Spectacular, and Ultimate health upgrades that each increase your base HP by 10 points. You may not feel health is all that necessary to buff in the early game, but once you start facing bosses and the late-game grunts who are far more aggressive, you'll be begging for more health at all times.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
