Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to Win Fortnite Best Places to Land in Fortnite Fortnite Split-Screen Best Fortnite Skins Fortnite Augments Fortnite Guardian Shield How to Claim Fortnite Capture Points Fortnite Nitro Drifter Home Gaming Guides Fortnite Reality Augments: full list and how to use them By Jesse Lennox Close Every new chapter of Fortnite is a massive event. While seasonal changes bring plenty of minor tweaks and additions, it’s almost always when a new chapter rolls around that major overhauls or new mechanics are introduced.
Fortnite Chapter 4 was no exception, and aside from the extreme changes the island underwent, it brought one very important change to gameplay that makes a huge difference when going for that elusive victory royal (it isn’t easy to win Fortnite , after all).
Augments, well, augment the game. There are a few challenges that somewhat introduce what these are, but they leave out almost all the important details for you to find out on your own. Augments need to be considered, and deeply understood, not only for when you get them yourself but to know what new tricks your opponents could have up their sleeves. Before you get taken by surprise, here’s a complete breakdown of how to unlock augments and how they work in Fortnite.
What are augments in Fortnite? Augments, or Reality Augments, are a new perk system introduced into Fortnite.
 There are currently 20 augments in the game, but there are 32 total that cycle in and out with each Season. You can get access to multiple augments during a single match, but augments do not carry over after a match is finished, whether you win or lose. These perks can range from modifying certain weapon types to granting buffs for performing actions, and much more. There are no bad augments, so you will want to get as many as possible. Augments also have their own tab in your menu where you can see which ones you’ve had so far to track your progress using them all.
How use Fortnite augments Image used with permission by copyright holder Unlike guns, items, and most things in Fortnite , you won’t be finding or looting augments on the map itself. Instead, augments are dished out to all surviving players over the duration of a match. At around two and a half minutes into a game, you will be given the choice between two augments to place into one of four slots. After picking your first, so long as you survive and the game doesn’t end, you will get another pair to pick between every two and a half minutes or so. If you’re trying to complete the augment tab, pay attention to the augments with the word “new” beside it to indicate it is one you’ve never taken before and unlock it.
If neither of the two augments presented looks good, you can also hold the interact button at the bottom to reroll your options. You can reroll once for free, but if you have to do it again it will cost you 100 gold bars.
However, even if an augment is passive, you still need to activate it. To do this, press right on the D-pad (or your platform’s equivalent) to open the augment menu, highlight which one you want to use, and activate it with the right trigger.
Full list of Fortnite augments Here are all the augments currently in Fortnite : Aquatic Warrior – Move faster and regenerate health and partial shield while swimming.
Bloodhound – Enemies hit by your marksman rifle or bow shots are marked for a brief duration.
Exotic Grab Bag – Recieve a Random Heisted Exotic Weapon.
First Assault – The first bullet in the magazine of your Assault Rifle deals bonus damage.
Keymaster – Grants two keys for opening holo-chests.
Light Fingers – Makes your weapons using Light Ammo reload faster.
Medium Ammo Acquired – Instantly gain medium ammo, then gain more when you open containers.
Mythic Munition – Grants a Mythic Tactical Pistol.
Pistol Amp – Pistols have greatly increased magazine size.
Primal Companion – Gain thermal vision and regenerate Health while riding animals.
Reckless Rifel Reload – Your Assault Rifles will reload significantly faster when the magazine is empty.
SMG Sign Off – The last three bullets of your SMG magazine will deal bonus damage.
Soaring Sprints – While sprinting, you’ll be able to jump much higher — and jump with lower gravity.
Sprint Lines – Gain a Slap effect upon using grind vines, grind rails, zip lines, or Ascenders.
Shell Slide – Gain Shotgun shells while sliding.
Shotgun Striker – Shotguns give siphon on hits against players.
Steady Hands – Marksman Rifles have reduced recoil.
Swift Shotgun Reload – Your Shotguns will reload faster.
Traversal Warrior – You regenerate health and partial shields while on grind rails, grind vines, zip lines, and Ascenders.
Wildwasp Weaponry – Receive some Wildwasp Jars, and gain an additional one with every elimination.
Editors' Recommendations How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 How to get every ending in Lords of the Fallen All suits in Spider-Man 2 and how to get them How to get Hero Tokens in Spider-Man 2 How to open Prowler Stashes in Spider-Man 2 Fortnite Gaming Amid all the different tokens, memories, and photo-ops you need to collect in Marvel's Spider-Man 2, the one material that is both the most common and most necessary is Tech Parts. With the exception of your abilities, which only require skill points you earn by leveling up, essentially everything you can unlock or upgrade in the game will cost Tech Parts alongside one other material. You might think you will never run low early on when you start getting them in batches of over 100 at a time, but once you start unlocking all the slick new suits and styles and gadgets you want to upgrade, you'll realize just how desperate you are to get more. Your spider-sense can't help you with this one, so here are the best ways you can get Tech Parts in Spider-Man 2.
Best ways to get Tech Parts Tech Parts are the most basic upgrade component in Spider-Man 2, and the city is full of them. But you're better off using these methods to get them rather than others.
Gaming The amount of upgrade materials in Marvel's Spider-Man 2 can make your head spin at times. From all the different tokens, parts, and plain skill points, it can be hard to keep them all straight, let alone where you find each one. The game does a decent job of letting you know what rewards any activity on the map will give you by highlighting it, but when you're hunting for Rare Tech Parts it can be a pain to slowly scroll around looking for a way to snag some. Plus, if you want to be efficient in getting them, it will take even longer. Here is how you can get Rare Tech Parts in Spider-Man 2 so you can get your upgrades done and save the day.
Best ways to get Rare Tech Parts Technically Rare Tech Parts aren't any harder to get than other collectables like City Tokens, but are "rare" because you get them in much smaller quantities than normal Tech Parts. If you're hunting for them, your first stop should be any of the Prowler Stashes. These unlock very early in the story after Miles talks to his uncle and is sent to one to demonstrate how they work. Once you know how to solve the little environmental puzzles, they won't take you too long to get through, and they continue to appear as you move through the story. You get three for each you open.
Hunter Blinds are your next best source for Rare Tech Parts, giving five for any you complete, and are basically the opposite of Prowler Stashes. Instead of a little environmental puzzle to solve, these are combat (or stealth) focused encounters, so you can swap between them to add some variety to your Rare Tech Parts grind! Gaming New York is packed with different tasks, quests, and activities to complete as either one of your friendly neighborhood Spider-Men in Marvel's Spider-Man 2. In-universe, Peter and Miles will go out of their way to help anyone in need with no expectations of a reward, but as a player, we want a little prize for every task we do. Aside from just racking up XP, there are tons of materials you will need to upgrade different aspects of your heroes, such as Gadgets, Abilities, and even getting new suits. City Tokens are used for many of these upgrades so having a reliable source will make sure you are able to keep up with the deadly villains facing our heroes. Here is how to get City Tokens in Spider-Man 2.
How to get City Tokens in Spider-Man 2 City Tokens are mostly used for unlocking new suits and suit styles but are occasionally required for other upgrades as well. If you're running low, the easiest method to get some is to complete Photo-ops. There are 23 of these scattered across the map for you to track down, and each one rewards you with two City Tokens just for snapping a quick picture. If you're a particularly skilled photographer then you can even get a lot of the shots without even stopping while swinging by.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
