Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to Win Fortnite Best Places to Land in Fortnite Fortnite Split-Screen Best Fortnite Skins Fortnite Augments Fortnite Guardian Shield How to Claim Fortnite Capture Points Fortnite Nitro Drifter Home Gaming Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? For horror fans, Fortnite is secretly gaming’s best haunted house By DeAngelo Epps Close I never thought the day would come where I’d call Fortnite one of the greatest horror games of all time , but here we are.
Building horror Talking to creators Why Fortnite? If you find yourself questioning that revelation, I completely get it. “Is he talking about the tension of Battle Royale mode? Or maybe the zombies in the Save the World playlist?” No. I straight-up mean there is a fantastic horror game inside Fortnite.
 There are hundreds of them, in fact, and they’re all completely free. These experiences, made entirely by fans in the game’s creative mode, feel completely separate from the game they’re based in. When taking an even closer look, I found that an entire community of developers have been saturating the Fortnite horror genre with quality titles for audiences of all ages.
Someone asked for Fortnite UEFN Horror maps? #FortniteCreative2 #CreatedInFortnite #UEFN @fncreate pic.twitter.com/4sGIZt36ca Building horror Fortnite is most widely known for its Battle Royale mode, huge competitive scene, wild build mechanics, and, of course, its hundreds of pop culture collaborations that have changed the gaming landscape itself.
 But the more intriguing aspect of the game comes from fan-made efforts. Through a constantly expanding Creative mode, Fortnite has been giving developers the ability to put together their own levels, game modes, and a lot more. When I saw a mode that let me play as Freddy Fazbear from Five Nights at Freddy’s , I realized that the possibilities might just be endless in the right hands.
My fascination with Fortnite ‘s horror scene started last October when my little sister and I were craving a good multiplayer experience. There’s always the co-op Resident Evil titles , but we wanted something a bit scarier. I was already into finding random custom games for us to try in Fortnite , so that day I started digging for the scariest games on the platform. My mind was blown by the sheer amount of content to try out — and it was blown a second time when I realized how high-quality the content actually is. A full multiplayer recreation of sections from the first three Resident Evil games ? We were being treated to that at no cost.
Epic Games There are first-person levels that put you in a seemingly endless maze of stairs and hallways until you get hit with a jump scare by some horrific creature. Other games might throw you into some dark field or mansion where your only goal is to find a key, avoid some killer doll, and escape.
Call of Duty: Warzone devs share the design secrets of the best battle royale map Fortnite’s new ranked mode is great, unless you’re a Zero Build fan Fortnite Chapter 4 is plagued with bugs, and it’s spoiling my hammer time And there are a lot more, each if which feels nothing like Fortnite in the gameplay, audio, and visual departments. These games use all the developmental assets available in the game to find a unique presentation style. Immersive sounds, dark and dreary floorboards, and amazing usage of lighting make these projects almost unrecognizable from their Fortnite home.
Talking to creators My curiosity led me to the creators behind projects like this. I spoke with multiple creators within the community, who explained why Fortnite had become such a useful tool for their most ambitious ideas.
“Fortnite has grown a lot in the creative aspect now that Unreal Editor For Fortnite (Or Fortnite Creative 2.0/UEFN for short) is here,” Fortnite horror developer ChitaZ tells Digital Trends. “But I was interested in it back when Creative released in 2018 as well. I started creating experiences very early and got serious with it when UEFN & Island Engagement payouts were revealed. It all got me interested in learning Unreal Engine so that I could maybe get into creating Fortnite games full-time. I was super hooked, especially once a clip of a horror map I developed went viral.” Someone asked for Fortnite UEFN Horror maps? #FortniteCreative2 #CreatedInFortnite #UEFN @fncreate pic.twitter.com/4sGIZt36ca ChitaZ is among hundreds of developers constantly looking to scare the heck out of the millions of players looking for something other than the main Battle Royale mode. He’s created the horror game Scarecrow , and is currently working on a follow-up titled Haunted within the title. Both these games follow the same philosophy, which ChitaZ tells me is to make them look the exact opposite of Fortnite.
 To do that, he has to go through a lot of trial and error to surpass the limits of developing within a preexisting game and engine.
Fortnite creator RB26 explains just how this is possible. Due to the implementation of UEFN, developers can import their own character models with custom animations, unique immersive audio , ultrarealistic scenery, and even cinematics. While UEFN makes things a lot easier than they once were, it’s still definitely easier said than done, according to these creators.
SCP-096 | Shy Guy in Fortnite - Available now! Play now! https://t.co/Z8g6rFFTxp When you find an abandoned factory in the forest, you decide to go inside, but what you find there will turn your life into a nightmare.
#UEFN #FortniteCreative #CreatedinFortnite #SCP pic.twitter.com/oQqmBVvSWx “When I started out in 2019, it was way different,” ChitaZ tells Digital Trends. “We always had to try to use a workaround method to make certain things happen like sculpting characters using different shapes and furniture. I remember using a curtain for the hair of a clown once. Now that UEFN is here, the element of horror is much easier to create compared to back then. You do have to be careful that you don’t make the gameplay too difficult because of the Fortnite player base. And you have to respect the age rating of Fortnite so that kids can enjoy your experiences too.” ChitaZ and RB both explained how the age rating limitations work.
You can’t use any reference to blood, violence, or gore to be in line with the game’s T rating. You can’t really code your own AI enemies, which mostly limits devs to codes that are already in the game. It’s also not possible to currently use Unreal Engine Blueprint scripts in your Fortnite maps, which would open up possibilities like customizing the footsteps sounds based on the character’s speed.
Epic Games Why Fortnite? So why develop in Fortnite instead of getting past those developmental limitations set by Epic? Creators I spoke to actually plan to at some point, but according to RB, Fortnite ’s monetization possibilities, creation exposure, and beginner-friendly tools make it an ideal starting point. ChitaZ even tells me he was able to easily build an entire brand around his creations on X (formally known as Twitter), which die-hard fans are able to follow for map updates.
“It’s very easy to create with the UEFN tool and the normal creative mode, even for beginners. By publishing your game, a highlighting algorithm can make your game appear in the Fortnite menu, which will make your creation visible to millions of players who could play your game and maybe earn you some money if you are registered to the creator program.” Have you already played the new Fortnite Horror Game "Haunted"? 👻 🗺️ 9821-6557-3540 - Play with a squad of 4 - Find the missing keys - Scares - hunting phases & more! Scary horror map created with #UEFN @FNCreate #CreatedinFortnite #FortniteCreative pic.twitter.com/jOoeibt6fP Fortnite has been able to tackle so many barriers in gaming that it’s no surprise that its creative suite has now opened an entire genre of games within the game itself.
In the world of horror and beyond, the title has become a breeding ground for tons of free content and a place where developers can go to get their feet wet and eventually master programs like the Unreal Engine. And just think about the number of players who would probably never touch anything horror-adjacent that do so just because they can through the Battle Royale title.
So, even if you don’t like Fortnite , it might just be worth jumping in for a night or two to explore the horrific experiences you may find creeping around Tomato Town.
Editors' Recommendations Why do we love horror games? Psychologists explain our morbid curiosity Call of Duty: Warzone 2.0’s new update just nerfed the game’s best weapons Fortnite Chapter 4 Season 2 shows the secret to the shooter’s success I love Fortnite again thanks to its new chapter’s best change Fortnite’s Epic Games to pay $520 million over children’s privacy violations Features Fortnite PC Gaming Gaming For the past five years, new Fortnite players were simply thrown into the matches of battle royale and had to learn the game by themselves. Now, players finally have a way to learn the basics of Fortnite with the late-yet-welcome addition of a tutorial mode.
Fortnite Tutorial Mode Gaming Whenever horror games come to mind, I'm always thrown back to my first time watching the original Resident Evil remake via a YouTube playthrough. As a kid, I was too scared to even touch a horror game, so I settled for watching someone else play on the TV using the old Wii Opera internet browser channel. I remember seeing all the goofy cutscenes, laughing at Wesker's stale deliveries ("Jill, no!"), and thinking the game wasn't all that scary. "Maybe I can actually play this," I started thinking.
Resident Evil Remastered First zombie scene Gaming This season of Fortnite began like any other. Like always, I was excited to see what was being thrown into the mix to change the always-evolving game up. Epic Games excels when it comes to sprinkling the smallest tweaks to its battle royale formula that result in big meta changes. These tiny changes, like shifting map formations or simply throwing in one new item, always refresh the game and add a new way to play. That's what makes Fortnite the never-ending experience it is today.
Fortnite Chapter 3 Season 4 Official Cinematic Trailer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
