Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to Win Fortnite Best Places to Land in Fortnite Fortnite Split-Screen Best Fortnite Skins Fortnite Augments Fortnite Guardian Shield How to Claim Fortnite Capture Points Fortnite Nitro Drifter Home Gaming Guides Fortnite Nitro Drifter: locations and how to destroy items By Billy Givens Close Fortnite Chapter 4 Season 2 has come packing a variety of new locations, items, and features for fans to check out, from an exciting new cyberpunk city to explore to thrilling melee showdowns with the Kinetic Blade. You’ll find a lot to get into on the freshly revamped map, and some of it may even be a part of the season’s weekly quests, such as the Week 1 challenge “Destroy objects while drifting or boosting in a Nitro Drifter.” In this guide, we’ll tell you where you can find a Nitro Drifter racing car to knock out this challenge quickly and easily.
Fortnite Nitro Drifter locations How to drift the Nitro Drifter and destroy items Fortnite Nitro Drifter locations Image used with permission by copyright holder With the addition of multiple new vehicles in Chapter 4 Season 2, you’d be forgiven for not knowing precisely which one is a Nitro Drifter (pictured above). This colorful street racing car can be found in multiple spots around the map, but it’s most plentiful in and around Mega City — which unfortunately isn’t one of the best places to land in Fortnite , due to it being a hotspot. If you don’t want to deal with all of the competition you’re certain to face in downtown Mega City, your best bet for finding plenty of Nitro Drifters is by landing at the racetrack to the north of the city.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to drift the Nitro Drifter and destroy items If your goal is to complete the “Destroy objects while drifting or boosting in a Nitro Drifter” challenge, then hop into your chosen Nitro Drifter and set off toward some destroyable objects. The easiest thing to do to knock this quest out quickly is to simply hold down the drift button and slam into smaller items in or around the city. This can include street lamps, foliage, construction items, fences, or anything else you can find that will break when hitting it, so feel free to just aim for anything that you think looks breakable. Once you’ve destroyed 25 items, you’ll complete the challenge.
Editors' Recommendations Where to find planes in Fortnite OG All status effects in Lies of P and how to cure them All cross-platform games (PS5, Xbox Series X, PS4, Xbox One, Switch, PC) Fortnite Artifact Axe: how to destroy stones and best location This trick guarantees you’ll get bots only in every Fortnite match Android Apple Fortnite Google Microsoft Nintendo Nintendo Switch Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Xbox Xbox One Gaming Star Wars is once again taking over Fortnite with the brand-new Find the Force event, which brings a ton of new quests, items, and cosmetics to the popular battle royale. If you want to complete the full event reward track and earn all of the skins, one of the quests you'll need to knock out is opening a Republic Chest. Of course, you may want to seek these out each game anyways, as opening them will reward you with a new DC-15 Blaster, which is an immensely strong firearm that has infinite ammo and excellent range. Here's where to find Republic Chests.
Where to find Republic Chests and what's in them Republic Chests can be found at three locations on the Chapter 4 Season 2 map. You'll find some located about halfway between The Citadel and Shattered Slabs, some to the west of Slappy Shores, and some by the road southwest of Frenzy Fields. Land at one of these spots and search the white tent-like buildings there for the chests.
Each Republic Chest contains one of the new DC-15 Blaster firearms alongside a selection of random support or healing items. You'll commonly see Medkits, Small Shield Potions, and Chug Splashes pop out, so you shouldn't have much trouble getting prepared for battle from the items you get from the Republic Chests.
Gaming Star Wars Jedi: Survivor has a wide variety of skills to learn alongside its five unique lightsaber stances, ensuring you have no shortage of ways to customize your playstyle. The addition of perks bumps up those options even further, granting you the ability to equip badges that improve certain aspects of protagonist Cal Kestis' kit, such as increasing XP earned or improving his ability to break the guard of his foes. Some are found by exploring, while others are purchased from a particular vendor and unlocked fairly early in the game. A handful of perks are unlocked only after beating the game and starting New Game Plus.
Each of these perks uses a certain number of perk slots when equipped, so you'll have to make some tough decisions about which ones you want to have active at any one time. Luckily, exploring the galaxy will net you some additional perk slots, so you'll be able to equip more as you get further in your adventure. Even with all of the perk slots unlocked, however, you'll still want to strongly consider which perks will benefit you best. We'll make that a bit easier on you by listing all of the perks you can find in Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, what boons they offer, and how many perk slots they'll take up.
Perks discovered by exploring These perks are found by thoroughly exploring the world and completing objectives. You may have to overcome some pretty tough challenges to find them all.
Gaming Star Wars Jedi: Survivor takes place five years after its predecessor, and Cal Kestis has definitely gained some new Jedi tricks during the time that has passed. While there are some returning features that you're likely to recognize and appreciate, there are also a wide variety of new mechanics, skills, and more to check out in this highly anticipated follow-up. Among those new additions are an expanded set of lightsaber stances that allow you to decide what kind of fighter you want Cal to be. Whether you want to strike fast at the cost of defense, take things slower with bolstered protection, or find the middle ground between the two, you have five options that can ensure you'll find what works for you.
How to change stances You can have two stances equipped at one time, and switching between them can be done on the fly, allowing you to weave together different elements of your two chosen kits. However, you can only change stances at a meditation point, so you'll need to be sure that you've thought things through pretty well before heading out into dangerous areas. To help you with your decision-making, here are all of the stances in Jedi Survivor and how they work.
Single Blade Stance This stance is unlocked from the beginning of the game.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
