Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides All suits in Spider-Man 2 and how to get them By Jesse Lennox Close In the decades that the character of Spider-Man has existed, through comics, TV shows, games, and movies, he’s gone through quite a few suits.
Spider-Man 2 keeps the tradition alive by not only giving him a new suit to try out, but dozens and dozens of older ones to let you play as your favorite version of the webslinger. Oh, and did we mention Miles has his own extensive set of suits as well? Just like the first game, you won’t be handed the keys to the wardrobe for free. Each suit not only needs to be unlocked but also crafted using City and Hero Tokens, as well as Tech parts to get access to the additional styles most suits have. If you’re itching to dress up as the Spider-Man of your dreams as soon as you can, here is every suit in Spider-Man 2 and how you unlock them.
Note: Some suits are unlocked via story progress and could be considered spoilers. You have been warned.
All suits in Spider-Man 2 Sony Interactive Entertainment / Sony Interactive Entertainment Now that we’ve got two protagonists, we have two characters we can outfit with some iconic and fun suits. No suits overlap, and you can’t wear a Peter suit with Miles or vice versa, so keep that in mind as well.
All Peter suits Advanced Suit 2.0 – Unlocked by default Black Suit – Unlocked via story progress Symbiote Suit – Unlocked via story progress Anti-Venom Suit – Unlocked via story progress The following suits are all unlocked via leveling up in-game. You will unlock a suit at each level from 2 through 60, alternating mostly evenly between Peter and Miles.
Classic Suit – Unlocks at level 4 Scarlet III Suit – Unlocks at level 6 Amazing 2 Suit – Unlocks at level 7 Spider-Man 2099 Black Suit – Unlocks at level 11 Scarlet Spider Suit – Unlocks at level 14 Superior Suit – Unlocks at level 15 Anti-Ock Suit – Unlocks at level 17 Archnight Suit – Unlocks at level 20 Into The SPider-Verse Noir Suit – Unlocks at level 22 Homemade Suit – Unlocks at level 23 Spider-Punk Suit – Unlocks at level 26 Secret Wars: Civil War Suit – Unlocks at level 28 Iron Spider Armor – Unlocks at level 29 Webbed Black Suit – Unlocks at level 31 Webbed Suit – Unlocks at level 32 Upgraded Classic Suit – Unlocks at level 35 New Blue Suit – Unlocks at level 38 Upgraded Suit – Unlocks at level 41 Stealth Suit – Unlocks at level 46 Classic Black Suit – Unlocks at level 50 Iron Spider Suit – Unlocks at level 54 New Red and Blue Suit – Unlocks at level 58 Black and Gold Suit – Unlocks at level 60 Life Story Suit – Unlocks after completing all EMF tasks Last Hunt Suit – Unlocks after completing all Hunter Bases Saving Lives Suit – Unlocks after beating all The Flames missions All Miles suits Upgraded Suit – Unlocked by default Evolved Suit – Unlocked via story progress Family Business Suit – Unlocked via story progress Life Story Suit – Unlocked via story progress Classic Suit – Unlocks at level 2 T.R.A.C.K Suit – Unlocks at level 3 Brooklyn 2099 – Unlocks at level 5 Sportswear Suit – Unlocks at level 8 Miles Morales 2099 Suit – Unlocks at level 10 Advanced Tech Suit – Unlocks at level 12 Shadow-Spider Suit – Unlocks at level 13 Miles Morales 2020 Suit – Unlocks at level 16 Purple Reign Suit- Unlocks at level 18 Bodega Cat Suit – Unlocks at level 19 Forever Suit – Unlocks at level 21 Homemade Suit- Unlocks at level 24 Into The Spider-Verse Suit – Unlocks at level 27 Into The Spider-Verse 2B Suit – Unlocks at level 30 The End Suit – Unlocks at level 33 10th Anniversary Suit – Unlocks at level 34 Programmable Matter Suit – Unlocks at level 36 S.T.R.I.K.E Suit – Unlocks at level 37 Agent of Shield Suit – Unlocks at level 39 Great Responsibility Suit – Unlocks at level 40 Across the Spider-Verse Suit – Unlocks at level 42 Crimson Cowl Suit – Unlocks at level 44 Best There is Suit – Unlocks at level 48 Dark Ages Suit – Unlocks at level 52 Absolute Carnage Suit – Unlocks at level 56 Most Dangerous Game Suit – Unlocks after completing all Hunter Bases Smoke and Mirors Suit – Unlocks after completing all Mysteriums Boricua Suit – Unlocks after completing all Brooklyn Visions quests City Sounds Suit – Unlocks after completing all Cultural Museum quests King in Black Suit – Unlocks after completing all side quests Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music All Lunchbox locations in Alan Wake 2 All TV locations in Alan Wake 2 All nursery rhyme solutions in Alan Wake 2 Where to find all inventory upgrades in Alan Wake 2 Comic Book Movies Marvel Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming FBI agent Saga Anderson and her partner, Alex Casey, are called into Bright Falls to investigate a murder committed by a strange group calling themselves the Cult of the Trees. These dangerous cultists are your main enemy in Alan Wake 2, and they put up quite a fight despite mostly using basic tools as weapons. They seem mindless and primitive, but the fact that they have a series of Cultist Stashes hidden all around the world suggests otherwise. These treasure troves are very well hidden, and they're protected with a small puzzle to try and prevent those who may stumble upon one from grabbing all the goodies inside. You'll find yourself short on supplies essentially all the time in Alan Wake 2, so scooping up some extra ammo and batteries is always welcome. Here is where you can find all the Cultist Stashes in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them.
All Cultist Stash locations There are a total of 21 Cultist Stashes to find and unlock in Alan Wake 2. Each zone has its own set to find, and they all have different puzzles you need to solve to open them. None are missable, but some can't be obtained until you make story progress or get specific tools.
Bright Falls Cult Stashes The first Cult Stash you can find comes as soon as you reach the town of Bright Falls for the first time. Instead of going straight to your destination down the block, turn around and head toward the dead end. Behind the truck will be a big locked box. To open this one, all you need to do is play a little game of Simon Says. The keypad will flash three buttons in a sequence that you simply need to repeat to open the box and grab the loot.
Gaming Soulslike games love to have multiple endings that are just as cryptic and mysterious as the overall story is to unlock. Lords of the Fallen borrows this same idea in addition to the huge swath of weapons and gear to hunt down and experiment with. It will be tough enough for most players to just reach the end of this punishing game, but for those who are looking to go the extra mile, there are multiple endings with very specific requirements that lock away some very appealing rewards. The process of getting a new ending is far more difficult than answering a question or choosing a dialogue option at the end of the game. It will take quite a bit of preparation, so we'll detail exactly how you can get each ending in Lords of the Fallen and what it will give you.
All Lords of the Fallen endings There are three unique endings you can unlock in Lords of the Fallen known as the Radiance, Inferno, and Umbral endings. All three are tied to a Trophy/Achievement, plus unlock a new class.
Radiance ending We'll start with the most basic ending that you will probably get by default. The Radiance ending is unlocked if you cleanse all of the beacons, which is your explicit goal, and then move along the main path and beat all the bosses.
Gaming Dr. Connors, aka The Lizard, is forced back into his reptile state after Kraven injects him with his old serum in Marvel's Spider-Man 2. This would be bad enough, but he's also the only one who knows the truth about the symbiote and how to potentially get it off of Peter. Before that can happen, you need to track him down and inject him with the cure, and your search begins at his home in Queens. While exploring Connors' home, you discover that he had his own laboratory built underneath it for his experiments. Naturally, he wanted to keep this secret and put a passcode on the entrance. There's a small puzzle to uncover the code, and this isn't a puzzle you can skip. Here's how to open the lab.
How to open the Lizard's lab After exploring Connors' home and finding the panel to the lab, you will see a screen with four colored panels with one to four dots on each in order. Each one plays a tone, so the code is asking you to find the right musical tone. The clue here is the sticker of the barn on the upper right. If you visited the baby's room on the upper floor, you will have heard the Old MacDonald song when interacting with a toy in the room. That's the tone you need to recreate. The correct order to press the keys is 4,4,4,1.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
