Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to Win Fortnite Best Places to Land in Fortnite Fortnite Split-Screen Best Fortnite Skins Fortnite Augments Fortnite Guardian Shield How to Claim Fortnite Capture Points Fortnite Nitro Drifter Home Gaming Guides How to link Fortnite accounts By Jon Bitner Close One of the reasons everyone enjoys Fortnite so much is its cross-platform capabilities.
 Then there's also the freedom to carry over your progress between all those platforms. If you simply link all your profiles together, you can freely jump between platforms without losing any progress. The process is relatively simple and ensures you’ll be leveling up your battle pass regardless of the device you’re playing on. So long as you understand how to log in to your Epic account and know your credentials on all relevant platforms, linking your accounts should take no more than five minutes.
Further reading: How to link Fortnite accounts Linking to Xbox, PlayStation, and Nintendo Switch How to link accounts on next-generation consoles How to merge Fortnite accounts Difficulty Duration What You Need Fortnite account GitHub, Twitch, Xbox, PlayStation Network, or Nintendo Switch Further reading: How to get better at Fortnite The best weapons in Fortnite The best games like Fortnite How to link Fortnite accounts If you only play on PC or Android devices, you don’t have to worry about linking any other accounts. Because of the ongoing legal issues between Epic Games and Apple, iOS users are no longer able to play Fortnite on Apple devices. Hopefully, the game will make a return in the near future, but until then, the linking feature is unavailable to Apple owners. For everyone else, you’re only a few minutes away from playing on your preferred device.
Step 1: Head to the Epic Games website and sign in or create your account.
This will be the account you use for all versions of Fortnite , so consider adding two-factor authentication before you do anything else. You’ll also want to enable pop-ups for the site, as they’ll be necessary to properly link all your accounts.
Step 2: Once you’re signed in, go to your Account page and look for the tab on the left that says Connected accounts.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to play split-screen in Fortnite All suits in Spider-Man 2 and how to get them How to get tech parts in Spider-Man 2 Step 3: Now you’ll see options to connect accounts for GitHub, Twitch, Xbox, PlayStation Network, and Nintendo Switch. Select any of the latter three, and when asked whether you want to continue to the external site and provide them with more information, confirm your choice.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Linking to Xbox, PlayStation, and Nintendo Switch The process for doing this is nearly identical across all three services.
Step 1: Sign in to each respective service using the same username and password you use on the console.
Step 2: Give permission for the services to share your user information with Epic Games.
How to link accounts on next-generation consoles If you’re upgrading to next-gen consoles, there’s really not much you need to do — as long as your PlayStation Network ID or Xbox account is already linked, you should be able to jump into the battle royale without any extra steps.
If you followed all the steps correctly, you are ready to go. Your accounts are now all connected, and you can continue to play. If you unlock gear, progress, or anything else on one console, you’ll see it on your other platforms as well. If you’re playing with friends, then you can continue playing with them regardless of what platform you’re using.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to merge Fortnite accounts In May 2019, Fortnite dropped the feature that allowed different users to merge accounts. Players used to have the option of merging Epic accounts so they wouldn’t lose any V-Bucks, but now that you can play on any platform, you won’t need this option. The function was primarily used by gamers who started playing in 2018 when crossplay wasn’t as widespread as today. Back then, it wasn’t uncommon for people to have two different Fortnite accounts to play on PC and console, meaning two wallets with separate V-Bucks in each.
Epic doesn’t need the outdated merging technique since Fortnite now allows more sophisticated crossplay and account linking. Before this, you had to wait weeks for your accounts to link seamlessly, and you could still lose data in the process.
Editors' Recommendations Where to find planes in Fortnite OG Is Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 cross-platform? How to get Hero Tokens in Spider-Man 2 Fortnite: How to find Cursed Llamas and use the Techniques they drop Is Remnant 2 cross-platform? How-To Fortnite How-To Guides Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming Fortnite has a lot of ways to score items, but if you want to find some of the best stuff available in each match, you might want to take your chances with one of the game's Combat Caches, which must be claimed similarly to Capture Points. These tend to offer exceptional rewards when captured quickly, making them well worth fighting off any other players who may be trying to steal it from under you. Here's where to find Combat Caches and how they work.
Where to find Combat Caches and how they work Combat Caches can be found essentially anywhere on Fortnite's battle royale map and can contain high-quality weapons, utility items, and useful healing items. When one first appears on the map, it will be Legendary (gold) rarity, during which time it will contain the best items possible. However, the longer it goes unclaimed, the more its rarity will decrease, eventually capping at Rare (blue). This means that getting to it quickly is important if your goal is maximizing your loot gains – though the higher the rarity, the higher the chances of others showing up to fight you for the goodies.
Combat Caches aren't immediately accessible upon landing in Fortnite, meaning you'll have to wait a while for them to land. You'll be alerted with a marker on your map when a new one drops, but you'll need to make the trek to wherever it is if you want to score the loot inside. When you reach the Combat Cache, simply interact with it and select to retrieve the data, then stand near it for a while as its capture meter fills up. This can take a bit, so be prepared to fend off attackers who may also be coming your way. When the capture meter is full, you'll earn your rewards.
Gaming Fortnite Chapter 4 Season 3 has been a wild ride for fans of jungle exploration, but it has also been one of the game's least mobile seasons. As we inch closer to next month's Season 4, though, Epic seems ready to reintroduce some movement opportunities to players by bringing back the beloved Grapple Glove.
Arguably the game's most popular mobility item, the Grapple Glove is certain to please fans everywhere by providing a much faster way to move around the battle royale map (which can be the key to winning). Here's what you need to know about the return of this exciting tool.
Where to get Grapple Gloves in Fortnite and how they work Gaming It is very rare for a new console to release without some kind of issue. The best we as early adopters can hope for is that they are minor, possibly fixed with some tweaks in the settings menu, and not as severe as the infamous red ring of death that plagued the early version of the Xbox 360. Unfortunately, Sony's PlayStation 5, or more specifically the DualSense controller, has been gaining a lot of negative attention for a fault in the joysticks. The issue of joystick drift is almost identical to the one seen with Nintendo's Joycons, in that case called Joycon drift, except that it is showing up much sooner in the controller's life.
If you're noticing issues with your DualSense joysticks, there are a few methods you can try to repair them yourself. A drifting joystick essentially renders your games unplayable, and getting it repaired or replaced can leave you with no way to enjoy your console for days, and the cost of a new one can be steep. Before going through any of that, here's how to fix joystick drift on PS5.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
