Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to Win Fortnite Best Places to Land in Fortnite Fortnite Split-Screen Best Fortnite Skins Fortnite Augments Fortnite Guardian Shield How to Claim Fortnite Capture Points Fortnite Nitro Drifter Home Gaming Guides How to win Fortnite By Cody Perez and Joseph Yaden Close Fortnite is one of the most popular games ever made, reaching hundreds of millions of players since its debut. Still, many players have yet to see that oh-so-satisfying Victory Royale, despite dumping numerous hours into the shooter. But we’re here to help with advanced techniques that will help you get set up for the endgame portions of a match.
Tips and tricks How to win Fortnite Solo How to win Fortnite Duos, Trios, or Squads How to win Fortnite Zero Build This guide isn’t for beginners. These advanced tips are for those who know how to build a simple fort to defend themselves, how to quickly find chests, how to discern between the best Fortnite weapons , and so on. New players should first read our Fortnite beginner’s guide.
 Once you’re familiar with how each match plays out, check out our advanced tips below to learn how to win in Fortnite.
Tips and tricks Turn on visualize sound effects Before even jumping into a match, go into Settings within Fortnite and navigate to the Audio section. Here, you’ll find an option to Visualize Sound Effects.
 Turn this on and you’ll get a visual notification of many sounds, including enemy footsteps and chests. This will give you a huge advantage, as you’ll have a clear indication of where nearby enemies are at all times. Plus, it helps to know where chests are since having a robust loadout can lead you to victory.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica How to play split-screen in Fortnite The best field upgrades for Modern Warfare 3 Zombies Pick a suitable landing spot Image used with permission by copyright holder The fate of a match can be determined by your landing spot. If you’re a newcomer, landing at a hot location will likely lead to an untimely elimination. Likewise, landing somewhere with no loot will leave you unprepared for the first part of a match. We have rounded up all the best places to land in Fortnite to help you out.
Have a varied loadout Image used with permission by copyright holder In Fortnite , gunfights happen at all distances, from up close, to midrange, and from afar. Because of this, it’s best to ensure you’ve got weapons that work for all situations. For close-quarters, we recommend a shotgun or pistol, for mid-range, SMGs and assault rifles work wonders, and at long-range, you’ll want a sniper or DMR. Having a varied loadout will allow you to compete, no matter the situation. Likewise, it’s important to always start each gunfight with max health and shields, if possible.
Pay attention to enemy gunfire If you look at the top of the screen, you’ll see a compass that displays the direction of enemy gunfire. This is denoted by a red dot, so be sure to use this in conjunction with Visualize Sound Effects to gain a sense of where your opponents are.
Be aware of the storm’s position Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s important to not get tunnel vision as you play. If you get distracted, the storm will come and quickly sweep you up, leading to an early elimination. Instead, always take a peek at the timer below the minimap to make sure you know when the storm will move. Likewise, make sure you check the map itself to see where the next circle is so you don’t get caught.
Practice building in Creative Mode Building is a main component of Fortnite’s standard Battle Royale mode, but it’s a wildly complex mechanic that can be intimidating to learn. Rather than trying to learn within a live competitive setting, jump into a Creative match to practice building quickly. Your goal should be to learn how to put up a wall around you fast, which will come in handy when an opponent fires at you while you’re out in the open.
Play with (or watch) experts The best way to improve is to play with veterans. The benefits of this are massive, as you can learn little techniques you might not otherwise pick up on. Make sure to pay attention to the callouts, weapons, and little strategies used by expert players so you can implement them yourself. If you don’t have experts to play with, watching popular YouTubers or streamers can be useful, as well. Learning from your own mistakes is helpful, but so is learning from others.
Don’t shoot unless you know you’ll win the gunfight Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s easy to want to fire at every enemy you see, but oftentimes, simply spotting an opponent isn’t enough to secure the elimination. The enemy might be close to cover or might be good at dodging, so instead, we only recommend firing if you’re 100% sure you’ll knock them. Firing prematurely can tip off your foes, giving them enough time to prepare. The best course of action is to follow your opponent until you’ve got a clear shot while making sure there’s little to no cover around before firing.
How to win Fortnite Solo Image used with permission by copyright holder Playing Solo in Battle Royale is different from fighting alongside friends. When playing Solo, you don’t have teammates to watch your back, so you’ll need to be much more deliberate with your decisions as you aim to survive. This also means that, while you’re less likely to face multiple enemies at once (at least at first), you might come across more gunfights overall when compared to team-based modes.
Here are some tips to help you survive when playing Solo: Know your strengths and weaknesses Play it slowly and don’t be afraid to hide Assume there’s an enemy at each POI you visit Pay attention to how many players are left Vehicles are invaluable Pick your battles How to win Fortnite Duos, Trios, or Squads Image used with permission by copyright holder Team-based modes, on the other hand, play much differently. Having squadmates can greatly impact a match’s pacing, allowing you to win more gunfights, even if you’re thrown into situations you might not be comfortable with. Since you’ve got other players to watch your back, you can get out of sticky situations more frequently, especially if you communicate effectively.
Here are some tips to help you survive when playing with friends: Communication is key Stick with your team Use short, yet effective callouts (such as “on me” to tell your team there’s an enemy close to you) Don’t leave your back exposed Share supplies if needed Don’t quit if you’re eliminated How to win Fortnite Zero Build Image used with permission by copyright holder While many of the tips for standard Fortnite apply to Zero Build modes, the main difference is that your gun skill needs to be top-notch since you can’t quickly build a fort to hide behind. It’s a double-edged sword, as your foes are in the same boat as you are. This, in many ways, makes things easier since you don’t need to learn how to build walls around you. You can spend less time scavenging for resources, and more time moving around, allowing you to hopefully survive longer.
These are some tips for surviving in Zero Build mode: Be aware of the next piece of cover Accurate aim is far more important Use fast healing items when possible Since there are fewer pieces of cover in Zero Build mode, you’ll want to limit the amount of time spent out in the open as much as possible. In addition, getting caught with nothing to hide behind Editors' Recommendations Best Perk-a-Colas in Modern Warfare 3 zombies, ranked Where to find planes in Fortnite OG The best Call of Duty games, ranked How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: Mercenary Convoy guide Fortnite How-To Guides PC Gaming Gaming Building your loadout in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is the same as crafting your build in an RPG. Which weapons and perks you take can completely change how you play and what role you should take in any given match. Typically, you are restricted to equipping a primary and secondary weapon, but previous titles included a perk that allowed you to double up on primary weapons to essentially play double duty. That perk, Overkill, isn't in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, so you will need to look for a different solution to get two primary weapons this time around.
How to equip two primary weapons Instead of the Overkill perk giving you space to carry two primary weapons, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 introduces the Gunner Vest. This is a piece of gear rather than a perk, and can be unlocked when you hit level 20, or you can use the Overkill vest when you hit level 50. The Gunner vest lets you start with more ammo, reload faster, and, most importantly, equip two primary weapons.
Gaming The mega-popular Zombies mode has never undergone as massive of a restructuring as it has for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3. What was originally a round-based, co-op survival mode where you and a team of four gradually powered up, expanded the map, and maybe tried to complete a challenging Easter egg story has become something more of a mix of Zombies and the new DMZ mode from last year's entry.
While there will be plenty that is familiar to Zombies veterans, such as Perk-a-Colas and mystery boxes, you won't be able to rely on your old tactics anymore. Surviving the new Zombies mode is a completely new ballgame in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, but these tips and tricks will help you and your squad survive threats both old and new.
How is Modern Warfare 3 Zombies different than previous entries? Gaming It's time to grab your gear, reload your weapons, and get your squad ready for the final act in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3. This entry takes the multiplayer mode the series has built itself on to the next level, with the traditional multiplayer suite, zombies, and integration with Warzone 2.0. This is one of the biggest events of the year for many players, and you will probably be organizing your friends and family to all jump in and play together. But is that possible in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3? Cross-platform support isn't quite as ubiquitous as we hope yet, so let's breach this topic and extract the intel.
Does Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 have cross-platform support? Yes, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 has full cross-platform support. This means that you can squad up with players on any console -- PlayStation, Xbox, or PC -- and enter the battlefield together. This is true for any online mode in the game.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
