Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to get every ending in Lords of the Fallen By Jesse Lennox Close Soulslike games love to have multiple endings that are just as cryptic and mysterious as the overall story is to unlock.
Lords of the Fallen borrows this same idea in addition to the huge swath of weapons and gear to hunt down and experiment with. It will be tough enough for most players to just reach the end of this punishing game, but for those who are looking to go the extra mile, there are multiple endings with very specific requirements that lock away some very appealing rewards. The process of getting a new ending is far more difficult than answering a question or choosing a dialogue option at the end of the game. It will take quite a bit of preparation, so we’ll detail exactly how you can get each ending in Lords of the Fallen and what it will give you.
All Lords of the Fallen endings Ci Games There are three unique endings you can unlock in Lords of the Fallen known as the Radiance, Inferno, and Umbral endings. All three are tied to a Trophy/Achievement, plus unlock a new class.
Radiance ending We’ll start with the most basic ending that you will probably get by default. The Radiance ending is unlocked if you cleanse all of the beacons, which is your explicit goal, and then move along the main path and beat all the bosses.
All stash locations in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them All suits in Spider-Man 2 and how to get them How to get Hero Tokens in Spider-Man 2 This ending will give you the Radiant Purifier class.
Inferno ending The Inferno ending is much more complex, and you need to plan for it right from the start of the game. First, you need to not cleanse a single beacon, but still defeat the bosses protecting them and collect the Rune of Adyr from the Abbey of the Hallowed Sisters. After beating the Sundered Monarch in Bramis Castle, talk to the Effigy of Adyr which will turn your Rune of Adyr into the Empowered Rune of Adyr. Use this rune on each of the five beacons then defeat and enter the mind of the Judge Cleric Sentinal. Finally, using the rune with Iselle will trigger this ending.
The Inferno ending will unlock the Lord class.
Umbral ending Saving the most complex for last, it would be easier to simply list all the requirements for the Umbral ending for clarity. Here’s what needs to be done: Do not cleanse any beacons.
Beat Harrower Dervia the Pledged Knight and The Unbroken Promise in the Revelation Depths and find the well in the boss arena.
Buy and use the Umbral Scouring Climp at the well to go to Mother’s Lull.
Interact with the Remnant to get the Damarose’s Seedpod.
Use the seedpod on Damarose to kill her.
Repeat the process with Gerlinde’s Seedpod you get back at Mother’s Lull.
Beat The Lightreaper and get The Lightreaper’s Umbral Parasite.
Go back to Skyrest and use the parasite in the column near Molhu.
Get Melchior’s Seedpod from Mother’s Lull and the Rune of Adyr from the Abbey of the Hallowed Sisters.
Give the rune to the Remnant to get the Withered Rune of Adyr.
Use the seedpod on Melchior’s body in Bramis Castle.
Use the Withered Rune on The Iron Wayfarer in Fief of the Chill Curse to kill him and get Harkyn’s Umbral Parasite.
Use this parasite in the same place as the first.
Speak to Pieta and choose to soulflay to start a boss battle.
Win and get Elainne’s Umbral Parasite, which also goes in the column.
Talk to Molhu and enter Mother’s Lull and progress to the Umbral ending.
This ending will unlock the Putrid Child class.
Editors' Recommendations How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 How to change suits in Spider-Man 2 How to solve molecular identification puzzles in Spider-Man 2 How to open Prowler Stashes in Spider-Man 2 How to get tech parts in Spider-Man 2 Gaming The amount of upgrade materials in Marvel's Spider-Man 2 can make your head spin at times. From all the different tokens, parts, and plain skill points, it can be hard to keep them all straight, let alone where you find each one. The game does a decent job of letting you know what rewards any activity on the map will give you by highlighting it, but when you're hunting for Rare Tech Parts it can be a pain to slowly scroll around looking for a way to snag some. Plus, if you want to be efficient in getting them, it will take even longer. Here is how you can get Rare Tech Parts in Spider-Man 2 so you can get your upgrades done and save the day.
Best ways to get Rare Tech Parts Technically Rare Tech Parts aren't any harder to get than other collectables like City Tokens, but are "rare" because you get them in much smaller quantities than normal Tech Parts. If you're hunting for them, your first stop should be any of the Prowler Stashes. These unlock very early in the story after Miles talks to his uncle and is sent to one to demonstrate how they work. Once you know how to solve the little environmental puzzles, they won't take you too long to get through, and they continue to appear as you move through the story. You get three for each you open.
Hunter Blinds are your next best source for Rare Tech Parts, giving five for any you complete, and are basically the opposite of Prowler Stashes. Instead of a little environmental puzzle to solve, these are combat (or stealth) focused encounters, so you can swap between them to add some variety to your Rare Tech Parts grind! Gaming New York is packed with different tasks, quests, and activities to complete as either one of your friendly neighborhood Spider-Men in Marvel's Spider-Man 2. In-universe, Peter and Miles will go out of their way to help anyone in need with no expectations of a reward, but as a player, we want a little prize for every task we do. Aside from just racking up XP, there are tons of materials you will need to upgrade different aspects of your heroes, such as Gadgets, Abilities, and even getting new suits. City Tokens are used for many of these upgrades so having a reliable source will make sure you are able to keep up with the deadly villains facing our heroes. Here is how to get City Tokens in Spider-Man 2.
How to get City Tokens in Spider-Man 2 City Tokens are mostly used for unlocking new suits and suit styles but are occasionally required for other upgrades as well. If you're running low, the easiest method to get some is to complete Photo-ops. There are 23 of these scattered across the map for you to track down, and each one rewards you with two City Tokens just for snapping a quick picture. If you're a particularly skilled photographer then you can even get a lot of the shots without even stopping while swinging by.
Gaming Both protagonists in Marvel's Spider-Man 2 have been fighting crime for a while by the time the game starts, but what fun would it be if they started with all the skills in the game? Most of the best abilities and moves from Marvel's Spider-Man and Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales are back, but there are plenty of new techniques for our heroes to unlock. While you will earn tons of materials like Rare Tech parts, City Tokens, and Hero Tokens, everything you do will also give you varying amounts of XP.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
