Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features This might be why The Last of Us has terrible stuttering on PC By Jacob Roach Close The Last of Us on PC has launched in a dire state. Although I haven’t experienced as many issues as some players are reporting, the consensus is clear: the game is buggy, poorly optimized, and underbaked. It’s currently sitting with a Mostly Negative review status on Steam, which is typically reserved for the most broken games, like Battlefield 2042.
A possible source of stutter Upscaling can’t help A long road ahead Consider yourself warned if you want to jump into Joel and Ellie’s story on PC, especially if you just finished off the excellent HBO series.
 For players who already have the game, there’s a particular issue you should be aware of that relates to Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) and AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) , as well as demands on your system that go far beyond the recommended specs.
A possible source of stutter Image used with permission by copyright holder There are several issues with The Last of Us on PC — stuttering, crashes, and long loading times chief among them. I encountered some minor stuttering and long loading times, but never any crashes. It’s not surprising that the game is having issues on so many systems, though.
This isn’t the same problem as games like Gotham Knights experienced , as they suffered from shader compilation issues.
The Last of Us on PC, on the other hand, takes a notoriously long time to precompile shaders when you first load the game. For me, it was around 30 minutes, but some users report waiting upwards of two hours before the initial shader compilation was finished.
Some users are speculating that the long loading times are related to a bugged version of the Oodle decompression library that The Last of Us uses. Replacing the file associated with Oodle can apparently solve longer loading times, but I wouldn’t hold my breath on the stuttering issues.
The source of stuttering and crashes is likely due to the high CPU utilization and the high video memory requirements. The system requirements only call for a graphics card with 4GB of video memory, but I had a different experience. Even at 720p with the lowest preset, the game consumed close to 7GB of video memory. At native resolution with maxed-out setting, it consumed nearly 14GB.
Even if you have a GPU with 8GB of video memory — which, as a reminder, includes graphics cards as powerful as the RTX 3070 Ti — there’s a good chance you’ll run out of video memory, even with modest settings. That’s one possible source of stuttering and hitches, but there’s an even more pressing issue: your processor.
Upscaling can’t help Image used with permission by copyright holder DLSS and FSR are both super resolution tools that are meant to boost your frame rate by rendering the game at a lower resolution. Normally, that works great, and with the right rig, it works in The Last of Us on PC as well. I suspect most PCs will run into issues, though.
The problem is that The Last of Us on PC is very heavy on your CPU. Even at full resolution on my Alienware 34 QD-OLED , the game would hover between 30% to 50% CPU utilization. That’s higher than many real-time strategy games, which are notoriously heavy on your processor. If you turn on FSR or DLSS, that number goes up — I jumped into 70% territory after turning on either.
That’s extremely high for such a linear game. There are games that are prone to CPU bottlenecks like Marvel’s Spider-Man , but they generally involve large open worlds with lots of simulations.
The Last of Us is a linear experience, and although there are some CPU-bound settings, they don’t improve performance. Even turning down the game to its lowest graphics preset didn’t change the CPU utilization at all.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The kicker is that I was testing the game with an Intel Core i9-13900K , which is undisputedly one of the fastest gaming processors you can buy right now. Lower-end chips will struggle more, likely maxing out the utilization and causing stutters or crashes.
Back to FSR and DLSS, though. Both of these features work by rendering the game at a lower resolution. This is entirely a function of your graphics card reducing the load it has to carry. Consequently, that increases the load on your processor. Now, instead of your processor waiting on your graphics card, your graphics card is waiting on your processor. We have a CPU bottleneck.
That means DLSS and FSR won’t improve your performance, which is exactly what I noticed during testing. Turning on DLSS or FSR to their Quality modes boosted my frame rate with an RTX 4080 and Core i9-13900K, but even going to the Ultra Performance mode with FSR 2 did nothing to increase my performance further. If you’re already running into a bottleneck at native resolution, turning on a super resolution feature won’t help.
A long road ahead Although it’s possible that a bugged version of Oodle will miraculously fix The Last of Us on PC, the port has several other issues related to performance. High CPU and VRAM usage can lower performance across the board, and spikes in either can lead to stuttering and hitches. Even worse, tweaking the dense graphics menu does little to optimize how demanding the game is.
The Last of Us Part I PC players: we&#39;ve heard your concerns, and our team is actively investigating multiple issues you&#39;ve reported.
We will continue to update you, but our team is prioritizing updates and will address issues in upcoming patches.
&mdash; Naughty Dog (@Naughty_Dog) March 28, 2023 Naughty Dog is aware of the problems and working on a fix, though it should be noted that Iron Galaxy handled the port — that’s the same studio responsible for the infamous Arkham Knight PC port. I’m sure there are patches incoming to fix the issues that are easy to spot, such as the Oodle library, but further optimization to reduce VRAM requirements and CPU usage are important to get the game functioning on more systems.
Editors' Recommendations Naughty Dog confirms The Last of Us Part II Remastered following leak What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED Alan Wake 2 is proof that more PC games need a potato mode 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why As a pro PC builder, here are 5 building tips no one tells you Gaming Action Games Features PC Gaming Gaming A new report revealed that Naughty Dog has ended several contracts it had with developers early, laying off around 25 developers. This had a negative impact on The Last of Us multiplayer game but, more importantly, is chillingly just the latest batch of layoffs in a rough couple of months for the video game industry.
These contracted developers were informed that their contracts were ending prematurely at the end of October and that they'd get no severance afterward, according to the report at Kotaku. Reportedly, most of these layoffs at Naughty Dog, PlayStation's darling studio that employs over 400 developers, come from the quality assurance, art, and production teams. According to Kotaku, Naughty Dog asked its developers to keep quiet about it. That didn't happen, though, with developers telling Kotaku not only about the layoffs but that the multiplayer The Last of Us game "while not completely canceled, is basically on ice at this point." Concept art for Naughty Dog's Last of Us multiplayer title. Naughty Dog These layoffs are unfortunate but sadly not uncommon for the game industry. Throughout the last few weeks, studios like Ubisoft, Creative Assembly, Ascendant Studios, and Epic Games have all laid off people. Epic, in particular, cut a whopping 16% of its workforce despite the fact that Fortnite is one of the most popular video games. Then, there are studios like Saints Row's Volition, support studio Puny Human, and Boomerang X's Dang are closing entirely.
Although 2023 has been a year full of fantastic games like The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, Street Fighter 6, and Baldur's Gate 3, it's unfortunate that it has been so rough for the developers who actually make the games in this gigantic industry. It's clear something needs to change.
Computing Most gaming PCs have a certain kind of aesthetic that often screams "gamer." RGB lights and strangely shaped chassis can stand out like a sore thumb if they don't match the aesthetic of your space. But if you're big on the design side of things and still want a powerful PC, Maingear has just launched two new prebuilt desktop lines that might suit you. Dubbed North and Noctua North, they both come equipped with some of the best graphics cards and processors.
The PCs are part of the new Maingear Drops program, which are limited-edition PC releases that the company says will evolve over time. Maingear split these two releases into a "Series" tier and a "Limited Edition" tier, and the difference is that Series products span several different models with varying specs, while the Limited Edition is a single preconfigured rig.
Computing AMD has said it's done with new GPU dies, but a filing with the European Economic Commission (EEC) suggests that Team Red could still launch graphics cards in its RX 7000 range.
The filing points to AMD releasing an RX 7600 XT sometime in the future, both in 12GB and 10GB variants. AMD's Scott Herkelman says the RDNA 3 lineup is "complete," so what gives? It comes down to the GPU dies.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
