Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Features The best PS5 exclusives of 2022: standouts from the console’s strong second year By Tomas Franzese Close Image used with permission by copyright holder The PlayStation 5 got off to a strong start with games like Demon’s Souls in 2020, and kept that momentum going throughout 2021 with titles such as Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart.
It showed no signs of slowing down in 2022. Many great exclusives dropped this year, many of which we’ve known about since before the system even launched. The lineup is full of high-quality titles, many of which emphasize their gorgeous visuals and compelling narratives. From sequels to critically acclaimed titles to ambitious new franchises, these seven games stand as the best PS5 (and PS4) console exclusive games of 2022.
God of War Ragnarok Gran Turismo 7 The Last of Us Part 1 Stray Horizon Forbidden West Rollerdrome Ghostwire: Tokyo God of War Ragnarok Image used with permission by copyright holder Not much needs to be said about God of War Ragnarok.
 It’s a massive follow-up to the series’ critically acclaimed 2018 soft reboot, and it goes bigger in almost every way. There are more gods to fight, realms to be explored, and weapons to take on hordes of foes with.
God of War Ragnarok is a satisfying action game that tells a large-scale story, but it still takes time to focus on its characters and the journey of Kratos and Atreus as they learn to communicate better.
 Anyone who owns a PS5 or PS4 owes it to themselves to pick up God of War Ragnarok.
Gran Turismo 7 Image used with permission by copyright holder Polyphony Digital’s fancy Gran Turismo racing game series made its grand return in March with Gran Turismo 7.
Although its live service elements proved divisive , Gran Turismo 7 still stands as a beautiful racing simulator focused on educating and immersing players. As you make your way through, its Café Menus that serve as the backbone to the game’s single-player campaign will teach you a lot about automotive history and what makes individual cars from each manufacturer special. After that, you can go online and enjoy intensely (and sometimes very long) races with realistic physics. Gran Turismo games typically only drop once a gaming generation nowadays, so racing game fans will want to check this one out.
Everything announced at PlayStation’s September 2022 State of Play PS5 ad gives release window for Horizon: Forbidden West, Gran Turismo 7, more The Last of Us Part 1 Image used with permission by copyright holder Although this remake is a little bit redundant as the original’s remastered edition still looks and plays well on PS5, The Last of Us Part 1 is still a stunning game. This post-apocalyptic zombie title looks, runs, and plays better than ever. A wave of new accessibility options allow those who could never play the original the chance to experience Joel and Ellie’s story.
The Last of Us is one of the best games of all time, and that doesn’t change with this PS5 remake. Check The Last of Us Part 1 out if you’ve never played the original and want to see what the fuss is about before its HBO show premieres in January.
Stray Annapurna Interactive A PlayStation console exclusive (also available on PC), Stray is a game made for cat people. You control an adorable orange feline and do things that will make any cat owner chuckle as you explore a neon-dripping post-apocalyptic world inhabited entirely by robots. It’s not a complex adventure game, but it gets the most out of the idea of a game starring a cat that looks and acts realistically. With excellent art direction and sound design, Stray is a great indie showpiece for the PS5.
Horizon Forbidden West Image used with permission by copyright holder Releasing a week before Elden Ring didn’t do Horizon Forbidden West any favors, but it’s still a great open-world experience. Like God of War Ragnarok , it scales up from its predecessor with a bigger world, more enemies to fight, and more tools at Aloy’s disposal.
Horizon Forbidden West is one of the best-looking games on PS5 and tells an increasingly relevant story about how big tech companies and rich oligarchs treat our world. If you missed out on this PS5 and PS4 exclusive when it was released because of other notable games, go back and check it out now.
Rollerdrome Image used with permission by copyright holder Max Payne meets Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater is an unlikely game combination best used to describe Rollerdrome.
 Roll7 are masters at making games that feel smooth and rewarding to play, and Rollerdrome is no different. Its colorful visuals pop off the screen, while rollerblading around, grinding, and performing tricks will keep you busy as you accrue ammo to fire at enemies. While many of PS5’s biggest titles put most of their focus on story, Rollerdrome is a console exclusive that first and foremost focuses on excellent gamefeel. If shooting people in slow motion while rollerblading around a skatepark sounds enticing to you, check out Rollerdrome.
Ghostwire: Tokyo Bethesda Softworks Although Bethesda might be owned by Microsoft now, Ghostwire: Tokyo was still a PS5 exclusive when it launched back in March. It’s a horror action game where players take on occult opponents that made the entire population of Tokyo disappear.
Ghostwire: Tokyo is a visually impressive first-person action game almost entirely focused on magic, so it isn’t like anything else in the PS5 exclusive game lineup. It’ll likely come to Xbox Series X and S next year as Deathloop did in September, but those who have a PS5 will have a very good time with Ghostwire: Tokyo right now, nonetheless.
Editors' Recommendations The best Nintendo Switch exclusives of 2022: 9 standouts from the console’s banner year Our most anticipated PlayStation 5 games of 2022 2022 in Gaming Action Games Features Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Gaming November 19 marks the 25th anniversary of the original Half-Life, and to celebrate, Valve made a special announcement. No, Half-Life 3 was not announced. But Valve celebrated the anniversary with a massive update to the game on PC and a new documentary detailing its development. The best part: It's all available for free.
Half-Life's 25th-anniversary update incorporates the Half-Life: Uplink demo that Valve gave away as a CD via magazine and hardware manufacturer promotions in the 1990s and introduces many multiplayer maps. That includes four brand-new maps -- Contamination, Pool Party, Disposal, and Rocket Frenzy -- and three more maps that were previously only included in the Half-Life: Further Data CD release: Double Cross, Rust Mill, and Xen DM. It's also now possible to play as a Space Biker, Prototype Barney, Skeleton, and Too Much Coffee Man and use dozens of Further Data sprays in Half-Life: Deathmatch.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
