Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Naughty Dog confirms its working on a new single-player game in odd apology post By Giovanni Colantonio Close The Last of Us developer Naughty Dog has confirmed that it’s working on a new single-player game in a fairly odd manner. The news came in the middle of an apologetic post explaining why the studio didn’t show its upcoming Last of Us multiplayer project during this week’s PlayStation Showcase.
pic.twitter.com/DOeO8ZHSlh &mdash; Naughty Dog (@Naughty_Dog) May 26, 2023 Naughty Dog teased the project last year during Summer Game Fest, confirming it was early in development. The studio only showed some concept art at the time and hasn’t said much since. While the game was never scheduled to appear during this week’s Sony livestream, fans had anticipated that it may be part of the show. It wasn’t, leading Naughty Dog to address its fans.
While the post mostly explains why the reveal (which was never confirmed for the show) didn’t happen, it dropped some surprising information: that it’s also working on a brand new single-player game.
“We’re incredibly proud of the job our studio has done thus far, but as development has continued, we’ve realized what is best for the game is to give it more time,” the studio says. “Our team will continue to work on the project, as well as our other games in development, including a brand new single-player game.” There’s currently no word on what that game is, but one could logically assume that it might be The Last of Us Part III.
 The series has become Sony’s tentpole franchise, leading to a popular TV adaptation that’s in need of more material if it’s going to get past season 2. There’s also a chance it could be a new installment of the Uncharted series or something entirely new.
While the transparency on the project is welcome, the post itself is a little strange considering that Naughty Dog never set any expectation that it was showing off its multiplayer game anytime soon. There may be another reason for that apology, though.
Bloomberg reports that the developer is currently reassessing the project after scaling it back. Naughty Dog did not respond to Bloomberg’s request for comment, but the apology came right on the heels of the report’s publication.
Editors' Recommendations Naughty Dog confirms The Last of Us Part II Remastered following leak We tasted The Last of Us Part II’s apocalyptic new whisky The Last of Us Part I beginner’s guide: 9 tips and tricks to get started Last of Us Part I coming in September, multiplayer spinoff in development Uncharted: The Lost Legacy steals the show in new collection Action Games Sony Sony PlayStation Tech News Gaming Sony has finally acquired Bluepoint Studios, the standout developer that's worked closely with the company for years now. Rumors of an acquisition were first leaked by Sony Japan earlier this year after the media giant purchased Housemarque. Bluepoint is already hard at work on a new, original game.
Bluepoint's acquisition should come as no surprise. The developer has a number of successful PlayStation-exclusive titles under its belt, including the PS4 remake of Shadow of the Colossus, Uncharted: The Nathan Drake Collection, and one of the PS5's first hits, 2020's remake of Demon's Souls.
Gaming Naughty Dog's latest masterpiece, The Last of Us Part II, is an incredibly violent game. Without getting into spoilers, it's a revenge story in which the main character, Ellie, can brutally take out enemies who stand in her way. Not all of them are human, though. Some are infected creatures that are mutated with a strain of the Cordyceps fungus. While you probably won't feel bad for killing those enemies, you might want to avoid eliminating the various dogs you come across.
Vicious enemy dogs have been featured in video games before, but they're particularly realistic in The Last of Us Part II, making it tougher to justify killing them, even if they're attacking you. Luckily, you don't actually have to kill the dogs you encounter. This is a stealth game, after all, so you can sneak by them if you know what you're doing.
Gaming After some extensive, deliberate, and difficult debates, the Digital Trends Gaming team has reached a consensus: The Last of Us Part II is our favorite game of the year.
The recurring theme among our top nominees this year was communication. In 2020, video games weren’t just a solitary hobby that helped players unwind after a long day of work. They played a key role in filling social gaps that faded away when the COVID-19 pandemic sent the world into lockdown. The year’s most memorable games connected the people who played them in some way, creating wider conversations between disparate players, for better or worse.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
