Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides The Last of Us Part 1: best weapon upgrades By Jesse Lennox Close Everything is scarce in The Last of Us Part 1.
 You will constantly be running low on supplies, ammo, health, and maybe even hope. This game functions a lot like survival horror games, in which managing your inventory is just as important as being able to land that critical headshot. Your arsenal, in terms of firearms, is not terribly large, but you do have the ability to upgrade each weapon in a number of ways to help you make the most of every precious bullet you find.
How to upgrade weapons Best weapon upgrades to get Weapon upgrades, just like skill upgrades, are not free — they both cost a limited resource. However, weapon upgrades also have an extra layer of restriction in that you can’t simply stop and upgrade a weapon whenever you feel like it. When you are able to upgrade, you also have to consider which gun you want to invest in, how you want to invest in it, or if you want to save up for a future weapon or a more expensive upgrade later. It’s a delicate balance, but we’ve picked the best weapon upgrades to help you survive your journey in The Last of Us Part 1.
How to upgrade weapons Image used with permission by copyright holder To upgrade weapons in The Last of Us Part 1 , you will need four things: a weapon (duh), parts, a workbench, and tools. Weapons will be gained through story progression, though you can technically miss one, while parts you need to pick up off the ground, in drawers and cupboards, and often in large amounts behind shiv doors. Tools are more rare but unlock new upgrades for weapons. The max tool level you can reach is five. Finally, workbenches are set locations where you can stop, take a breath, and spend your parts to improve your weapons in various categories.
The best PS5 exclusives The best PS5 games for 2023 The best weapon upgrades in Alan Wake 2 Best weapon upgrades to get Image used with permission by copyright holder Weapon holsters This is one of the first upgrades you should get. Holsters increase either your pistol or long gun carrying capacity to allow you to quick-swap between two of each type on the fly. Even though you can switch to every weapon you have, unless they’re on your quick menu, this is a cumbersome process to do, especially while in the middle of a firefight or as a swarm of Clickers are rushing you down.
You will almost never feel completely comfortable with the amount of ammo you have for any one or maybe even two guns, so the more weapons you can easily swap between, the better.
El Diablo: armor piercing El Diablo is no doubt the best overall sidearm in The Last of Us Part 1.
 This powerhouse is powerful enough to kill enemies in just one or two shots and even comes with a scope, making it essentially a handheld rifle. It can even down a bloater in two, sometimes three, shots. The downside is that you don’t come across it until somewhat late in the game, and its ammo is pretty rare.
To make the most of each shot you do have, upgrade the armor piercing stat to make sure any enemy you do decide is worth a bullet doesn’t get back up. You can upgrade this twice, both costing 75 scrap and requiring level four and five tools, respectively.
Hunting Rifle: scope and armor pierce The hunting rifle is your no-frills, reliable long gun. Unless enemies are up in your face, this is a strong choice to pull out for most situations. This gun comes with very high base damage but with a low fire rate and reload speed to compensate. Without upgrades, it is about on par with El Diablo, except that headshots on humans are a guaranteed kill.
The scope and armor pierce are essential for this gun. The scope should be an obvious one. This gun is all about landing those critical headshots, and lining them up is much easier when you get a better view of the target. It will cost you 25 scrap for level one and 35 for the second, which is very cheap. While you may be tempted to go for the raw damage upgrade, and you certainly could, get the armor-piercing upgrade first to let you blast Clicker’s heads off with a single bullet and rip through armored humans. This is another cheap investment, with level one costing just 15 scrap and level two bumping it up to 40. If you’ve got everything unlocked, even a body shot will kill an armored enemy in one.
Pump Shotgun: recoil and range What would a zombie game be without a good shotgun? The pump shotgun is your classic, reliable mid- to close-range problem-solver in The Last of Us Part 1.
 If you’re close enough, you don’t even need to upgrade this gun at all to blow away humans and Clickers alike in a single blast. That said, the farther you are, the faster the damage drops off, so pick your moments to draw and fire carefully.
Odds are, a shotgun is coming out when things have gone bad and enemies are right up in your face. When that happens, the last thing you need is for your shots to miss due to the massive kick of the gun. You can cut the recoil down by two levels, costing 15 and 40 scrap, respectively. Range is your next best option here. Obviously, you won’t be sniping with this gun, but adding some range will make the damage drop-off feel less like you have to actually press the nuzzle of the gun into an enemy for it to be effective. These two levels will cost 30 and 50 scrap.
Bow: range The bow is the unsung hero of The Last of Us Part 1.
 This is the only ranged stealth weapon in the game and even has a chance to let you collect your arrows from your target. You don’t want to whip this out when things are kicking off and you’ve got bullets flying at you already, but if you use it wisely, the bow can let you take out entire encounters without ever alerting the group.
The bow has the fewest upgrades of the lot, and only range is really necessary if you’re using it right. Reload speed and draw speed won’t really be important if you’re in stealth when using it, after all. Range, though, can make sniping those isolated targets from a safe location much easier. You can buff this stat three times, and it won’t even break your scrap bank, costing 20, 30, and 50 scrap for each level.
Everything: clip size Finally, if you’re using any of these guns or not, upgrade whatever you’re fond of with more clip size, if possible. This is massively important for two reasons. First, you obviously don’t want to run out of shots in a critical moment and need to reload. Second, there’s the added benefit of just being able to hold more ammo in stock. Again, you’ll rarely find yourself flush with ammo, but even so, you can’t really hold many rounds for any one gun in reserve. The bigger your clips, however, the more ammo you can keep in the gun, and thus more ammo on your character overall.
Editors' Recommendations Naughty Dog confirms The Last of Us Part II Remastered following leak The PS5 games with the best graphics All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Where to find Aunt May’s grave in Spider-Man 2 All suits in Spider-Man 2 and how to get them Action Games Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming It seems like a requirement for superhero games to bring in a villain just to set up challenges for the hero to complete. In the first Spider-Man, this was Taskmaster, but in Spider-Man 2, we get Mysterio and his Mysterium challenges. Not only are they simply fun ways to test your spider skills against some unique trials, but you can also get your hands on some Hero Tokens for performing well. Plus, you also get a little more insight into this unique former villain. That's all well and good, but by this point in the game, you should know that you won't be given the exact locations for each challenge right away. If your spider-sense is failing you on where to find all the Mysteriums in Spider-Man 2, we'll mark your map so you can swing straight to the action.
All Mysterium locations and requirements Mysteriums, also known as mysterium dev diaries, unlock after you complete Chapter 12 of the main game. This is the chapter where you first meet Mysterio at the carnival while playing as Miles and go through his attraction. Once you beat this chapter, a few Mysteriums will appear on your map, but more will pop up as you continue to go through the story. You need to do them all as Miles, and each rank earns you Hero Tokens. Here is where you can find them all.
Under Construction - Harlem This is a "defeat all enemies"-style challenge, but these always come with a twist. In this case, around halfway through the challenge, poison gas will fill the arena and constantly drain your health. You can heal to recover, but if you're on a good pace and have upgraded your health, then you should concentrate on using your Focus for finishers to complete the challenge faster.
Gaming Get me pictures of Spider-Man! Well, actually, in Spider-Man 2 you never actually have to snap any pics of either Spider-Man. As established in the first game, Peter has already moved on from his job as a photographer for the Bugle and is focused completely on science (when not saving the day, of course). When that doesn't work out well enough to pay the bills, he falls back on his old freelance photography gig to help make ends meet by going to key spots around the map to snap some shots to sell. These are among the most numerous icons you will see pop up on your map as you play, and while each one only rewards two City Tokens for completing them, they take a few seconds at most to get the perfect shot. Let's take a tour of the city to find all the photo-op locations in Spider-Man 2.
All photo-op locations Photo-ops will populate the map in batches as you go through the game, but ultimately, there will be 23 unique spots you will need to stop and get a picture of to complete the entire quest. To snap the perfect picture, swipe down on the touchpad to open up your camera app when near the target area and look for whatever subject you need to capture. This will be obvious in nearly all situations, such as the above mascots, or a piece of art, or even entire buildings. The camera itself will help you as well. If you're in range, the text will let you know if the subject is in view, obscured, or in focus. Once the ring is green, that shot will count and you can hit R1 to take the shot. After each one, you get a little bit of context and dialogue about whatever it is you are submitting.
Gaming After the events of Miles Morales, the Prowler has officially retired by the time Marvel's Spider-Man 2 begins. While he can't help Miles out in action anymore, his uncle still has some secrets in store for his super-powered nephew. Before he was forced to hang up his hood, Prowler had a series of resource caches stashed all over the city. With him no longer able to make use of them, he tells you how to find and open them to get the goodies inside. This is one of the best ways to get your hands on Rare Tech parts needed for upgrades in the game. Let's track down all these hidden Prowler Stashes in Spider-Man 2.
All Prowler Stash locations There are nine total Prowler Stashes in Spider-Man 2, with some locked until you get to certain points in the story to keep you from looting them all at once. Once you get close, you will see a section of a building, almost always the rooftop, glowing in an outline of the zone where the stash is. Enter and solve the little puzzle to find and grab the rewards. Here is where you can find each stash: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
