Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews The Last of Us Part II review: A dark masterpiece The Last of Us Part 2 feels like a continuation worth waiting for By Lisa Marie Segarra Close $59.99 Deep emotional impact Well-written narrative Stunning visuals Fine-tuned gameplay mechanics Characters are fully developed and believable High level of detail in-game and in options Gating inhibits more full exploration Releasing a follow-up to a deeply beloved game is daunting and can easily leave fans disappointed.
The Last of Us Part II pulls the feat off effortlessly.
Emotional impact Gameplay Visuals and details Our take This sequel expands on what was already a well-crafted story and perfects it. It does the first release justice, expanding on the original without straying too far, which could alienate fans hoping to get a taste of what they loved the first time around. If you haven’t experienced the original check it out at the link below.
Naughty Dog devs suffer layoffs, reportedly impacting Last of Us multiplayer spinoff Naughty Dog confirms its working on a new single-player game in odd apology post The Last of Us TV show will return for Season 2 at HBO The Last of Us weighs heavily on this entry, as the ramifications of Joel’s actions have sprawling effects, and history does not go unforgotten. Ellie and Joel have made a new life in Jackson, Wyoming, but the game lets players know that moving on isn’t so simple.
The plot is certainly dark, but it never feels edgy. There’s a sense of empathy even for your enemies. Obviously, the game packs plenty of unexpected twists that make The Last of Us Part II feel emotionally and narratively polished. There are Easter eggs and quippy jokes, but this is a revenge story. That is never forgotten.
Emotional impact The Last of Us was lauded for its emotional narrative that left players reeling, and Naughty Dog’s sequel finds a way to expand on that.
The Last of Us Part II is a gut punch in the best way.
I can’t count the number of times I stared wide-eyed at the screen, thinking, “No. That can’t be right. That can’t be how this goes.” Players of the first game already know and love Ellie, so it’s easy to buy into her story. That said, this not a happy tale. Fans likely expect that, since Sony referred to the plot as one of a quest for vengeance. But The Last of Us Part II takes many dark turns. It twists, mangling your expectations and, with it, your sense of comfort.
I can’t count the number of times I stared wide-eyed at the screen, thinking, “No. That can’t be right. That can’t be how this goes.” And while I thought I knew Ellie, playing the game feels like running into an old friend I grew apart from. Sure, that’s her — but she’s older, and her attitude has grown from a spunky, tough kid to a jaded survivor.
Ellie is still fiercely loyal and fearless, but she’s lost the hope she had in the first game. That’s likely because, in the original, Ellie was on her way to helping to find a cure. It’s clear the failure of that mission took a piece of her optimism and growing up in a post-apocalyptic world while still dealing with the torturous pressures of being a teenager hasn’t helped.
We see her coming out story and her anguish over telling Joel about her first girlfriend. This narrative piece is especially beautiful, and I was glad to see Ellie’s feelings explored with the same sincerity as a heterosexual relationship.
Naughty Dog Her relationship with Joel deepens, too, as they create a new life after the events of the first game. There’s a flashback to one of her birthdays, and the time they spend bonding is a potent reminder that family isn’t just made up of blood relatives.
Still, Ellie is older. She has questions, and she already wasn’t one to shy away from questioning authority. And after her and Joel’s failed vaccine quest, seeing people turn from a bite becomes more difficult.
At times, Ellie is unrecognizable, even to herself.
The event that sets Ellie off to seek revenge takes even more from her.
At times, our protagonist is unrecognizable, even to herself. Watching her journey — actively taking part but unable to change course — is painful. The writing makes The Last of Us Part II one of the greatest gaming experiences I’ve ever had. It reminds me of the games that my mom, who really did not understand my fascination with video games, would look over my shoulder to watch. The ones that got her to stop asking, “Aren’t you tired of playing that?” and instead sit down next to me. That got her to comment to my stepdad quietly, “It’s like a movie.” Much like the first The Last of Us, the narrative will remind players why they love to play and birth a new generation of gamers.
While Ellie is the star, the story does extend beyond her. I was swept up in the lives of characters I would never meet, some dead, some still out there somewhere. You’ll find documents and mementos, much like in the last game. But this time, the game does a better job of creating stories that can last the span of the game. One document in an early area connects to one in a later level. A person mentioned in one note is the writer of another. And in the times when I came across an unseen character’s final note near their body, or worse, in a room with an infected, I was heartbroken.
It’s been teased that Part II is darker, but I wasn’t prepared.
Again, this goes beyond Ellie. The world is at war with itself. Differing factions suffer on both sides following the dissipation of a truce, one that neither party takes blame for. There’s also the profound, moral question of which side is the right side. People previously aligned with the government-sanctioned FEDRA, the counter-movement of the Fireflies, or opted to answer only for themselves. But this isn’t just about survival. It’s about what society looks like as the remains of human civilization try desperately to hang on.
When you kill a human enemy, their friends will cry out for them. They each have names. Their allies will be devastated to come across their dead body, and not because it means they themselves are in danger. It’s a heartwrenching, but realistic, detail, and it makes the game shine while leaving you with a pit in your stomach.
Gameplay Expanding the game to include so many elements means opening up the map. Although not truly an open-world game, some levels are large and complex, and exploring them is absolutely worth your time.
When it comes to game mechanics, it doesn’t fix what isn’t broken.
I was delighted to come across Easter eggs, unravel a story through notes left behind and clues, or find an especially handy equipment pickup by going out of my way.
There are also small moments that trigger cutscenes, and appear entirely optional. Some bits were just cute, but others added a deep emotional layer. I highly suggest checking everything out, and I’ll likely set out on another completionist run myself.
Naughty Dog Still, The Last of Us Part II is a linear game, and gating — where you’re prevented from going back to a previous area — removes any illusion this could be a true sandbox title.
When it comes to game mechanics, it doesn’t fix what isn’t broken. It operates much like the first game but fine-tunes combat. Stealth gets smarter, there are new enemies, and there are ability trees you can invest resources into depending on your preferred fighting style. I found it easy to jump back in and appreciated the new elements.
Visuals and details The visuals of The Last of Us Part II are, quite simply, magnificent. The detail of the environment and objects are absolutely phenomenal. I played on a base PlayStation 4 with HDR on, and I was floored that I wasn’t playing in 4K.
 It really looks that good. Textures look exceptionally detailed, and landscapes look incredible. This is particularly important given the amount of time spent outside.
The character detailing might be even more impressive. There’s a small part where Ellie looks in the mirror making different faces, and it’s not a cutscene. The animations look so good, it feels like the developers are showing off.
It would, of course, be remiss not to mention the crunch that went into this game.
 Naughty Dog has received criticism over its practice of making its team put in grueling hours to complete this and other games. It’s an absolute shame that anyone would work under those conditions, and they are the unsung heroes that made this game as good as it is.
They’ve included so many intricacies to be explored. The options menu allows you to individually customize the difficulty of things like enemy health or the number of resources you’ll find.
More importantly, players can change the controls to make it more accessible in a variety of ways. Visually, changes can be made to make subtitles easier to read or to see important details. There’s also a text-to-speech option and motion sickness settings. Players can even change how to play the guitar or operate a boat. These options are also made apparent with on-screen notifications, and other accessibility options are made known at the start. It’s a great move that I hope to see in more titles.
All these details make The Last of Us Part II an incredibly powerful game.
Our take The Last of Part II is a tour de force that takes the best parts of the original and molds them into their finest forms. The story will leave you reeling, and there are several unexpected turns that will keep you invested throughout. The level of detail and quality in the world creation and story building are at the top of their class.
Is there a better alternative? There isn’t anything quite like The Last of Us Part II , let alone a better alternative. The gameplay and combat aren’t unique, but the story that takes place around those elements is singular. It’s also why people bought into the first game so heavily.
How long will it last? The campaign takes anywhere from 30 to 40 hours, easily reaching the latter if you’re keen on exploring and finding everything available. If you just want to get through the story, 30 hours is closer to accurate, but even narrative-driven players will benefit from some extra exploration.
Should you but it? Yes, absolutely.
The Last of Us Part II will go down as a classic game that people talk about for years to come, not unlike the first iteration. The fact that this title expands so much on what worked well makes it that much easier to justify adding it to your library.
Editors' Recommendations Naughty Dog confirms The Last of Us Part II Remastered following leak Sony’s cloud handheld, the PlayStation Portal, will only stream certain games The Last of Us finale makes a subtle change from the game to set up season 2 New art for The Last of Us multiplayer spinoff teases its seaside setting The Last of Us Part 1: best skill upgrades Action Games Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming Everything is scarce in The Last of Us Part 1. You will constantly be running low on supplies, ammo, health, and maybe even hope. This game functions a lot like survival horror games, in which managing your inventory is just as important as being able to land that critical headshot. Your arsenal, in terms of firearms, is not terribly large, but you do have the ability to upgrade each weapon in a number of ways to help you make the most of every precious bullet you find.
Weapon upgrades, just like skill upgrades, are not free -- they both cost a limited resource. However, weapon upgrades also have an extra layer of restriction in that you can't simply stop and upgrade a weapon whenever you feel like it. When you are able to upgrade, you also have to consider which gun you want to invest in, how you want to invest in it, or if you want to save up for a future weapon or a more expensive upgrade later. It's a delicate balance, but we've picked the best weapon upgrades to help you survive your journey in The Last of Us Part 1.
How to upgrade weapons Gaming Joel has managed to survive for over 25 years in the Clicker invested world, but even he can learn a few new tricks. He's already adept with any gun you can get your hands on and can slap together basic materials to make some useful tools, but just about everything you have access to can be made better with the right training. Unfortunately, it's a little late for Joel and Ellie to enroll in a survival course, so reading up is the next best option.
The Last of Us Part 1 has 12 hidden Training Manuals you can collect that all improve one of your tools in a meaningful way. Some of these are so powerful that you'll wonder how you managed without them, and yet some are so well hidden that you can go through the game multiple times without finding them all. If you want to become an expert Boy Scout, turn on your Listen Mode and pay close attention to our guide on finding all the Training Manuals in The Last of Us Part 1.
Training Manual 1 -- Shiv: Sharpening Your first Training Manual to grab is in Bill's Town. You will have a hard time missing it, but after you escape from Bill's leg snare trap and follow him into the bar, one of the many objects to pick up is the training manual right on the bar itself.
Gaming Survival in The Last of Us Part 1 will come down to equal parts stealth, skill, and resource management. As Joel and Ellie go farther and farther west, the challenges they face will only become more daunting, asking more from the player in terms of all of these attributes. Aside from upgrading Joel himself with a few skills, the main way you will keep up with the harsher conditions of the game is through upgrading your weapons. However, you will realize very early on that many upgrades are locked.
The only way to fully upgrade your arsenal is by finding five toolboxes. These simple tools all unlock a new level of upgrades for your weapons, but just like anything else in The Last of Us Part 1, they're very easy to overlook as you're sneaking through an area or just admiring the amazing environments. Since there's no backtracking in this game, missing one means you won't be able to max out any upgrades on your first playthrough, so make a note of all the toolbox locations in The Last of Us Part 1 listed here.
First tool location The first toolbox won't come until you make it to Chapter 4 of the game, called Bill's Town. After navigating his traps (or at least most of them), you will meet up with Bill and eventually make your way to his home base of sorts in an abandoned church. Here, he will show you how to make the very useful Nail Bomb item, but don't leave the area to test it out just yet. Before you leave the basement, check the back corner for a shelf with the red toolbox sitting on it.
Second tool location Very early in Chapter 5, Pittsburgh, you will be attacked by a group of survivors. After taking them out, you will need to lift up a garage door to progress. Once inside, look to the shelves immediately to your left for the toolbox.
Third tool location Moving on to Chapter 6 now, follow the main path through the sewers until you get to the point where Ellie repairs a generator and Henry pulls you out of the water. Follow the tunnel forward, but watch for a side path on your left side. Take the path to a small room with the toolbox lying on the ground.
Fourth tool location Back in school during Chapter 8, The University, go all the way into the science building but don't go up to the second floor quite yet. At the end of the hall, just past a vending machine, is a locked door you will need a shiv to pry open. Use one, get inside, and the toolbox will be sitting front and center on one of the lab tables.
Fifth tool location Our final toolbox is waiting in Chapter 10. After an awkward start, eventually, you will come to the infamous giraffe scene and then trigger a cutscene. After it ends, you will be in the abandoned FEMA camp. Look for the open tent nearest the bus station and go inside. Directly to the right of the entrance is a table with the final toolbox sitting on top.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
