Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Now that The Last of Us is over, you should watch these TV shows and movies By Anthony Orlando Close It had to end sometime. Season 1 and episode 9 of The Last of Us just finished, and a lot of people are probably bummed they can’t get more postapocalyptic drama. Starring Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey, the show chronicles a lonely man who guides a traumatized teenage girl across an unrecognizable America in the hopes of finding a cure for a fungal virus that has turned most of the world’s population into flesh-eating zombies.
A Quiet Place The Walking Dead 28 Days Later Logan Children of Men With an impressive 96% on Rotten Tomatoes and a steadily increasing viewership week after week, The Last of Us has already become the greatest video game adaptation ever made and now ranks among some of HBO’s biggest shows. In case anyone is anxious to see more of the series, here are some shows/films similar to The Last of Us that will make the wait for season 2 easier.
A Quiet Place Image used with permission by copyright holder A Quiet Place follows a family struggling to survive after a race of blind aliens with super-sensitive hearing wipes out almost all of humankind. John Krasinski and Emily Blunt’s characters are very similar to Joel’s in that they fight to protect their respective families in this dangerous, new world however they can.
The film holds nothing back in its post-apocalyptic world, as the story begins with the family’s four-year-old getting killed by one of the aliens. But like The Last of Us , there is also a strong sense of melancholy in seeing civilization as it is left to ruins by the film’s antagonists. The sequel this movie spawned only expands on this sense of danger and tragedy, and it shows the first day of the alien invasion similarly to how The Last of Us depicts the beginning of the zombie outbreak.
A Quiet Place is streaming on Paramount+.
The Walking Dead Image used with permission by copyright holder The Walking Dead has recently ended its 11-season run on cable television, and The Last of Us seems to have taken its place as TV’s next big zombie franchise. Both shows are character-driven stories about a group of regular people dead-set on surviving in a world littered with the undead and other hostile humans.
While The Walking Dead centers around an entire community of survivors, it shares The Last of Us’s focus on families of choice and how morality changes in a post-apocalyptic world. For those anxious to see an entire saga featuring the zombie apocalypse, now’s as good a time as any to explore the world of The Walking Dead.
All 11 seasons of The Walking Dead are streaming on AMC+.
28 Days Later Image used with permission by copyright holder After a young man wakes up from a month-long coma, he finds himself fighting to survive after a virus ravages Great Britain and turns people into zombies. Danny Boyle and Alex Garland’s film helped bring sprinting zombies into mainstream media , and its impact can be seen in the Infected presented in The Last of Us.
Both stories explore the lengths to which humanity will go in order to survive, with the film depicting a team of soldiers practicing sexual slavery in a desperate attempt to repopulate the Earth. As a result, they each present the dark side of humanity and how they can be no different than the ravenous zombies that destroyed their world, all while questioning the purpose of living without a purpose and presenting people’s desire for meaning.
Logan Image used with permission by copyright holder This film shows the Wolverine embarking on an adventure to Joel’s, as the aging X-Man travels across the country to bring young Laura to a safe haven for mutants while developing a paternal relationship with her. And like Joel, Logan also struggles to live with his traumatic past and repeatedly pushes people away to avoid seeing them, and therefore himself, get hurt.
Furthermore, there is a lingering bleakness similar to The Last of Us , since almost all mutants have been mysteriously wiped out, Logan nears the end of his life, and nearly everyone he’s come to know and love has died. This film plays less like a superhero movie and more like a somber Western that serves as a perfect sendoff to one of cinema’s most beloved and most tragic antiheroes.
Logan is currently streaming on Disney+.
Children of Men Universal Pictures Alfonso Cuarón’s dystopian masterpiece takes place in a near future where humanity has been rendered infertile. At the same time, war and poverty have ravaged most of the world, and the U.K. exists as an oppressive and xenophobic police state. Just as Joel travels with Ellie to try and save humanity, Clive Owen’s Theo must help bring a pregnant refugee to safety so as to prevent human extinction.
Like this film, The Last of Us also displays a government leading the last of humanity under strict martial law and a radical militant force seeking to overthrow them. But the warring parties in both stories aren’t black and white, as they all act against the heroes in one way or another. All in all, Children of Men explores how humanity behaves when there doesn’t seem to be any purpose or future for their existence.
Children of Men is streaming on Amazon Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations These 5 TV shows could be the next The Last of Us The 7 most shocking moments from HBO’s The Last of Us Why The Last of Us is better as a TV show than a video game The 5 best zombie movies ever, ranked HBO’s The Last of Us trailer gives a first look at its game-accurate world Gaming Action Games Features HBO Max Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
