Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is discounted right now By Jennifer Allen Close day Grabbed one of the Nintendo Switch deals going on right now and want to add the best game for the system? Walmart has The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom on sale for only $48 so you save a massive $22 off the regular price of $70. Nintendo games don’t always see deep discounts so this is the perfect time to snap up one of the games of the year for less. Here’s what you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom offers near limitless levels of creativity, with enormous new locations to explore, powerful creative tools, and a truly engrossing storyline. Easily one of the best single-player Nintendo Switch games around, it has you exploring the sprawling landscapes of Hyrule along with the mysterious islands that are floating above you.
It offers hundreds of hours of exploration if you so wish with so many puzzles allowing you to figure things out for yourself in a multitude of ways. That means in some way, you have a unique experience compared to your friends and it’s great to discuss how you figured something out. Ever wanted to solve a puzzle by creating a makeshift airship? Seriously, that’s possible here, or you can just stick to simpler solutions too.
If you’ve previously played The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild , you’ll truly love how the format has evolved. This gamer now has puzzle kingdoms that feel a bit more traditional Zelda, while a new companion system gives Link permanent powers that are reminiscent of older games. If you haven’t played Breath of the Wild but you love Zelda games, you’ll adore seeing how things have changed yet also feel familiar. And if you’ve never played a Zelda game before, you’re in for a huge treat as gaming doesn’t get much better than Tears of the Kingdom.
 It’s easily one of the best Nintendo Switch games.
Usually priced at $70, you can now buy The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom for $48 from Walmart. A saving of $22, this is a great chance to buy one of the best games around. For hundreds of hours of entertainment, $48 is a steal. Check it out now by tapping the buy button below.
Editors' Recommendations This is hands-down the best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deal The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more This PS5 bundle just got a price cut for the holidays This Samsung 43-inch 4K gaming monitor is 50% off right now Deals Nintendo Nintendo Switch Computing If you're on the hunt for gaming laptop deals, here's one that comes with our recommendation -- the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 for just $1,100 from Best Buy, for savings of $330 on its original price of $1,430. We expect this bargain to sell quickly because this is one of the top gaming laptops in the market right now, so if you're interested, there's no time to waste. Proceed with the purchase right now, because the more you delay, the higher the chances that you'll miss out on this discount.
Why you should buy the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 gaming laptop The Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 is in our roundup of the best gaming laptops as the best portable gaming laptop that you can buy. It features a 14-inch screen that's slightly smaller than the display of most of its peers, but it more than makes up for the size with QHD resolution and a 165Hz refresh rate. This also allows the device to stay small, with thickness of just 0.73 of an inch and weight of only 3.64 pounds. If you want your gaming laptop with you at all times so you can squeeze in some gaming whenever the situation allows, the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 will be perfect for you.
Gaming The Nintendo Switch OLED - The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Edition, a special version of the hybrid console, is currently available from Walmart for $319 after a $41 discount on its original price of $360. It's the perfect choice for Nintendo Switch owners who haven't upgraded to the OLED model, as its design is inspired by what is already one of the best Nintendo Switch games just a few months after its release. This flash sale is one of the most attractive gaming deals in the market right now, so we don't expect it to last long -- buy it immediately to enjoy the savings.
Why you should buy the Nintendo Switch OLED - The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Edition The Nintendo Switch OLED is an upgraded version of the Nintendo Switch featuring a 7-inch OLED touchscreen that's more colorful, brighter, and larger than the original's 6.2-inch LCD touchscreen. However, our Nintendo Switch OLED versus Nintendo Switch comparison reveals other improvements with the latest model, including a built-in LAN port in its dock, a wider and sturdier kickstand at the back, and double the onboard storage at 64GB.
Computing If you're a veteran PC gamer, you know about Razer. You've likely used a Razer mouse, gaming chair or headset at one point in your life. Well Razer doesn't stop at just accessories. They make really powerful gaming laptops and PCs as well. If you're shopping for a new rig, make sure you check out deals straight from the manufacturer. For instance, this Razer Blade 17 is currently $1,200 off.
We're not sure how long this Razer Blade 17 deal will last, so you should grab it soon. It's a powerful and sleek gaming laptop that's on sale for $2,000 from its usual $3,200. It has some powerful internal components, like the RTX 3070 Ti graphics card, and it's wrapped up in Razer's timeless black and green case. Read more about the specs below, but don't wait too long to check it out yourself.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
