Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides All secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder By Billy Givens Close Much of your time in Super Mario Bros. Wonder ‘s colorful and vibrant levels is spent collecting Flower Coins and finding fun power-ups that can help you take out enemies, but there are some well-hidden secrets to discover, too. Most notably, you’ll want to keep an eye out for secret exits that can uncover some really exciting new stuff to enjoy.
Piranha Plants on Parade (World 1) Bulrush Coming Through! (World 1) Bulrush Express (World 1) Outmaway Valley (World 2) Secrets of Shova Mansion (World 4) Where the Rrrumbas Rule (World 6) Hot-Hot Hot! (World 6) There are a total of seven secret exits in Super Mario Bros. Wonder , and if you’re looking to find each and every one of them, look no further than our list below. Of course, you’ll want to play the levels through completely if you’re looking to find all badges and medals in the game.
Piranha Plants on Parade (World 1) Nintendo To reach the secret exit in Piranha Plants on Parade, continue through the level until you reach a segment where you see a rock with three pipes sticking out of it above you, each facing in a different direction. If you got the stage’s Wonder Flower, it’s located right above the Wonder Seed location when the auto-scrolling ends.
To your right will be three ascending pipes, so head up those and go to the colorful music blocks. Face to the left and use these blocks to bounce yourself up over the three pipes on the ceiling. In this new area is a red pipe that will transport you to a new location. Upon exiting the red pipe, run forward and enter a green pipe to be transported to the secret exit flag pole. Getting this exit will open up a green pipe that’ll take you to a familiar friend.
Bulrush Coming Through! (World 1) Nintendo To reach the secret exit in Bulrush Coming Through!, make your way through the level until you pass the checkpoint and pass a block above you that is shining and contains a Wonder Flower. Just past this is a Bulrush enemy charging up toward some blocks on the ground. Let him charge at you, then jump on his back and ride him until he breaks the block containing the Wonder Flower.
Once you’re in the midst of the Wonder Effect, ride the stampede. It’ll smash through the first flagpole and eventually drop you off at some clouds with a Wonder Seed. Grab that, then head to your right to find the (much taller) secret exit flag pole.
Bulrush Express (World 1) Nintendo To reach the secret exit in Bulrush Express, first make sure you bring along an Elephant Fruit that you can use at the end of the level. Ride the stampede through the level normally until you reach the Wonder Seed next to a red pipe leading up. Use your Elephant Fruit here, then blast through the blocks to your right and enter the yellow pipe here. Ride the lone Bulrush in this next area to reach the secret exit flag pole. You’ll get a third Wonder Seed for your efforts.
Outmaway Valley (World 2) Nintendo This is another secret exit that just requires you to complete the level’s Wonder effect. To reach the secret exit in Outmaway Valley, head through the level as normal until you reach a point with two yellow pipes in the background that have a big ice block just to the right of them. Ground pound the block to destroy it, then ground pound the shining spot on the ground directly after to unleash a Wonder Flower.
This will cause the ground beneath you to begin rolling forward for quite a while, eventually knocking over the standard flag pole. Eventually, you’ll be dropped off with a Wonder Seed, and just a bit past this point is where you’ll find the secret exit flag pole. Note that you’ll need to replay the level without getting the Wonder Seed to get the normal exit.
Secrets of Shova Mansion (World 4) Nintendo To reach the secret exit in Secrets of Shova Mansion, go through the level as usual and pass the checkpoint. Right after the room where you have to push some blocks around to create a door, you’ll be dropped into an area with a tall green block. Defeat the Shova here, then look to your right for a small pit with some brown blocks you can destroy with a ground pound. Do so, then push the green tall green block into that pit. This will spawn a yellow pipe that you can enter to be transported to a new section. Here, run to the right and enter another yellow pipe to be transported to the secret exit flag pole.
Where the Rrrumbas Rule (World 6) Nintendo To reach the secret exit in Rrrumbas Rule, push through the level while ensuring that you have access to a Drill power-up. You’ll eventually come to a spot with a very tall rock and a whole lot of gray blocks to the right of it. Drill into the ceiling here and pass over the tall rock, then while remaining in the ceiling, continue through the tiny path to your right. On the other side, push over the rock here to create a domino effect and destroy the gray blocks, granting you access to the green pipe. Take the pipe up into a new area of the level featuring the secret exit flag pole.
This exit will unlock a new path in Deep Magma Bog, which takes you to the Spin Jump II Badge Challenge.
Hot-Hot Hot! (World 6) Nintendo This one is a bit of a platforming gauntlet, so you may want to equip the floating jump badge for this. To reach the secret exit in Hot-Hot Hot!, head through the level until you pass the checkpoint. You’ll enter a stretch where the entire ground is made up of heated blocks. Keep walking until you reach a vertical tower that you can climb to the top of by jumping on heated blocks (the block path on the right side is the easiest way to get up).
When the two heated blocks on the left of the tower’s top are cool, run across them and jump at the last second to reach another platform surrounded by heated blocks in the sky to your left. Jump to two more stone platforms until you reach clouds. Touch the flower and it’ll spawn a string of coins to your left leading to another flower. Jump into that flower and it’ll spawn a little purple spark that you can follow back to the left until it finally transforms into a door. This takes you to a visually neat secret area where you simply make your way to the right to find the secret exit flag pole. Get this exit and you’ll unlock another alternate path in Deep Magma Bog’s overworld map.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder Wonder no more: the new voice of Mario has revealed himself Super Mario RPG: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming It was a good morning for both Mario and RPG fans. Today's Nintendo Direct not only showed more of the new Super Mario RPG remake, but also unveiled a new port of Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door that's coming next year to the Nintendo Switch.
Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door - Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 Gaming Mario vs. Donkey Kong was announced during today's Nintendo Direct. Launching on February 16, this new title is the first entry in the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series to hit the Nintendo Switch and the latest in the series since its last entry in 2016.
Mario vs. Donkey Kong - Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 Gaming The third Nintendo Direct of the year just aired, and it established clear expectations for what players should expect as we head into what may be the final year of the Switch's life as Nintendo's main platform. Remakes of games like Mario vs. Donkey Kong and Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door were confirmed, the Princess Peach game finally got a full title, and some dormant retro series like Contra and F-Zero are getting brand new games.
As this was a packed 40-minute gaming showcase full of surprising reveals, it might have been hard for you to keep track of everything shown off. There's no need to worry about that, though, as we've rounded up every announcement that's made during the September 14 Nintendo Direct.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
