Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides Everything you need to know about Nintendo Switch Online By Jacob Roach and Joseph Yaden Close The Nintendo Switch officially made the jump online shortly after the Switch launched, and fans have flocked to the service to compete with friends and foes alike. The aptly titled Nintendo Switch Online is comparable to PlayStation Plus and Xbox Live in that its primary function is to grant access to online multiplayer. A subscription to the service, however, also nets you a library of select NES and SNES, N64, and Sega Genesis games. That said, Nintendo isn’t looking to fully replicate its competitors when it comes to the Switch’s online service, which is par for the course.
Individual/family subscription models Nintendo Switch Online is (mostly) required for online multiplayer You need to use the Nintendo Switch Online smartphone app to chat Adds the ability to save to the cloud Subscribers get access to classic NES and SNES games N64 and Sega Genesis games for Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack members DLC at no additional cost for Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack members Exclusive games Exclusive NES and SNES wireless controllers N64 and Sega Genesis controllers Member-only offers Here’s everything you need to know about Nintendo Switch Online.
Further reading Best Nintendo Switch games Best Nintendo Switch controllers Best Nintendo Switch cases Individual/family subscription models Image used with permission by copyright holder The standard Nintendo Switch Online comes in two subscription types: Individual and family. An individual subscription covers one user, and a family subscription covers up to eight. A one-year individual subscription costs $20. One-month and three-month subscriptions are also available for $4 and $8, respectively. It’s obviously most cost-efficient to purchase a year out of the gate if you plan on using the service semi-regularly.
The best Switch controllers for 2023 Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Family subscriptions, meanwhile, cost $35 per year. To take advantage of this bulk subscription, you need to be linked to a family group. You can create a family group on the Nintendo Account website. Essentially, you and seven friends can get access to all Nintendo Switch Online features for less than $5 a piece.
Both subscription types are available for purchase on the Nintendo Switch eShop. Nintendo Switch Online is accessible via the orange navigational menu when you first open the storefront. Keep in mind that subscriptions automatically renew unless you opt out in the eShop menu.
Prepaid scratch-off cards can also be purchased at participating retailers for one-year Nintendo Switch Online memberships, as well.
Nintendo Switch Online is (mostly) required for online multiplayer Image used with permission by copyright holder Before Switch Online launched, Nintendo offered free online multiplayer for games like Splatoon 2 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.
 Now, you have to have a subscription to use the online features of first-party Nintendo games and most third-party games. The one major exception is Fortnite , which can be played online without a subscription. Other free-to-play games like Rocket League can be played without a paid Switch membership.
Nintendo Online is only needed for multiplayer over the internet, however. Those without a subscription can still use the Switch’s Local Wireless Play feature between two Switch consoles, with up to three players on each console.
You need to use the Nintendo Switch Online smartphone app to chat If you want to talk to your friends while playing online games, you need the Nintendo Switch Online mobile app, which is available for both iOS and Android. Yes, it’s annoying to have to use two devices to take part in a traditional online multiplayer experience, but we don’t make the rules.
Fortnite , again, is the exception to this rule, as it allows voice chat on the console itself. Since this is a cumbersome solution, we recommend using Discord or a different communication app that you probably have already.
Adds the ability to save to the cloud Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the biggest knocks on the Switch since launch was that there was no method for backing up your saves. If your console died, well, you were out of luck. With a Nintendo Switch Online subscription, you can back up your saves to the cloud, ensuring that you won’t lose progress even if your console breaks.
Cloud saves work with most Switch games , but there are a few outliers. For instance, Animal Crossing: New Horizons , Pokémon Let’s Go , Splatoon 2 , Dark Souls Remastered , and Dead Cells do not support cloud saves. Nintendo has said that this is to maintain competitive balance in games like Let’s Go and Splatoon 2.
 Nintendo doesn’t want cloud saves to disrupt competitive rankings. In a game like Dark Souls , in which it autosaves pretty much after you do anything, reverting to a previous save from the cloud could potentially undermine the developer’s design.
Cloud saves can disappear after your subscription lapses As a feature exclusive for Switch Online subscribers, it makes sense that cloud saves won’t last forever if you cancel your subscription. Once your subscription lapses, you won’t be able to access your cloud saves. After six months, they’ll be deleted entirely.
Subscribers get access to classic NES and SNES games Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the major perks of the Switch Online program is the library of free classic games. For the first year of the service, Nintendo gave subscribers a steadily growing list of NES games.
 Nintendo sweetened the pot at the start of year two, adding SNES games to the program.
The games included save states, too, as well as multiple display settings (4:3, Pixel Perfect, and CRT Filter). Some of these games even have multiplayer, both local and online.
Though by default you can only play these games with an internet connection, you can download them to play offline for up to seven days at a time. If your subscription lapses, you’ll lose access to these games, just like you would with PlayStation Plus and Games with Gold offerings.
Here’s the current list of SNES games included with Nintendo Switch Online. Keep in mind that Nintendo plans to add more SNES games to the program in the future, but there is no set schedule for new additions to the SNES library.
Bombuzal Joe & Mac 2: Lost in the Tropics Star Fox Brawl Brothers Kirby Super Star Star Fox 2 Breath of Fire Kirby’s Dream Course Stunt Race FX Breath of Fire II Kirby’s Dream Land 3 Sugoi Hebereke Claymates Kunio-kun no Dodgeball da yo Zen’in Shūgō Super Baseball Simulator 1.000 Demon’s Crest The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past Super Ghouls ‘n Ghosts Donkey Kong Country Magical Drop Super Mario All-Stars Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy’s Kong Quest Mario’s Super Picross Super Mario Kart Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong’s Double Trouble! Natsume Championship Wrestling Super Mario World Doomsday Warrior Operation Logic Bomb Super Punch-Out!! Earth Defense Force The Peace Keepers Super Metroid EarthBound Pilotwings Super Punch-Out!! Earthworm Jim 2 Pop’n TwinBee Super Soccer F-ZERO Prehistorik Man Super Tennis Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War Psycho Dream Tetris Attack Fire Emblem: Mystery of the Emblem Puyo Puyo 2 Tuff E Nuff Harvest Moon Shin Megami Tensei Valis IV The Ignition Factor Shin Megami Tensei II Wild Guns Jelly Boy Shin Megami Tensei If… Yoshi’s Island Joe & Mac Spanky’s Quest Here’s the list of NES games. Nintendo added multiple NES games per month during the first year of service. Now that SNES games have arrived, however, the monthly updates are no more. We have received new SNES games periodically, but not on a month-to-month basis.
Adventures of Lolo Double Dragon II: The Revenge Kirby’s Adventure Pro Wrestling Super Mario Bros. 3 Adventures of Lolo 2 Dr. Mario Konami’s Ping Pong Punch-Out!! Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels Atlantis no Nazo Eliminator Boat Duel Kung Fu Heroes River City Ransom Tecmo Bowl Balloon Fight Excitebike Kunio-kun Rygar Tennis Baseball Famicom Wars The Legend of Zelda S.C.A.T.: Special Cybernetic Attack Team TwinBee Blaster Master Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon and the Blade of Light Mappy-Land Shadow of the Ninja Vice: Project Doom City Connection Ghosts ‘n Goblins Mario Bros.
Soccer Volleyball Clu Clu Land Gradius Metroid Solomon’s Key Wario’s Woods Crystalis Ice Climber Mighty Bomb Jack Solomon’s Key 2 Wrecking Crew Dig Dug II Ice Hockey Mother Star Soldier Yie Ar Kung-Fu Donkey Kong The Immortal NES Open Tournament Golf StarTropics Yoshi Donkey Kong 3 Journey to Silius Nightshade Super Dodge Ball Zelda II: The Adventure of Link Donkey Kong Jr.
Joy Mech Fight Ninja Gaiden Super Mario Bros.
Double Dragon Kid Icarus Ninja JaJaMaru-kun Super Mario Bros. 2 N64 and Sega Genesis games for Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack members Image used with permission by copyright holder During the September 2021 Nintendo Direct , a long-awaited announcement was made. Nintendo revealed the Expansion Pack for the online subscription service featuring N64 and Sega Genesis games.
Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack is available for $50 per year ($30 more than the standard membership). This serves as an enhanced version of the subscription service, offering more benefits.
Below are the new N64 and Sega Genesis games as of April 2022: N64 Dr. Mario 64 Banjo-Kazooie F-Zero Zero X Mario Golf Mario Kart 64 Mario Tennis Paper Mario Sin and Punishment Star Fox 64 Super Mario 64 The Legend of Zelda: Majora’s Mask The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time WinBack: Covert Operations Yoshi’s Story Sega Genesis Alien Soldier Altered Beast Castlevania: Bloodlines Contra: Hard Corps Dr. Robotnik’s Mean Bean Machine Dynamite Headdy Ecco the Dolphin Golden Axe Gunstar Heroes Light Crusader M.U.S.H.A.
Phantasy Star 4: The End of the Millennium Ristar Shining Force Shining Force II Shinobi 3 Sonic Spinball Sonic the Hedgehog 2 Space Harrier II Streets of Rage 2 Strider Super Fantasy Zone Sword of Vermilion Thunder Force II ToeJam & Earl Games like Pokémon Snap and Kirby 64: The Crystal Shards are planned to launch on the service later on.
DLC at no additional cost for Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack members Image used with permission by copyright holder Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack members also gain access to certain first-party DLC packs at no additional cost. The full list is as follows: Mario Kart 8 Deluxe Booster Pass Animal Crossing: New Horizons — Happy Home Paradise DLC Splatoon 2 — Octo Expansion DLC Keep in mind, you’ll have access to these packs so long as you remain a Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack member. If your membership expires, you’ll no longer be able to access these expansions.
Exclusive games Image used with permission by copyright holder Nintendo Switch Online subscribers gain access to exclusive games that release periodically. One of the most popular is Tetris 99 , a battle royale game that requires you to outlast 98 other opponents. Likewise, Pac-Man 99 is of the same vein. Collect pellets, consume ghosts, and dish out attacks to the other players. Another noteworthy inclusion was Super Mario Bros. 35.
 We say “was” because it has since been removed from the service, and was only present in celebration of Mario’s 35th anniversary. This, too, was a battle royale, in which players aimed to survive against 34 opponents while making their way through various Super Mario Bros.
levels.
Exclusive NES and SNES wireless controllers Image used with permission by copyright holder You can also get retro NES and SNES controllers if you’re a Nintendo Switch Online subscription-holder. These devices connect to the Switch and feel more like traditional, old-school controllers, rather than something like a Joy-Con. These are great for players looking to immerse themselves with older games, with controllers to match! The NES controller pack is $50, while the SNES controller is $30.
N64 and Sega Genesis controllers Image used with permission by copyright holder Finally, Nintendo also announced N64 and Sega Genesis controllers for Switch. These, much like the NES and SNES controllers before, are only available for Switch Online members. They will both work wirelessly with the Switch and will cost $50 each. It’s unclear when these will launch, but it will likely be around the same time the Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack comes out.
Member-only offers Image used with permission by copyright holder Member-exclusive promotions for Switch Online include a lot of perks beyond the retro controllers. If you’re a subscriber, you can get a free Tetris 99 download (and if you’re a hardcore Tetris fan, this alone makes it worth the cost), a free Nook Inc. silk rug in Animal Crossing, and Splatoon 2 gear. Additionally, the company will regularly roll out new perks, so members should check for new benefits.
Editors' Recommendations Where to find planes in Fortnite OG One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month The best Switch games for 2023 When does Hogwarts Legacy come out on Nintendo Switch? These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Sony consoles have always gotten multiple versions and editions ever since the original PlayStation 1. As technology becomes cheaper and more advanced, refreshed models that are both smaller and less expensive to produce typically come out a couple of years into a console's life cycle, and we have now hit that point for the PS5. The PS5 slim, as it is being referred to, is a smaller version of the launch models, and will eventually become the standard unit available to consumers once the stock of existing PS5s runs out. However, is this version worth getting if you're an existing owner, or is it only for new purchasers? There's also the question about which of the two versions to buy. To answer all these questions, let's compare the PS5 slim to the OG PS5.
Specs Let's start with the most important part, which is whether or not there's more power under the hood of the PS5 slim compared to the launch models. No, the PS5 slim is not in any way more powerful than an existing PS5. This is not a PS5 Pro, which is currently just a rumor. Games will not look, run, or play any better or worse on either version. The only difference in terms of specs is that the slim versions have slightly more storage space at 1 TB compared to 825GB, which is just a small 175GB upgrade. There's nothing here that makes it worth buying a new system when you can expand the storage of your console yourself.
Size Obviously, a slim model would mean that this new version would be smaller than the frankly comically large launch version. While that's true, it isn't a huge reduction in size. The PS5 Slim disc version weighs 3.2 kilograms (18% less that the original PS5) while the discless version weighs 2.6kg (24% less), and both are 30% smaller by volume.
Versions Once again, you will have the option to choose between an all-digital and standard version of the PS5 Slim. However, unlike the original discless PS5, the new version will give you the option to add a disc drive later on if you purchase a separate detachable drive.
Price The current PS5 models are priced at $400 and $500 for the digital and standard versions, respectively. While the PS5 slim standard version that includes the disc drive will remain at $500, the discless version will get a price increase to $450. This price increase had already been seen in other territories outside the U.S., but will now be introduced here once these new versions launch. It is also worth mentioning that the detachable disc drive you can get to upgrade your discless version will cost $80, meaning you would spend more to buy the digital version and add the drive than you would by simply buying the version with the drive already included.
Gaming Nintendo confirmed it will widely shut down online services for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U games in April 2024, which will be just over a year after it discontinued the Nintendo eShop on those systems.
This deactivation of most of the online services for those platforms was revealed on X (formerly Twitter) and Nintendo's support site early Wednesday. "In early April 2024, online play and other functionality that uses online communication will end for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U software. This also includes online co-operative play, internet rankings, and data distribution," the message says. "We will announce a specific end date and time at a later date. Please note that if an event occurs that would make it difficult to continue online services for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U software, we may have to discontinue services earlier than planned. We sincerely thank players for using the online services of Nintendo 3DS and Wii U software over a long period of time and apologize for any inconvenience." Essentially, this means that after April 2024, you won't be able to use any online features in things like 3DS Pokémon games or Super Smash Bros. for 3DS and Wii U anymore. Nintendo does say in the Q&A section of its support article that people will still be able to play games offline and redownload updates and games from the Nintendo eShop for the foreseeable future. Pokémon Bank will remain unaffected, so it'll still be possible to transfer Pokémon from Ruby and Sapphire all of the way to Pokémon Home. However, SpotPass support and other online-focused applications like Nintendo Badge Arcade will stop working entirely.
Just like the Wii U and 3DS eShop closure that caused a ruckus earlier this year, this move is a blow to game preservation and will forever harm some games not available anywhere else. While it's understandable that Nintendo might want to move on from these systems' dated online infrastructure, it's still a disappointing move for those of us who spent a lot of time playing games offline and online on these systems.
Gaming Each major gaming platform has its own subscription service, giving players added bonuses such as access to certain games and other perks for a monthly fee. Xbox has Game Pass, PlayStation has PlayStation Plus, and Nintendo Switch offers the Nintendo Switch Online program.
While Nintendo's service isn't on the same level as the other two across PlayStation and Xbox, it does give subscribers access to some of the best retro games of all time -- and even more if you have the Expansion Pack upgrade, which includes N64, Sega Genesis, and Game Boy Advance games, along with DLC packs for certain Switch titles. Included with the basic version of the Nintendo Switch Online subscription is the ability to play online, plus access to NES and SNES games.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
