Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides How to fix Joy-Con drift on Nintendo Switch By Jacob Roach Close Shortly after launch, Nintendo Switch owners started noticing a problem. Their thumbstick would start moving without any input. Known as Joy-Con drift, the design defect has plagued countless Switch systems and spurred multiple class-action lawsuits. That said, most players can fix the problem themselves. Here’s how to fix Joy-Con drift on the Nintendo Switch.
What is Joy-Con drift? How to fix Joy-Con drift How to get a Joy-Con drift replacement More Nintendo Switch Common Nintendo Switch problems, and how to fix them The best Nintendo Switch exclusives The best Nintendo Switch games What is Joy-Con drift? Image used with permission by copyright holder Joy-Con drift is an issue where your thumbstick will move without you touching it. The physical stick won’t move, but the Switch will pick up an input. Even the most minor drifting issues are unreasonably annoying, as you have to fight with your thumbstick to center your camera and move in the direction you want to go.
Although thumbstick drift isn’t a new problem, the Joy-Con issue is widespread. Three class-action lawsuits have been filed since 2019, and all of them are still wrapped up in the courts. The lawsuits show that steel brushes against carbon when you move the thumbstick back and forth, accelerating wear and tear and causing the thumbstick to drift.
One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month The best Switch games for 2023 When does Hogwarts Legacy come out on Nintendo Switch? Thankfully, you can fix Joy-Con drift with a few simple steps. If you’re still having problems after following the steps below, you can send your Joy-Con in for repair or submit your information to one of the lawsuits (you’ll have to order a replacement, then).
How to fix Joy-Con drift You don’t need to throw out your Joy-Con if it’s drifting. There are a few easy steps you can take to fix Joy-Con drift without any technical knowledge or screwdrivers. All you need is your Switch, the misbehaving Joy-Con, and the ability to poke around in your system settings.
Update your system software Image used with permission by copyright holder Before doing anything else, make sure your system and Joy-Con firmware are up to date. Starting with your system, select System Settings from the Switch home screen and scroll down to System.
There, select System Update.
Your Switch will automatically search for a new update, and it will ask you to download the update if there is one. Your Nintendo Switch should perform system updates automatically. If you’re behind, scroll down and turn Auto-Update Software to On to automatically update your software in the future.
Back out of the System menu and scroll up to Controllers and Sensors.
Scroll down a bit and select Update Controllers.
The Switch can only update controllers that are attached to the body, so make sure that your problematic Joy-Con is connected. Your Switch will detect both Joy-Cons and attempt to update them.
Although these two steps alone won’t fix all Joy-Con drift problems, it’s important to work with the latest software. Get this step out of the way first so you don’t have to second-guess later steps.
Calibrate the thumbstick Image used with permission by copyright holder If you have a minor drifting problem or the issue is intermittent, you can fix your Joy-Con by recalibrating it. From the home screen, select System Settings and scroll down to Controllers and Sensors.
There, select Calibrate Control Sticks.
Select the Joy-Con you want to calibrate on the next screen by pressing down the thumbstick. Your Switch will show your thumbstick inputs on the next screen. A green cross means you aren’t touching the controller, while a green circle means you are touching it. If you see a green circle or the marker is moving without you touching the thumbstick, your Joy-Con is drifting. Press X on your Switch to recalibrate it.
Recalibrating is easy. Follow the steps by moving your thumbstick to each side and moving it around in a circle a couple of times. After that, pop back into the menu to check your inputs. If you’re still having problems, move on to the next step.
Clean your Joy-Con A common cause of Joy-Con drift is a dirty thumbstick. Dust, crumbs, and other debris can get lodged under the thumbstick, adding more weight in a certain direction and causing a minor drift in that direction.
Detach your Joy-Con and grab a can of compressed air. Push the thumbstick up and slowly move it around in a circle, following behind with compressed air. Use the included straw to direct the air and point it away from the thumbstick to push debris out (not deeper in).
Next, grab a cotton swab and some isopropyl alcohol. Lightly dip the cotton swab into the alcohol (make sure it isn’t dripping). Push up the thumbstick and follow the same process for compressed air, following with the cotton swab on the bottom half of the thumbstick as you move. You need just a thin layer of isopropyl alcohol. After you’re done applying, rotate the thumbstick a few more times.
That’s it for cleaning. Although you can use a toothpick with full-size controllers to fetch out a large piece of debris, there isn’t enough room on the Joy-Con. You could damage your Joy-Con beyond repair, so we don’t recommend pushing things beyond the two cleaning steps above.
Replace the thumbstick If the three steps above didn’t work, we recommend ordering a new Joy-Con or sending yours in for a replacement (instructions on how to do that below). If you don’t mind living on the edge, you can try to replace the thumbstick yourself. Keep in mind that simply opening your Joy-Con will void your warranty and keep you from getting a free replacement in the future.
Joy-Cons use a generic thumbstick that you can get on Amazon. Many kits also come with a few special screwdrivers, which you’ll need to dismantle your Joy-Con. These kits come with step-by-step instructions, but we recommend keeping the Nintendo Switch teardown guide from iFixIt handy. We have a few tips if you want to attempt a do-it-yourself (DIY) repair, though.
First, be very careful with the screws on the back of your Joy-Con. Nintendo uses a special head type and soft metal, making it very easy to strip the screws. There are several small screws inside the Joy-Con that are easy to lose track of. Draw a basic diagram on a piece of paper and place the screws in the correct spot to make reassembly easier.
Our most important tip, though, is to not attempt a repair unless you’re comfortable losing your Joy-Con. Fragile ribbon cables connect all of the parts inside the Joy-Con, and it’s easy to damage these cables during a repair. It’s possible to replace the thumbstick in your Joy-Con, but it’s far from a basic repair.
How to get a Joy-Con drift replacement Photo by Matteo Grobberio on Unsplash Nintendo offers free Joy-Con repairs to customers. Fill out the online request form to start the support process. All you need is the number of Joy-Cons you’re sending in (limited to four based on battery regulations in the mail) and your Switch’s serial number. Nintendo will attempt to repair your Joy-Con, but if that isn’t possible, you’ll receive a replacement. Unfortunately, replacements are only offered in the Switch standard gray, neon blue, or neon red color schemes.
It could take several weeks for your repair to come back. If you’re anxious to keep playing, you can order a Joy-Con replacement. Nintendo offers Joy-Cons in sets (usually with unique color schemes) but also as individual units. You can pick up a left or right Joy-Con for around $40.
Editors' Recommendations The best Switch controllers for 2023 Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond The best games on Nintendo Switch Online Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is getting a surprise Switch release How-To Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Mario vs. Donkey Kong was announced during today's Nintendo Direct. Launching on February 16, this new title is the first entry in the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series to hit the Nintendo Switch and the latest in the series since its last entry in 2016.
Mario vs. Donkey Kong - Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 Gaming Nintendo will hold a full-fledged Nintendo Direct presentation this September, just as it has during this month for the past several years. Whether or not this would happen was in question because of the June Direct and August's Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct, but now that's no longer a debate. The next Nintendo Direct will take place on September 14 and give us insights on games coming to the Nintendo Switch throughout the rest of the year. It will air live, so we've outlined where and how people can watch the September 2023 Nintendo Direct, as well as what people should expect from it.
When is the September 2023 Nintendo Direct The September 2023 Nintendo Direct starts at 7 a.m. PT on September 14, so you may need to get up early in the morning for it. Nintendo also confirmed that the presentation will last about 40 minutes, so be prepared to tune in for some time.
How to watch the September 2023 Nintendo Direct Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 - Nintendo Switch Gaming Is your backlog of video games running low? Did you just grab a new PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X or Nintendo Switch and need to build up your library? Video game deals are the cheapest way to do it. Below we've pulled the best video game deals available for all three current generation consoles. These are all fantastic games, by the way. Everything listed below appears on our list of the best PS5 games, best Xbox Series X games, or best Nintendo Switch games. You'll find deals on some surprisingly popular titles, too.
Best PS5 game deals Diablo IV -- $63, was $70 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
