Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Switch Online’s N64 expansion won’t be complete without translucent controllers By Sam Hill Close When Nintendo announced that it was bringing classic Nintendo 64 games to Switch Online , I was ecstatic. Then it announced that the original controllers would return, too — and my joy soared even higher. Sure, I’ve tried to recreate boyhood Super Smash Bros.
bouts in the modern Super Smash Bros. Ultimate and begged my MacBook not to catch fire while attempting to emulate The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time , but neither experience was the same without that wonky, one-of-a-kind N64 controller.
I don’t have the words, then, to describe how disappointed I was when I raced to the Nintendo website, only to find the plain, boring, hand-it-to-your-younger-sibling original gray controller. Excuse me? Nintendo, which first brought translucent hardware to the table with the Game Boy over 20 years ago, is bringing our favorite bad console back into the spotlight with a controller that’s … just gray? In my opinion, that’s a waste.
Nintendo’s translucent N64 controllers were cool. I thought so when I was 7-years-old and I still think so today. Nintendo referred to these controllers as its Funtastic line, while I called mine “see-through” or, simply “the purple one.” This controller was king in our household — you had better call dibs if you wanted a chance to use it. Even years into service, it was our most-used controller — waning joystick, jammed buttons and all. This was a “player one” controller, never to be held by whoever was in last place in Mario Party or took too long deciding what move to make in Pokémon Stadium.
Nintendo Switch Online expands with Game Boy and Game Boy Advance Titles Nintendo Switch Online gets a fan favorite Nintendo 64 racing game Kirby 64 is Nintendo Switch Online’s next N64 addition In my eyes, if you weren’t playing with the atomic purple controller, what was the point? Image used with permission by copyright holder Wired staff writer Cecilia D’Anastasio beautifully described the lure of translucent hardware in a story earlier this year , which led with this description of the Game Boy Color, the first console to get the treatment in 1998: “Behind its translucent, lilac-tinted, plastic shell, the console’s guts were all laid out to see — button actuators, conductive membranes, a metal-dotted green daughterboard, a haze of multicolored wires. Holding that Game Boy Color was like holding an X-ray: An assemblage of straight and curved lines, phalanges, and vertebrae — not everything, but enough to make you consider the space between knowable and unknowable, touchable and forbidden. When the screen lit up with little surfing Pikachu, you could observe all the unfathomables powering him. The shell felt permeable, almost porous; it seemed like an invitation to interactivity.” I like to imagine that’s what I was trying to say as a child when I raced to snag this controller.
I only had purple, but we all know that this Nintendo line was pretty expansive, and included the colors jungle green, ice blue, grape purple, fire orange and a dark smoky black. It was undeniably awesome athat there was a color option for everyone.
Translucency may no longer be in style (apparently), but there are plenty of gamers chasing that look. Modders and amateurs diving into modding for the first time have been installing translucent cases on their Nintendo Switches for years. We still want to look inside our gaming gear! Not including color options for the throwback N64 controllers is a miss for Nintendo, especially if they drop before the holidays. I’ve got my fingers crossed that the Funtastic line will make a comeback down the road, whether it’s an announcement trailer followed by a nine-month wait or they just drop on a random Tuesday.
I’m still pumped for the release of N64 games on the Switch — running through Yoshi’s Story on a plane is going to be so fun — but I need that atomic purple to make this latest hit of Nintendo nostalgia absolutely perfect.
Editors' Recommendations How Zelda: Ocarina of Time speedrunners break the N64 in incredible new ways GoldenEye 007 hitting Nintendo Switch Online with online play You can get Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle for free if you have Switch Online 6 Game Boy Advance games that should head to Switch Online Switch Online + Expansion Pack feels like a real deal now Opinion Features Nintendo Nintendo Switch Opinion Gaming In a strange case of "what year even is it?," Nintendo has sold out of wireless Nintendo 64 controllers made for the Switch. Sadly, anyone hoping to get a retro-style modern controller this holiday season is going to end up disappointed. Nintendo said it won't have more in stock till 2022.
The Nintendo 64 wireless controller is pretty much exactly what it sounds like. It's a Nintendo 64 controller (weird third arm and all) except it can connect to users' Nintendo Switch consoles. The controller was given new life thanks to Nintendo's new online plan, Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack. The new plan comes with a library of Nintendo 64 and Sega Genesis games for players to barrel through, as long as they're willing to shell out some extra cash.
Gaming Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack is now available, giving Switch owners access to a small library of Nintendo 64 and Sega Genesis games for a hefty price. It's not a particularly good deal, as the Nintendo 64 app only includes nine games currently, including some truly left-field picks. A lack of button remapping options also makes certain games a nightmare to play unless you buy a wireless Nintendo 64 controller.
Regardless of how strong the deal is, I decided to check it out for myself. I didn’t have a Nintendo 64 growing up and only played the biggest hits as they were ported to other consoles. I’ve played Super Mario 64 and The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time several times each on a variety of platforms, but most of the games included in Expansion Pack were totally new to me, making it a slightly more valuable deal.
Gaming I don't pay for online services anymore. Not frequently, anyways, since almost all of my online gaming is done on my PC. If I'm getting a new co-op game or multiplayer shooter, it's exclusively going to end up in my Steam library, because I don't have to shell out a single extra cent to properly play the game.
But I can still at least acknowledge that some online services are worth the $60 they charge each year. Xbox Gold gives players free games, and so does PlayStation+. Nintendo Switch Online, on the other hand, has never felt worth the $20, and now Nintendo's asking players for $50 for the service's upgraded version, Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack. I'm not sure if the company has been listening to its users for the past three years.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
