Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides The 10 best JRPGs of all time developed by Japanese studios By Jacob Roach and Jesse Lennox Close Japanese role-playing games have their own unique blend of story, gameplay, and, in a lot of cases, style. There’s something in the combination of turn-based battles, usually with unique mechanics, character progression, and item management, that makes JRPGs so engaging, often for hours on end. In this guide, we’ve rounded up the 10 best JRPGs that you should play.
Chrono Trigger Final Fantasy VI Dragon Quest VIII Earthbound Fire Emblem: Three Houses Persona 5 Royal Xenoblade Chronicles Tales of Berseria Ni No Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch Secret of Mana Valkyria Chronicles Remastered For this list, we’re defining JRPGs as a genre. All of our games are from Japanese studios, but we didn’t include, for example, Dark Souls.
It’s an RPG, and it comes from a Japanese studio, but it doesn’t fit in the genre conventions of a JRPG as it is more of an action game with RPG elements.
Further reading The best anime video games The best RPGs on the Switch The best Final Fantasy games, ranked from best to worst Chrono Trigger Image used with permission by copyright holder Release date: March 11, 1995 The best Bethesda games of all time The best puzzle games of all time The best Final Fantasy characters of all time Platforms: SNES, Nintendo DS, iOS, Android , Windows, PlayStation, Apple TV Chrono Trigger is one of the most interesting video games ever created. Created by a supergroup of game developers, it showcases the talent of Hironobu Sakaguchi, creator of the Final Fantasy series; Yuji Horii, creator of the Dragon Quest series; and Akira Toriyama, who’s most famously known for designing the characters in Dragon Quest and Dragon Ball.
Although Chrono Trigger ’s development was messy — it was originally planned for the Final Fantasy series and eventually the Mana series — the final product is incredible. In it, you take control of six characters across various points in history, with time travel being a core mechanic in the game. Traveling back and forth through time, your party learns about a creature that will eventually wipe out civilization, and you must go back in time to prevent that from happening.
Gameplay-wise, Chrono Trigger introduced a variety of new concepts that can still be seen today. For instance, enemy encounters aren’t random — you can openly see enemies on screen — and there’s a “new game plus” mode. In battles, the game borrows from Final Fantasy with an Active Time Battle system, where characters can take actions once their timer depletes.
Final Fantasy VI Image used with permission by copyright holder Release date: April 2, 1994 Platforms: SNES, Wii, Game Boy Advance, PlayStation, Android , iOS, Windows With 15 numbered games, various sequels, and even more spinoffs, it’s hard to nail down the best Final Fantasy game.
 Instead of choosing one of the newer entries in the series, like VII or X , we’re throwing it back to the SNES era with a nod to Final Fantasy VI (or, if you’re on the SNES, Final Fantasy III ).
Final Fantasy VI is the last 2D, sprite-based game in the series before Square decided to settle on low-poly character models and pre-rendered backgrounds on the original PlayStation. The game feels like a magnum opus of old-school Final Fantasy design, with gorgeous visuals and an engaging battle system.
It’s the story that stands out most, however. Ditching the high-fantasy setting of previous entries, Final Fantasy VI explores a steampunk world where mechs and magic meet.
Final Fantasy VI defined the tone that the series would take going forward, setting a foundation for Final Fantasy VII , the best game in the series for many.
Dragon Quest VIII Image used with permission by copyright holder Release date: November 27, 2004 Platforms: Nintendo 3DS, PS2, Android , iOS Dragon Quest basically invented the JRPG, introduced in the West as Dragon Warrior way back in 1986. Released in the same year as Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Metal Gear Solid 3 , and Katamari Damacy , Dragon Quest VIII had a lot of competition. Despite that, it’s one of the best games on the PS2.
The game is a defining point in the series, developed by Level-5 and released as the first game with the Dragon Quest moniker in the West. Battles are handled in a traditional turn-based fashion with menus and sub-menus. However, VIII also includes a tension system. With this, you can skip a player’s turn to make their next attack stronger.
It also features the monster-capturing system of Dragon Quest V , allowing you to catch and use monsters during battle. Although Dragon Quest VIII is the best game in the series , it’s only available on PS2 and 3DS (there are Android and iOS ports, though they’re not very good). If you’re on a modern console, Dragon Quest XI , the most recent entry in the series, is a close second to VIII.
Earthbound Image used with permission by copyright holder Release date: August 27, 1994 Platforms: SNES, Wii, Nintendo 3DS Earthbound is the second in a series of three Mother games, the first and last of which were exclusively released in Japan. In the game, you play as Ness, a young boy living in Eagleland. After investigating a meteorite crash, Ness and his neighbor, Pokey, discover that aliens, known as Giygas, have turned their bright town into something far more sinister.
Throughout your adventure, you’ll recruit other party members as you collect melodies from eight Sanctuaries, each of which helps you fight the alien threat. Although the general plot is generic, Earthbound is anything but a standard JRPG.
Games like Final Fantasy focus heavily on the apocalyptic nature of the story, while a series like Pokémon is much more light-hearted.
Earthbound manages to do both, with the overall positive atmosphere juxtaposing the dark subject matter of the story. Furthermore, Earthbound pokes fun at many of the tropes of the JRPG genre, much in the same way as Undertale.
Fire Emblem: Three Houses Image used with permission by copyright holder Release date: July 26, 2019 Platforms: Nintendo Switch Fire Emblem: Three Houses is the latest in the long-running strategy RPG series, and although it has some fierce competition in the form of Awakening and Path of Radiance , Three Houses feels like the most definitive Fire Emblem experience to date.
Unlike previous titles, which focus almost exclusively on battles, Three Houses mixes in a life sim with the strategic gameplay. In it, you’ll have to choose between one of three houses, each of which has its own recruitable characters and story.
You play as a professor, and outside of battle, you’ll spend your time training students, building relationships, purchasing items, and recruiting new students. Like Persona, the bonds you form outside of battle will impact your performance in action, bringing a new level of depth to the series. For most people, Three Houses is the best Fire Emblem game, though Path of Radiance is a great choice for those looking for a purer experience.
Persona 5 Royal Image used with permission by copyright holder Release date: March 31, 2020 Platforms: PS4 Choosing a favorite Persona game is like picking your favorite kid. Sure, there’s one you definitely prefer over the others, but they’re all pretty great when you get down to it. For us, it’s the latest from Atlus: Persona 5, but more specifically the enhanced release called Persona 5 Royal.
 In it, you play as a silent protagonist codenamed Joker, who, along with a group of friends, travels into corrupt hearts to fix them.
It’s a cheesy setup, but one that works wonders in the context of Persona 5 Royal.
 If you’ve never played a Persona game, they’re half JRPG, half life sim. You spend most of your time going day by day as you struggle through high school classes, meet new friends, read books, and forge relationships — you can use our Persona 5 Romance guide for that.
Throughout the story, however, various events will crop up which ask the Phantom Thieves — you and your group of friends — to travel into the hearts of those who are corrupted. These dungeon-like areas are where Persona feels like a traditional JRPG, just one oozing with interesting character concepts and style. The base game alone was likely to last 100 hours, or more if you’re really invested in seeing everything, so the fact the Royal adds even more content is almost too much. You get even more confidants to level up, a new party member, an entire extra semester, and more.
Xenoblade Chronicles Image used with permission by copyright holder Release date: June 10, 2010 Platforms: Wii, Nintendo 3DS The Wii isn’t known for its lineup of JRPGs outside of Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn and a slew of re-releases for the Virtual Console.
Xenoblade Chronicles continues the series of Xeno titles on the PlayStation and PS2, which started with 1998’s Xenogears before moving onto the Xenosaga trilogy on the PS2.
Mechanically, Xenoblade Chronicles combines elements of various other JRPGs. The battle system happens in real-time, though players can input special attacks known as Arts, not to be confused with the Tales’ series Artes. Although the game can initially feel like you’re just watching a slideshow of attack animations, it grows into something far more nuanced as the game progresses and enemies get more difficult.
Unfortunately, Xenoblade Chronicles looks like a mess, both on the Wii and 3DS. The capabilities of those platforms don’t let the game stretch its legs enough, leading to muddy textures and little anti-aliasing. Thankfully, the Switch has Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition, which looks much better.
Tales of Berseria Image used with permission by copyright holder Release date: January 24, 2017 Platforms: PS3, PS4, Windows Tales of Vesperia is often hailed as the best Tales game ever released, but we’re giving a nod to Berseria here. In it, you play as Velvet, a small-town girl who’s caring for her little brother, Laphicet. We’re going to spoil the triggering event in the story here, so if you want to go in fresh, just go pick up the game.
Velvet’s brother-in-law, Artorious, is an exorcist who can kill Daemons, and he sacrifices Laphicet as part of the Advent ritual. Artorious then goes after Velvet, but she’s overcome by Daemons who possess her arm. With her hellish new arm, Velvet spends three years in prison, where she absorbs Daemons before being freed by someone formerly associated with Artorious.
That’s just the first couple of hours of Tales of Berseria.
 Featuring one of the best stories in the series and the same Arte-based combat system, Berseria combines all of the best elements of previous titles under one roof. It actually takes place in the same universe as Tales of Vesperia , just 1,000 years earlier.
Ni No Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch Image used with permission by copyright holder Release date: November 17, 2011 Platforms: Nintendo Switch, PS3, PS4, Xbox One, Windows Perhaps the most defining series for Level-5, which also developed Dragon Quest VIII , is Ni No Kuni. The first entry that shipped to the West, Wrath of the White Witch , is the best of the series. Gameplay-wise, Wrath of the White Witch is your standard JRPG, with an open overworld, various quests, and plenty of dungeons.
It comes into its own in terms of visuals and narrative. In it, you play as Oliver. After a tragic accident involving his mother, Oliver’s doll comes to life in the form of a fairy known as Drippy. Drippy tells him that there’s another world that he’s from, with an evil wizard who’s taken control.
Wrath of the White Witch is very much a fairy tale, and the visuals mirror that. Japan’s own Studio Ghibli famously produced the animated sequences in the game, as well as set the tone for the overall world design and character models. Although there are previous Ni No Kuni games, Wrath of the White Witch is the first fully realized one, able to take advantage of console hardware instead of that of mobile devices.
The sequel, Ni No Kuni 2: Revenant Kingdom follows a new protagonist named Evan, a boy who lost his kingdom attempting to build a new land for himself and his people. Unfortunately, Ghibli was not involved with the sequel, and some gameplay mechanics don’t feel as tight as the first, but there’s still plenty to love if you enjoyed the first game.
Secret of Mana Image used with permission by copyright holder Release date: August 6, 1993 Platforms: SNES, iOS, Android , Nintendo Switch, PlayStation Vita, PS4, Windows Nintendo Switch’s the Collection of Mana, plus the remake of both Trials of Mana and Secret of Mana led to a resurgence in popularity for the Mana series (known as Seiken Densetsu in Japan). But we’re going to look at the West’s initial introduction to Seiken Densetsu with the 16-bit version of Secret of Mana.
Secret of Mana was initially released for the SNES in 1993 and was seemingly similar to typical 16-bit JRPGs. But unlike its contemporaries, the battles occur in real-time. It was also much more action-oriented than the JRPGs released at the time. Still, many elements, such as the ability to level up and use magic, were along the lines of other games in the JRPG genre.
Secret of Mana holds an esteemed place in JRPG history because its maker originally developed the Final Fantasy IV game systems. They eventually reworked this system into a project with the codename of Chrono Trigger. After building upon those mechanics, the final release became Secret of Mana , though the designers reworked many of the Chrono Trigger project aspects into the Chrono Trigger game.
Valkyria Chronicles Remastered Release date: 2008 Platforms: PC, PS4, PS3, Switch Image used with permission by copyright holder Placed in a setting not often tread by most JRPGs, Valkyria Chronicles places you in a conflict with tanks and weaponry analogous to World War 2. The plot is just as intriguing, thanks to the inclusion of fantasy that blends perfectly into the more historical setting. That unique spin on things makes this game a breath of fresh air among all the more static plots of pure magic, crystals, and monsters.
The gameplay in Valkyria Chronicles is squad-based. You build your unit of soldiers to bring into each battle, managing their loadouts before beginning each intense conflict. Combat is turn-based, but also real-time. Time moves as you move any character, which is done from the third-person perspective in an open environment. Positioning and careful planning is key to keeping everyone alive, especially if you want to complete every objective.
The series has managed to go on to create a successful franchise, with four main entries to date, but the remastered original is where everyone should start their journey.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked Final Fantasy VII Rebirth finally launches next February Will Final Fantasy 16 get DLC? The best skills in Final Fantasy 16 All Wall of Memories curiosities in Final Fantasy 16 Gaming Every Final Fantasy game changes up the battle system in one way or another. Final Fantasy 16 isn't the first to have real-time, action-focused combat, but is by far the most polished and refined one. The story is by no means secondary, but for the first time players are able to really express themselves through the various combos and abilities you can pull off. Square Enix recognized this and included special combat trails called Chronolith Trials. These are somewhat similar to the special missions you can find in games like Devil May Cry 5 where you are faced with a unique challenge for a reward. As tough as these challenges are to beat, finding them is also a bit of a chore. Hop on your Chocobo and follow our lead to find all the Chronolith locations in Final Fantasy 16.
What are Chronolith Trials? Chronolith Trials are unique combat trails that put you into an arena that spawns waves of enemies. There will always be three rooms that each spawn three waves of enemies, plus a boss at the end. You're on a timer, and can only use a designated Eikon with predetermined abilities. By pulling off Battle Techniques, including Precision Dodge and Ability Finishes, you can extend your time. If you're quick enough to beat all the enemies without running out of time, you'll earn a special accessory as a reward. There are seven in total, and completing them all will also unlock the final Wall of Memory item you need to complete that collection.
All Chronolith Trial locations Phoenix In Greensheaves in Rosaria, fast travel to Martha's Rest and exit to the north. Follow the path east and you will find it just before the path leading to Rhiannon's Ride.
Gaming While the role-playing game (RPG) has become a catch-all genre, now encompassing an almost silly range of games that don't share much in common, there was one video game franchise in the 1980s that was the quintessential RPG. Yes, we're talking about Final Fantasy from Square Enix.
The fantasy Japanese RPGs debuted on the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) in 1987, but they became cultural touchstones in the '90s as Super Nintendo games. From there, the series made an incredibly successful jump to 3D on the PlayStation 1 before the mainline series started to take more risks, including the elimination of turn-based battles and massively multiplayer online game (MMO) entries, and the latest game, Final Fantasy XVI, becoming a full-on character-action game.
Gaming Every JRPG, and even games with RPG elements, likes to introduce new systems into the mix for you to learn and interact with. Most of the mechanics in Final Fantasy 16 will be familiar, like sidequests, upgrading gear, and unlocking abilities. However, later on, the game will introduce you to the Renown system once you take control of the Cursebreakers. This occurs once you reach the main hub of the game called Cid's Hideaway after going through the main story until you reach A Chance Encounter. While you might be feeling content ignoring this new mechanic and just pushing on with the main story, there are plenty of reasons to learn it. Here's a simple explanation of how the Renown system works in Final Fantasy 16.
What is Renown and how to earn it Without spoiling much, after Clive takes on a certain mantle and is in charge of Cid's Hideaway, the Renown system will automatically be put into effect. This is meant to represent how much inspiration and support Clive has earned from the people of Valisthea in his cause and fight against the Blight. You can see how much Renown you currently have by visiting the Patron's Whisper and talking to Desiree.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
