Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Guides How to get tech parts in Spider-Man 2 By Jesse Lennox Close Amid all the different tokens, memories, and photo-ops you need to collect in Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 , the one material that is both the most common and most necessary is Tech Parts. With the exception of your abilities, which only require skill points you earn by leveling up, essentially everything you can unlock or upgrade in the game will cost Tech Parts alongside one other material. You might think you will never run low early on when you start getting them in batches of over 100 at a time, but once you start unlocking all the slick new suits and styles and gadgets you want to upgrade, you’ll realize just how desperate you are to get more. Your spider-sense can’t help you with this one, so here are the best ways you can get Tech Parts in Spider-Man 2.
Best ways to get Tech Parts Sony Interactive Entertainment Tech Parts are the most basic upgrade component in Spider-Man 2 , and the city is full of them. But you’re better off using these methods to get them rather than others.
The most lucrative source of Tech Parts are the FNSM requests. These are small sidequests that are sent to you through the FNSM app and will appear on your map. Each one rewards you with 250 Tech Parts, which is the highest amount you can get for a single task. They don’t take long to do, and more unlock as you progress the main story.
The best PS5 exclusives The best PS5 games for 2023 All stash locations in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them Two other options with slightly lower payouts are Hunter Blinds and EMF experiments, which are worth 150 and 140 Tech Parts, respectively. The former are more combat-oriented, while the latter are simple puzzles, so pick your poison based on which you find more fun or can do faster.
The last two decent sources are not reliable, but are worth being on the lookout for as you swing from place to place in the open world. They are tech stashes and Spider-bots. Neither of these is marked on your map, so you need to keep an eye out for a blue glow for the stashes or purple pulsing orb for the bots. Stashes just need to be popped open to get a small amount of free parts, usually around 45 to 70 or so. With Spider-bots, you just need to spot and get close enough to zip to them to collect for 100 parts.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The PS5 games with the best graphics All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond How to get every ending in Lords of the Fallen What is the code to the Lizard’s lab in Spider-Man 2? Comic Book Movies Marvel Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming Everyone knows the iconic Spider-Man suit. The red-and-blue spandex uniform has been iterated on and altered hundreds of times over the course of decades, leading to some similar and some very different designs. Spider-Man 2 introduces Venom and the symbiote suit to the mix as a plot point, but there are almost 70 total suits from various comics, shows, and movies to unlock and wear between Peter pParker and Miles Morales. Unlocking them is one thing, but changing between them, and their new styles, is another. With this guide, you will be able to change your spider style as fast as our heroes when duty calls.
How to change suits Once you've snagged your first additional suit and used some Tokens to unlock it, changing between them is a breeze. Simply open your menu, go to the Suits tab, and highlight the one you want to wear. If you want to switch between Peter and Miles, simply hit L2 or R2 to cycle between the Spider-Men since each has their own unique set of suit options. Press X on the suit you want to wear and -- bam! -- your Spider-Man is now decked out in a new style. However, that's not all. Many suits have additional styles you can unlock by spending some Tech Parts. These give you three additional color options for that specific suit to further customize your look.
Gaming There is no shortage of collectibles to gather and activities to do in Spider-Man 2. From photo-ops to Prowler Stashes, the map is filled with icons showing you where to go to find just about anything you need. One thing that isn't marked on your map, however, is a very special collectible for Miles Morales. This isn't required for any specific quest, and won't give you any XP, but it does reward you with the Just Let Go trophy that is necessary if you want to get the coveted Platinum trophy. With no clues as to where to find this tiny science trophy on the massive New York map, you could spend hours swinging around looking. Instead, we'll show you exactly where to look so you can check this trophy off your list.
How to get the Just Let Go trophy The science trophy we're looking for is in the southern part of the Financial District on a church. The exact location can be seen above, but the church itself is impossible to miss once you're in the area. When you reach the church, climb up onto the roof behind the main steeple and look up at the small balcony running around it. If you're close enough, you will see the small white circle indicating that there's something you can interact with there.
Gaming Peter Parker has had a hard life. He was orphaned by his parents as a child and raised by his caring Aunt May and Uncle Ben, only for Ben to be killed in an act that would shape Spider-Man's entire philosophy as a hero. Things only get worse during the events of the first act of Insomniac's Spider-Man 2 as Aunt May is tragically killed as well, leaving Peter with no more true parental figures. Peter hasn't forgotten all his caring aunt and uncle have done for him, and if you can find their gravesite, he will pay them respect, as well as earn you a Trophy. It's a big graveyard, though, and their site isn't marked on the map. Here's where Uncle Ben and Aunt May's graves are located in Spider-Man 2.
How to find Aunt May and Uncle Ben's graves The graveyard is located at the most-northeastern point on the New York map in Harlem. If you have unlocked fast travel in this district, you can warp almost directly to the spot. Once in the graveyard, go forward down the middle into the open field. You might spot Mile's father's grave first. May and Ben's graves are directly to the right of that.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
