Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Cities: Skylines II beginner’s guide: tips and tricks to get started By Jesse Lennox Close The city-building genre has served a niche audience for the decades since the original Sim City popularized the idea of allowing players to design and manage their own little utopias. With that original franchise on ice, it fell to a newcomer, Cities: Skylines, to take up the mantle as the major player in the genre, and it managed to be a well-received replacement. That title got tons of support from the developers and community, but it finally came time for a sequel to freshen things up.
Cities: Skylines II is building on the same foundation as city builders of the past, but it also brings in new features and mechanics that even seasoned city planners will need to wrap their heads around. Whether this is your first time raising a city from scratch or you’ve poured hundreds of hours into urban design, these are the essential tips and tricks you need to know when starting out in Cities: Skylines II.
Picking your plot Manage your early budget Milestones and Development Points Don’t overreach early and plan ahead Don’t upgrade until needed Picking your plot Paradox Interactive The first major choice you will need to make in Cities: Skylines II is where you want to actually go about building your dream society. At launch, the game comes with six maps to pick between, but this decision carries more weight than just aesthetic differences. Yes, each map has its own look that will determine how your buildings, homes, and even vehicles look, but there are deeper mechanical changes you want to plan for.
First are the terrain and resources of a map. The terrain of a map will naturally limit and influence the ways you can and cannot expand and grow your city, but it also has a massive impact on your street and transportation design. Maps in Cities: Skylines II are about five times larger than they were in the first game, but how much of that space you can freely build on will vary depending on the map. Along with the general terrain, each map will have different resources in varying amounts. Depending on what type of energy is most plentiful on a map, and in what locations, should be accounted for beforehand to properly zone and segment your different districts.
Finally, each map is meant to represent a different part of the world that experiences unique climates. Again, sn0w and sun are not just for show here. A map’s latitude will mean days are longer or shorter, and whether the weather is more or less extreme. What this means for you as a city planner is that your population’s behavior will be different depending on these factors. On top of that, if you are in an area prone to inclement weather, you need to have extra preparations in place for increased energy usage and more maintenance services for when the infrastructure goes down. Note the seasonal, continental, and polar climates of each map before making your choice.
Manage your early budget Paradox Interactive As much as you may want to get right to the “good” stuff and start building up giant skyscrapers, Cities: Skylines II requires you to take it slow each and every time you start a new city. This is especially important if you’re new to the genre. Your starting budget may seem generous, but it will start draining faster than you might think. Initially stick to establishing a functional residential area, complete with smaller-sized homes and enough power, roads, and other utilities, to keep your monthly costs low before gradually taking on bigger zones with larger buildings as you generate profits.
For newcomers especially, remember to pause frequently in the beginning. Before you have any income flowing in, time passing is just a drain on your budget, so don’t waste it planning things out in real time when you can stop the clock and make a plan. This is especially important once you have citizens, but haven’t fully established services like trash removal and running water.
Milestones and Development Points Cities: SkylinesII uses a Milestone and Development system to provide you with gradual upgrades and new features as your city grows. There are 20 Milestones to complete before you’ve maxed out and reached the highest level of city that you unlock by earning XP. You don’t have to go out of your way to earn or spend XP, just keep building, upgrading, and expanding and it will come naturally. As you hit Milestone levels, you will get Development Points that you want to pay far more attention to.
Development Points are spent on skill trees in the Development tab of your menu. There are almost a dozen tabs here you can spend these points on, including new roads, tourist attractions, upgraded education, emergency services, parks, and more. What category you will want to invest in depends on where you set your city and what your needs are, but sitting on these points will hold you back from growing at the rate you should.
Don’t overreach early and plan ahead Paradox Interactive Going hand in hand with managing your early budget is creating a plan early and sticking to it as much as possible. Zoning may seem like the best way to lay out your future metropolis, but you need to resist that urge. Go ahead and plan out your road and district network, but don’t designate any zones for specific purposes until you know that’s what you need. Being a simulation game, you can never be 100% sure what your budding city will need as it gets off the ground. If you zone out too much space for one thing, but end up needing another first, then you not only have wasted space, but will have an overall less efficient city.
Always check your current city needs in the City Information tab. This will tell you all the places where your city is lacking and what zones should be prioritized first.
Don’t upgrade until needed Finally, don’t be too eager to upgrade your existing buildings as soon as you can. These might seem like great investments, especially for your service buildings, but unless you’re going to immediately take advantage of that upgrade, it is a massive money pit. There’s the initial upgrade cost, of course, but upgrading a building also increases its monthly costs as well, which can easily bring you into the negative if you’re not getting value out of it. You also can’t undo upgrading a building, so this is an early mistake that could spiral into your eventual collapse if you’re not careful.
Editors' Recommendations Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: tips and tricks for MWZ How to get City Tokens in Spider-Man 2 Baldur’s Gate 3: tips and tricks for beginners BattleBit Remastered: tips and tricks for winning the 245-player shooter Popular city-builder Cities: Skylines is getting a sequel this year Gaming Who would've guessed that a simple mix of Mastermind and Wheel of Fortune, with a little bit of Hangman thrown in, would become such a massive hit? If you somehow haven't heard of this new mobile and PC gaming phenomenon, you may have seen the weird colored grids people have been posting online and been confused about what all the fuss is about.
Wordle is a simple but genius example of a puzzle game that will draw you back day after day. Don't let those weird-colored boxes throw you off; this is a game anyone can pick up in a few minutes.
Gaming We've had plenty One Piece games before, but never an expansive and lengthy JRPG like we've gotten with One Piece Odyssey. Fans of the anime and manga, or even the prior games based on the massively popular pirate adventures of Luffy and company, will find quite a unique experience when booting up this title. It isn't the most difficult game, but there are some things worth knowing before you set sail in these uncharted lands. Here are some essential tips and tricks for One Piece Odyssey to make sure you aren't stretched to your limits.
Further Reading Gaming The Pokémon franchise has always specialized in family-friendly RPGs first and foremost. The main mechanics and focus of each game, which is to battle, catch, and train Pokémon, is very easy for even new players to grasp. At the same time, those who have been with the series for a long time have enjoyed a steady evolution of more deep and complex mechanics to further push the competitive nature of fighting monsters. For a long time, battling other trainers was the only real way to challenge yourself after beating the game, but Pokémon Scarlet and Violet has added something else for hardcore trainers to test themselves against.
Tera Raids are the toughest challenges in Scarlet and Violet. These encounters against special Pokémon are so challenging that you can't take them on alone. These battles take advantage of the new Terastallized Pokémon, and are ranked in difficulty with a star level. There's a lot more to these than just throwing your strongest Pokémon out there and hoping for the best. Here's a full breakdown on how Tera Raids work, their rewards, and some tips and tricks to come out on top in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
