Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? With a few concessions, Persona 5 Royal is right at home on Switch By George Yang Close Persona 5 Royal is one of the greatest Japanese RPGs of all time and had been touted as a phenomenal PlayStation exclusive — until now. The original vanilla version, Persona 5 , hit Japan in late 2016 for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4. The expanded Persona 5 Royal included new features such as an entire new winter semester and a new Phantom Thief character. Suffice it to say, the former PS4 exclusive Persona 5 Royal was previously the absolute definitive edition to play the amazing dungeon crawling and life sim hybrid.
Perfect imperfections Tailoring the experience Now, the game is coming to Xbox, PC, and Nintendo Switch for more audiences to enjoy. It’s also getting a native PS5 version, as well as being added to Xbox Game Pass. Over 40 items of previously released DLC that contain extra costumes and bonus Personas are included on these new platforms.
As with many Switch ports, there’s always a question of how well Nintendo’s handheld can handle games built for more powerful hardware. To test that, I played the game on Nintendo Switch and found that it runs pretty flawlessly on the portable console. There are some concessions on the Switch version in order to make it run smoothly, but they have little negative impact on the overall gameplay experience.
Persona 5 Tactica is making the tactics genre more approachable than ever Nintendo Switch loses an exclusive Square Enix game next month Persona 3 Portable’s modern remaster shows how far the series has come Perfect imperfections In Persona 5 Royal , you play a nameable protagonist in high school. As a student by day, he goes through his normal high school life studying for exams and participating in school clubs. By night, he’s a Phantom Thief, codenamed Joker. The Phantom Thieves are a group of students who can summon Personas, beings that can fight monsters called Shadows. The Phantom Thieves’ goal is to change the hearts of evil people in Japan, by sneaking into their elaborate mind palaces (which serve as traditional dungeons).
Image used with permission by copyright holder While outside of the palaces during school hours, Tokyo is crowded with civilians walking around. Despite the density of NPCs running around Tokyo or the glitzy backgrounds of Kamoshida’s palace, the Switch held on strong with its performance. I didn’t encounter any sort of noticeable frame drops when traversing these locations, and my experience was very smooth throughout.
The Switch version does take a bit of a graphical hit though. Some character models look blurrier than their console counterparts on PlayStation and Xbox. The edges around their faces and bodies aren’t as sharp either. However, these drawbacks are negligible and you most likely won’t even notice them unless you’re hunting for imperfections.
The Switch version runs at 30 frames per second (fps) compared to the Xbox Series X version ’s 60 fps, but since Persona 5 Royal utilizes turn-based combat, it’s not as big of a setback as it would be in an action RPG like Scarlet Nexus or Tales of Arise.
 The only instance where a better frame rate would be helpful is when you’re trying to ambush shadows or running away from them. However, the game’s hiding mechanic makes ambushing incredibly easy regardless.
Tailoring the experience Persona 5 Royal ’s user interface during a battle on PlayStation corresponded to the various controller buttons like X to guard and O to attack. Atlus did a good job translating those to the Switch Joy-Cons here as well. On the right Joy-Con, B is guard and A is attack. Another small attention to detail is that the buttons aren’t colored on the Switch version because the Joy-Con buttons themselves aren’t.
Compare this to the PlayStation version, where the X button is blue and the O button is red. On the Xbox version, the battle UI makes the B button red and the A button green, just like the platform’s controller. It’s a pleasing touch that gives each version of Persona 5 Royal on individual platforms a subtle distinct personality from each other.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Thankfully, Atlus decided to include some previously released DLC in these new ports of Persona 5 Royal for free. When the game was first released in 2020 for PlayStation 4, The Battle bundle needed to be bought separately. This particular one lets the Phantom Thieves fight the protagonists from Persona 3 and Persona 4.
 The Legacy DLC bundle, which was already free for PS4 Persona 5 Royal owners, is free once again. It includes a bunch of overpowered Personas from previous games in the franchise. For example, you can summon Persona 3 ’s protagonist’s ultimate Persona, Messiah, at level 85 even near the start of the game. They aren’t restricted by the game’s usual Persona creation rules. If you’re not willing to break the game very early on, they can be easily ignored.
These versions of Persona 5 Royal are pretty much the same as the original PS4 version from 2020, except for this time, there are some extra bells and whistles depending on the platform. For the Switch, it’s the portability. On Xbox, its easy accessibility through Game Pass and increased frame rate. On PC, modders will have a field day.
I’m honestly shocked it took this long for Persona 5 Royal to make its way to other platforms, especially Switch. The pickup and play structure of the game makes it perfect for the portable handheld and it runs very well too. If this is your first time playing Persona 5 Royal , the Switch version is a great way to experience this incredible journey. If this is your second or third time, or even beyond, playing this game, I can’t think of a better way to be welcomed back.
Editors' Recommendations Sony’s new PlayStation earbuds are a perfect match — for my Nintendo Switch You saw it coming: Persona 3 and Persona 5 Tactica officially revealed MLB The Show 23 returns to Xbox, PlayStation, and Nintendo Switch this March You can play a fan-made Super Mario Bros. 5 in Mario Maker 2 right now Want to predict the next big Nintendo Switch game? Just rewind 5 years Features Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Animal Crossing is one of gaming's most popular franchises, giving players a much-needed break from the world of challenging, narrative-driven, and thought-provoking adventures in favor of zen community management. Few other games have managed to match its unique gameplay loop in ways that feel equally rewarding and relaxing, but that's not stopping Disney from shooting its shot at the genre with Disney Dreamlight Valley.
While the two games are no doubt very similar, Dreamlight Valley has a handful of notable features that will likely sway many players in one direction or the other. Let's take a look at five of the biggest ways these two life simulation titles differ from one another.
Gaming Atlus Japan has revealed that those who already own the PlayStation 4 version of Persona 5 Royal will not be able to upgrade to the PlayStation 5 version. The game will have to be purchased again at its listed price when it launches on October 21 along with the PC, Nintendo Switch, and Xbox versions.
Atlus Japan's recent FAQ post asks, "If I purchased Persona 5 Royal for PlayStation 4, can I upgrade to Persona 5 Royal for the PlayStation 5?" The answer is a resounding no, saying, "We're sorry, but there are no items for purchasers of Persona 5 Royal for PlayStation 4 in this game. When you play on your PlayStation 5, we hope you can purchase Persona 5 Royal for PlayStation 5." Gaming Nintendo Switch Online's Expansion Pack tier membership just got some legendary Sega Genesis games for its final June 2022 update. One of those titles happens to be Zero Wing: a game many have seen without even knowing, thanks to the very iconic, "All your base are belong to us," meme.
SEGA Genesis - June 2022 Game Updates - Nintendo Switch Online Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
