Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This deal gets you a PS5 for less than $470 By Jennifer Allen Close Digital Trends One of the best PlayStation deals is perfect if you don’t mind buying a refurbished model. Over at Back Market, you can buy the PlayStation 5 for only $463 for a good-condition console. It’s a refurbished model so it’s been previously owned, however, it’s verified to be fully working and comes with a one-year warranty so it’s not much different compared to buying new. Your console will be repaired or replaced in the first year if the worst happens. Sounds appealing? Keep reading while we tell you more about the PlayStation 5.
Why you should buy the PlayStation 5 The Sony PlayStation 5 meets the expectations we all have of the latest game consoles. It loads games within mere seconds with the best PS5 games being something truly special and including titles like Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales, Gran Turismo 7 , and God of War: Ragnarok.
A distinctive-looking device, the PlayStation 5 is certainly eye-catching and a bit more futuristic looking than the box-like shape of the Xbox Series X.
 This particular model has an 825GB SSD drive but the usable amount is 667GB so you might want to add on one of the best SSDs for PS5 to have additional room. You do have a Blu-ray drive at your disposal though so you can simply focus on physical copies of games over digital releases.
Outside of storage issues, the PS5 doesn’t put a foot wrong with its controller a particular highlight. It has haptic feedback so you get a more precise sense of touch than regular force feedback. Also, the adaptive triggers mean you can ease yourself into a corner or when lining up a shot, feeling so much more immersive. There’s also a built-in microphone if you don’t want to use a dedicated headset. The PS5 is a great console oozing with plenty of awesome games and a general user experience that feels a cut above the rest.
Right now, you can buy the PlayStation 5 from Back Market for $463. As a refurbished unit, it’s been previously owned but it comes with a full one-year warranty so you won’t have to worry about running into any issues. It’s an ideal way to get the latest console for less than you’d ordinarily pay.
Editors' Recommendations This is hands-down the best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deal The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Xbox Series S Black Friday deals: consoles, games, and accessories The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The best gaming chair Black Friday deals you can shop now Deals Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming Over at Walmart, there's currently one of the best PlayStation deals we've seen in a while with $60 off the PlayStation 5 disc console with Marvel's Spider-Man 2. Usually priced at $559, it's down to $499 as part of Walmart's early Black Friday deals. If you're looking to buy a PlayStation 5 for yourself or as a gift for someone, check it out now by hitting the button below.
The PlayStation 5 matches all the expectations you'd have of one of the latest games consoles. It's incredibly fast in every way. That means that games load fast but they also look amazing. Even simply browsing your console is speedy and efficient.
Gaming When we think of Black Friday, we think of a great time to get cool stocking stuffers and hobby essentials for our loved ones just as much as big ticket items for ourselves. This year, we're finding that early Black Friday deals are giving us the best of both worlds, especially now that Walmart's Black Friday deals have launched. For example, the official PS5 DualSense controller (one of the best controllers in its own right) is on sale now for just $49. That's $21 down from its usual $70 price point, making it a great way to help open up multiplayer gaming for yourself, a friend, or kid. Just tap the button below to shop for yours today, or keep reading if you need to know more about it.
Why you should buy a PS5 DualSense controller Sometimes we can look down on the original of something, preferring more fancy alternatives that come out later and refine the model. The PS5 DualSense controller, however, is innovative in its own right. We've praised its haptic feedback, which makes you feel the weight of your actions as you pull on the controller's triggers, since we first discussed the PS5 DualSense's innovations and we're no less happy now. Just pair the controller with a PS5 compatible headset and you're ready for multi-sensory immersion.
Gaming The PlayStation 5 is looking to dominate the console landscape with its incredible library of games. Like the rest of the industry, Sony saw several major game delays in 2022 (and more this year), but has since dropped several new hit games like God of War Ragnarok, the Resident Evil 4 remake, and Alan Wake 2, among others. There are plenty of games out on PS5 for every kind of gamer.
And there are plenty more great titles on the way — don't forget to check out our list of the best upcoming PS5 games that will come out later this year.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
