Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Guides All charm locations and effects in Alan Wake 2 By Billy Givens Close Alan Wake 2 features an abundance of collectibles to find if you’d like to see and learn about everything the game has to offer, and some of them can actually come in handy for combat, too. While playing as Saga, you’re going to want to keep your eyes open for charms to find and equip, most of which can be obtained by completing nursery rhymes around each of the game’s three main maps. Below, we’ve listed all of the charms in the game, what effects they provide, and where you can find them.
All charm locations and effects Logan’s Charm Effect: Increases your maximum health.
Location: Obtained automatically at the beginning of the game.
Coffee Mug Charm Effect: Saves you from dying when your health is depleted, but it breaks immediately after.
How to play split screen in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 The best perks in Modern Warfare 3 Should you pick Claude or Rena in Star Ocean: The Second Story R Locations: There are multiple Coffee Mug Charms in Alan Wake 2.
Cauldron Lake – Solve a nursery rhyme near Witchfinder’s Station, then follow the prints on the ground to a bed upstairs.
Cauldron Lake – Solve a nursery rhyme in the Rental Cabins area, then check inside Cabin 6.
Cauldron Lake – Solve a nursery rhyme near the Ranger Station, then follow the prints on the ground to the bed upstairs.
Watery – Solve a nursery rhyme in the northeastern section of the map, then visit the nearby moose statue.
Watery – Solve a nursery rhyme in the building behind Suomi Hall, then check the mailbox outside.
Mayor Setter Charm Effect: Shows all collectibles on the map.
Location: Obtained by visiting Mayor Setter in Watery in Return 6.
Hammer Charm Effect: Attacks will stagger foes more frequently.
Location: Obtained by solving a nursery rhyme in the far western section of Cauldron Lake, then checking the picnic table beside the puzzle.
Kalevala Nights Charm Effect: Increase the duration and area of effect of your Hand Flare.
Location: Obtained by solving a nursery rhyme at the Private Cabin in Cauldron Lake, then walking north into Streamside to a tree with a fallen birdhouse.
Deer Charm Effect: Makes it so you’re staggered and interrupted less intensely/frequently.
Location: Obtained by solving a nursery rhyme near the Radio Tower in Watery, then checking a deer corpse very close to the Radio Tower itself.
Coffee World Token Charm Effect: Improves the quality and quantity of found resources.
Location: Obtained by solving a nursery rhyme at the wharf in the Watery trailer park, then checking the fish cleaning station nearby.
Lighthouse Charm Effect: Increases how much health is restored at Safe Havens.
Location: Obtained by solving a nursery rhyme at the Watery Lighthouse, then heading north to check the beach near the bridge back to downtown Watery.
Mr. Drippy Charm Effect: Improves your damage when your health is low.
Location: Obtained by solving a nursery rhyme at Coffee World’s Latte Lagoon in Watery, then checking the little boat that floats up right after.
FBC Charm Effect: Increase the damage you deal prior to enemies noticing you.
Location: Obtained by solving a nursery rhyme outside of the Ranger Cabin in Watery, then checking the bed upstairs.
Deerfest Charm Effect: Increases time before Darkness Shields regenerate.
Location: Obtained by completing a nursery rhyme at the trailer park in Watery and then checking near the exit of the same trailer.
Lantern Charm Effect: Adds an extra charge to your flashlight.
Location: Obtained by solving a nursery rhyme found in the area between Bunker Woods and the Wellness Center in Bright Falls, then following the path back towards Bunker Woods.
Valhalla Nursing Home Charm Effect: Improves the healing of trauma pads and painkillers.
Location: Obtained by solving a nursery rhyme at the Ranger Station in Bright Falls, then checking the beach to the northeast.
Anchor Charm Effect: Grants a chance that your flashlight boost will stun an enemy.
Location: Obtained by solving a nursery rhyme at the boat yard in Bright Falls, then checking near a boat nearby.
Editors' Recommendations Where to find planes in Fortnite OG Alan Wake 2 studio is rebooting its upcoming multiplayer project All Lunchbox locations in Alan Wake 2 All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond All TV locations in Alan Wake 2 How-To Guides Microsoft Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Xbox Gaming Alan Wake 2 splits its campaign up between the titular writer from the original game and a new character, FBI agent Saga. While the two play mostly the same, each one does have some bespoke elements. Aside from smaller touches like each having their own weapons and inventory, they also have different sets of collectibles to search out. While Saga needs to track down and solve things like Nursery Rhymes and open Cult Stashes, Alan's hidden items, called Words of Power, are more in line with his profession. These are more concepts than actual, physical items to grab, and must be picked up in a unique way. Not only are they worth finding because they unlock a Trophy, but they also will help smooth out the difficulty curve since they serve as upgrades for Alan. Our words may not be as powerful as Alan's, but they can still guide you to every Word of Power location in Alan Wake 2.
How Words of Power work Words of Power are environmental objects that only Alan can interact with. While exploring his section, you will be able to hunt down these spots on the map and find a spiral of words written somewhere. To "collect" one, you simply need to shine your light on it from the right angle -- your controller will vibrate to let you know you're getting close.
Words of Power are divided into seven types, each of which offers three different upgrade options in different areas. Here's each type and how they can improve Alan's skills.
Gaming The Dark Place and Cultists in Alan Wake 2 may be dark and twisted manifestations of an evil force, but once you shed away the darkness, everything will fall into your arsenal of firearms. Neither Alan nor FBI agent Saga are exactly equipped with the firepower you'd want when wandering through the haunted woods and mind-bending Dark Place, but they can make do with what they have in clever ways. Saga specifically is skilled enough to upgrade all the weapons in her inventory to better protect herself against the supernatural threats that stalk her. Upgrades don't come cheap, and if you find all the weapons in the game, you will need to make some tough calls on how you improve them. Here are the upgrades you need to see the final chapter of Alan Wake 2's story.
How weapon upgrades work You can upgrade your weapons whenever you like in Alan Wake 2 by visiting Saga's Mind Place. Any weapon you have is available to upgrade there, provided you have the required amount of manuscript fragments that you collect from the hidden Luncboxes around the map. These are distinct from the Cult Stashes, so be on the lookout for them since you will need to find quite a few before you can afford even the first upgrade.
Best weapon upgrades More Bullets Your starting pistol may not be the most flashy gun in Alan Wake 2, but it is always reliable and it never stops being effective. The first upgrade you should get has to be More Bullets. This will increase the pistol's default magazine size from 12 to 18. This will obviously make it easier and safer to deal with encounters since you won't be caught reloading as often but also helps keep your inventory clean since less space will be taken up for ammo.
Another Headshot For another pistol upgrade, Another Headshot is very powerful if you're a sharpshooter. If you can score two headshots in a row, the unlucky Cultist will be stunned for a comically long time. That gives you plenty of time to either deal free damage, heal, or just run away if you're low on resources and not prepared for a fight.
Ready for More The best shotgun upgrade is easily Ready for More. Healing is not only a limited resource, which again takes up inventory space but also a somewhat long animation. If you're in a tight situation and on the verge of death, there usually isn't much you can do. Ready for More can bail you out since it will turn any kill you get with the shotgun into a bit of healing. It isn't a huge amount, but every bit makes a difference.
Two Shots The Crossbow may be a late-game addition to your toolset, but is absolutely worth saving some manuscript fragments to upgrade ASAP. Two Shots is borderline essential, making it so you can fire twice rather than just once before needing to reload.
Magnetic Pull Magnetic Pull could be the best upgrade in the game. With it, after you skewer an enemy with a bolt, switching to another gun will make those bullets track to the bolt for guaranteed hits. If you're comfortable swapping weapons on the fly, this is satisfying and efficient.
Gaming There are a lot of collectibles to find in Alan Wake 2, so you're probably wondering if there's a way to show them all on your map. The answer is yes, but only when having the Mayor Setter Charm equipped, which you can't obtain until pretty late in the game by visiting Mayor Setter himself. When that time comes, you may be shocked to find that Mayor Setter is actually a dog. Less shocking, however, is that you'll probably want to pet him.
Luckily, in addition to being a pleasant experience, petting this political canine will accomplish multiple useful things. For starters, you'll earn the trophy or achievement called "The Nice Things in Life," which marks one more thing off your list for 100% completion. But perhaps most importantly, Mayor Setter will bestow upon you the aforementioned Mayor Setter Charm. When wearing this charm in one of your charm slots, you'll be able to spot the locations of basically any collectible on the map, making tracking everything down significantly easier without a guide.
How to get the Mayor Setter Charm and show all collectibles on the map Mayor Setter will spawn in the game in Return 6 after you've spoken with your colleagues in the police station and selected to continue exploring instead of passing the point of no return. At this point, you can return to your car and drive to Watery to find that Mayor Setter is sitting on the stage inside Suomi Hall where you can interact with him to earn the Mayor Setter Charm, which you can then equip to show all unfound collectibles on the map.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
