Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides All Mysterium locations in Spider-Man 2 By Jesse Lennox Close It seems like a requirement for superhero games to bring in a villain just to set up challenges for the hero to complete. In the first Spider-Man, this was Taskmaster, but in Spider-Man 2 , we get Mysterio and his Mysterium challenges. Not only are they simply fun ways to test your spider skills against some unique trials, but you can also get your hands on some Hero Tokens for performing well. Plus, you also get a little more insight into this unique former villain. That’s all well and good, but by this point in the game, you should know that you won’t be given the exact locations for each challenge right away. If your spider-sense is failing you on where to find all the Mysteriums in Spider-Man 2 , we’ll mark your map so you can swing straight to the action.
All Mysterium locations and requirements Sony Interactive Entertainment Sony Interactive Entertainment Mysteriums, also known as mysterium dev diaries, unlock after you complete Chapter 12 of the main game. This is the chapter where you first meet Mysterio at the carnival while playing as Miles and go through his attraction. Once you beat this chapter, a few Mysteriums will appear on your map, but more will pop up as you continue to go through the story. You need to do them all as Miles, and each rank earns you Hero Tokens. Here is where you can find them all.
Under Construction – Harlem This is a “defeat all enemies”-style challenge, but these always come with a twist. In this case, around halfway through the challenge, poison gas will fill the arena and constantly drain your health. You can heal to recover, but if you’re on a good pace and have upgraded your health, then you should concentrate on using your Focus for finishers to complete the challenge faster.
Here are the requirements for each rank: Gold: <1:00 Silver: <1:30 Bronze: >1:30 Everyone’s a Critic – Central Park Our second take focuses on beating a number of enemies quickly here. The twist this time around is that partway through, Mysterio himself will show up and give all the enemies a buff that makes them invulnerable to damage. Focus only on Mysterio floating around to remove the buff as fast as you can so you can finish off the remaining grunts.
Here are the requirements for each rank: Gold: <1:45 Silver: <2:15 Bronze: >2:15 Prison Break – Upper East Side This is just a big fat brawl against waves of enemies. Do what you do best to clear them out as fast as you can.
Here are the requirements for each rank: Gold: <2:15 Silver: <2:45 Bronze: >2:45 The Invisible Enemy – Midtown Hey, look at that, another challenge where you need to beat enemies fast! This one has two twists, however. The first is that you need to perform finishers to make the KO count, and the second is that enemies become invisible after a short time, but that doesn’t mean they’re invulnerable. Unless one is about to attack you, it will be hard to locate and smack them around. A great trick here is to use your Gadget that pulls all enemies together to make any enemies around you visible and vulnerable to attack.
Here are the requirements for each rank: Gold: <2:10 Silver: <2:40 Bronze: >2:40 Fight on Time – Chinatown Another take on the Finisher challenge, this time you’re fighting under a large clock. After set intervals, the clock will shoot a tracking beam at you that you need to avoid. It won’t instantly kill you, but it does a lot of damage and interrupts anything you were doing.
Here are the requirements for each rank: Gold: <3:30 Silver: <5:00 Bronze: >5:00 Road Rage – Williamsburg The more northern challenge in Williamsburg is one of two that is not scored based on time. This challenge has you fighting on a bridge, with a few floating islands nearby, as enemies and traffic spawn in. Your goal is to take out all the enemies while taking as few hits as possible. Each hit will add a point to your score, so the lower your score, the better. Watch out for shooters, as well as when lanes of traffic on the bridge light up to indicate a car will be coming in that lane.
Here are the requirements for each rank: Gold: 0 Silver: <3 Bronze: >3 Grave Decision – Williamsburg This challenge is basically the easier version of Road Rage. The parameters are exactly the same – don’t get hit. This time, you’re fighting in a graveyard against the usual enemies. Play it safe, dodge well, and keep an eye out around halfway through as Mysterio himself will show up to add even more chaos to the equation.
Here are the requirements for each rank: Gold: 0 Silver: <3 Bronze: >3 Fear of Heights – Downtown Brooklyn This is a simple challenge in concept, but the timing is quite tight if you don’t really optimize your strategy. Positioned on a rooftop, you need to knock the specified number of enemies off the edge as fast as you can. So, forget normal combos, gadgets, and most of your abilities here. In fact, the most efficient way to do this is to spam your swing kick move where you hold square while airborne. This launches enemies up and away better than any other move you have. Focus on the enemies close to the ledge and let others come to you, or combo them with two or more swing kicks to get them to the edge.
Here are the requirements for each rank: Gold: <1:30 Silver: <2:15 Bronze: >2:15 Punch Your Ticket – Downtown Queens Your challenge here is to eliminate a number of Brute enemies specifically, though other enemies will appear as well. This is all while a train will occasionally spawn and drive through the arena wherever you happen to be at the time. You get a good amount of warning by seeing the green tracks before the train itself comes, which you need to use to your advantage to bait Brutes into the tracks for easy KOs.
Here are the requirements for each rank: Gold: <2:00 Silver: <3:20 Bronze:3:20 Grand Finale – Downtown Brooklyn Once all other challenges are complete, you get one last mission to wrap up this story and get to the bottom of this little mystery once and for all. This is more of a boss battle and not a challenge, so there are no medals or time requirements. Finishing this quest also unlocks the Smoke and Mirrors Suit for Miles.
Editors' Recommendations The PS5 games with the best graphics The best PS5 games for 2023 All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond All Word of Power locations in Alan Wake 2 All nursery rhyme solutions in Alan Wake 2 Comic Book Movies Marvel Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming While the first Alan Wake game certainly had plenty of scares and horror in it, the mechanics were not as strictly of the survival horror variety. Alan Wake 2 has gone fully in this direction, however, with a much darker tone, disturbing imagery, and restrictive combat mechanics that sustain the tension when The Taken attack.
Aside from limited ammo, low health, and tough enemies to bring down, a key aspect of survival horror games is an inventory system. The first game let you hold essentially as much ammo, batteries, and weapons as you wanted in each chapter, but the sequel introduces a grid system that will look familiar to Resident Evil fans. Just like Resident Evil, your inventory starts off quite small, but you can see there is plenty of space for it to grow. There are specific items hidden in and around Bright Falls that can let you expand your carrying capacity, but many are well hidden in dark corners. Here are the locations of every inventory upgrade in Alan Wake 2.
All inventory upgrades Gaming FBI agent Saga Anderson and her partner, Alex Casey, are called into Bright Falls to investigate a murder committed by a strange group calling themselves the Cult of the Trees. These dangerous cultists are your main enemy in Alan Wake 2, and they put up quite a fight despite mostly using basic tools as weapons. They seem mindless and primitive, but the fact that they have a series of Cultist Stashes hidden all around the world suggests otherwise. These treasure troves are very well hidden, and they're protected with a small puzzle to try and prevent those who may stumble upon one from grabbing all the goodies inside. You'll find yourself short on supplies essentially all the time in Alan Wake 2, so scooping up some extra ammo and batteries is always welcome. Here is where you can find all the Cultist Stashes in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them.
All Cultist Stash locations There are a total of 21 Cultist Stashes to find and unlock in Alan Wake 2. Each zone has its own set to find, and they all have different puzzles you need to solve to open them. None are missable, but some can't be obtained until you make story progress or get specific tools.
Bright Falls Cult Stashes The first Cult Stash you can find comes as soon as you reach the town of Bright Falls for the first time. Instead of going straight to your destination down the block, turn around and head toward the dead end. Behind the truck will be a big locked box. To open this one, all you need to do is play a little game of Simon Says. The keypad will flash three buttons in a sequence that you simply need to repeat to open the box and grab the loot.
Gaming Dr. Connors, aka The Lizard, is forced back into his reptile state after Kraven injects him with his old serum in Marvel's Spider-Man 2. This would be bad enough, but he's also the only one who knows the truth about the symbiote and how to potentially get it off of Peter. Before that can happen, you need to track him down and inject him with the cure, and your search begins at his home in Queens. While exploring Connors' home, you discover that he had his own laboratory built underneath it for his experiments. Naturally, he wanted to keep this secret and put a passcode on the entrance. There's a small puzzle to uncover the code, and this isn't a puzzle you can skip. Here's how to open the lab.
How to open the Lizard's lab After exploring Connors' home and finding the panel to the lab, you will see a screen with four colored panels with one to four dots on each in order. Each one plays a tone, so the code is asking you to find the right musical tone. The clue here is the sticker of the barn on the upper right. If you visited the baby's room on the upper floor, you will have heard the Old MacDonald song when interacting with a toy in the room. That's the tone you need to recreate. The correct order to press the keys is 4,4,4,1.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
