Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides All photo-op locations in Spider-Man 2 By Jesse Lennox Close Get me pictures of Spider-Man! Well, actually, in Spider-Man 2 you never actually have to snap any pics of either Spider-Man. As established in the first game, Peter has already moved on from his job as a photographer for the Bugle and is focused completely on science (when not saving the day, of course). When that doesn’t work out well enough to pay the bills, he falls back on his old freelance photography gig to help make ends meet by going to key spots around the map to snap some shots to sell. These are among the most numerous icons you will see pop up on your map as you play, and while each one only rewards two City Tokens for completing them, they take a few seconds at most to get the perfect shot. Let’s take a tour of the city to find all the photo-op locations in Spider-Man 2.
All photo-op locations Sony Interactive Entertainment Photo-ops will populate the map in batches as you go through the game, but ultimately, there will be 23 unique spots you will need to stop and get a picture of to complete the entire quest. To snap the perfect picture, swipe down on the touchpad to open up your camera app when near the target area and look for whatever subject you need to capture. This will be obvious in nearly all situations, such as the above mascots, or a piece of art, or even entire buildings. The camera itself will help you as well. If you’re in range, the text will let you know if the subject is in view, obscured, or in focus. Once the ring is green, that shot will count and you can hit R1 to take the shot. After each one, you get a little bit of context and dialogue about whatever it is you are submitting.
Because photo-ops are the most numerous “collectible,” they will appear in every borough in Spider-Man 2.
 They will be marked by a blue camera icon on the map if you get within a few blocks of them. These are not character-specific, either, so you can make a pit stop to collect these regardless of whether you’re playing as Peter or Miles. Here’s how many appear in each district: Downtown Brooklyn – 3 Williamsburg – 1 Little Odessa – 3 Downtown Queens – 1 Astoria – 2 Financial District – 1 Chinatown – 2 Greenwich – 2 Hell’s Kitchen – 1 Midtown – 2 Upper West Side – 1 Central Park – 2 Upper East Side – 1 Harlem – 1 Unlike other collectibles or side objectives like Marko’s Memories or Mysteriums, there’s no “final” part or ultimate reward for doing all the photo-ops. You do get one final call to kind of wrap up the little relationship you had with your contact at the newspaper, and, of course, XP and Tokens, but nothing unique beyond that.
Editors' Recommendations All Gold Ball locations in Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond All Word of Power locations in Alan Wake 2 Where to find all inventory upgrades in Alan Wake 2 All stash locations in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them Comic Book Movies Marvel Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming Dr. Connors, aka The Lizard, is forced back into his reptile state after Kraven injects him with his old serum in Marvel's Spider-Man 2. This would be bad enough, but he's also the only one who knows the truth about the symbiote and how to potentially get it off of Peter. Before that can happen, you need to track him down and inject him with the cure, and your search begins at his home in Queens. While exploring Connors' home, you discover that he had his own laboratory built underneath it for his experiments. Naturally, he wanted to keep this secret and put a passcode on the entrance. There's a small puzzle to uncover the code, and this isn't a puzzle you can skip. Here's how to open the lab.
How to open the Lizard's lab After exploring Connors' home and finding the panel to the lab, you will see a screen with four colored panels with one to four dots on each in order. Each one plays a tone, so the code is asking you to find the right musical tone. The clue here is the sticker of the barn on the upper right. If you visited the baby's room on the upper floor, you will have heard the Old MacDonald song when interacting with a toy in the room. That's the tone you need to recreate. The correct order to press the keys is 4,4,4,1.
Gaming Everyone knows the iconic Spider-Man suit. The red-and-blue spandex uniform has been iterated on and altered hundreds of times over the course of decades, leading to some similar and some very different designs. Spider-Man 2 introduces Venom and the symbiote suit to the mix as a plot point, but there are almost 70 total suits from various comics, shows, and movies to unlock and wear between Peter pParker and Miles Morales. Unlocking them is one thing, but changing between them, and their new styles, is another. With this guide, you will be able to change your spider style as fast as our heroes when duty calls.
How to change suits Once you've snagged your first additional suit and used some Tokens to unlock it, changing between them is a breeze. Simply open your menu, go to the Suits tab, and highlight the one you want to wear. If you want to switch between Peter and Miles, simply hit L2 or R2 to cycle between the Spider-Men since each has their own unique set of suit options. Press X on the suit you want to wear and -- bam! -- your Spider-Man is now decked out in a new style. However, that's not all. Many suits have additional styles you can unlock by spending some Tech Parts. These give you three additional color options for that specific suit to further customize your look.
Gaming Super Mario Bros. Wonder is taking the series back to its 2D roots with a new and exciting art style and a ton of new mechanics. Alongside new power-ups and badges, this title has perhaps the largest amount of collectibles and hidden secrets of any game in the series. Between all the Wonder Seeds, Wonder Flowers, Flower Coins, and more, there's no shortage of things to do as you run, jump, and flip your way through all the various worlds. Among all the playable characters to choose from, one non-playable character makes his triumphant return. Captain Toad has managed to make his way to the Flower Kingdom, but this intrepid explorer is not so easy to find. Each time you interact with him, he will reward you with some Flower Coins and a hint at an upcoming world, so let's hunt down all his locations in Super Mario Wonder.
All Captain Toad locations Captain Toad appears in five unique spots on the Super Mario Bros. Wonder world map. Talking to him at each spot will give you a little bit more of his story, plus the aforementioned rewards.
First Captain Toad location Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
