Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Steam Replay 2022: what it is and how to see it By Jacob Roach Close Value introduced the Steam Replay recaps for the first time in 2022, following in the footsteps of year-end roundups like Spotify Wrapped and Reddit Recap.
 Steam Replay shows your hours played, your most played games, the achievements you’ve unlocked, and much more.
How to see your Steam Replay 2022 What’s included in Steam Replay 2022? Steam Replay 2022 badge How to share your Steam Replay 2022 We’re going to walk you through how to see your first Steam Replay in 2022. The recap is tied with Steam’s Winter Sale , so you browse some of the games on sale after taking a look back at the year.
How to see your Steam Replay 2022 Image used with permission by copyright holder When you log into Steam, you’ll see a notification to view your Replay on your desktop. If you missed the notification or if you want to see your Steam Replay again, follow these steps: Go to the Steam Replay website.
Log into your Steam account.
It’s really as simple as that. Once you see your Steam Replay, you can share it with friends based on your privacy settings at the top of the screen. You can keep the list private, share it out to friends only, or share a public link that anyone can view.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3: best settings, benchmarks, and more AMD’s FSR 3 will finally get a chance to shine in Starfield What’s included in Steam Replay 2022? Image used with permission by copyright holder Steam Replay shows an overwhelming amount of information, which is great if you’re primarily a PC player. For overall stats, you can see the number of games you played, including new games and demos, the number of achievements you’ve unlocked, and how often you played with a keyboard and mouse versus a keyboard.
Valve also includes several stats to see how you stack up to the rest of the Steam community, including achievements, number of games you’ve played, and your longest play streak. More interesting are the percentages of new releases played by the community. A massive 64% of players played games released in the last one to seven years, while 19% of games were older than eight years and 17% were games released during 2022. You can see your personal stats against the community here, as well.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Further down the list, you can see stats for your most played games, including playtime by month and the achievements you earned. Steam Replay actually includes a timeline at the bottom of the list that shows you which games you played each month throughout the year. And for Steam Deck owners, there are a few stats for Valve’s handheld, too.
Steam Replay 2022 badge Image used with permission by copyright holder Steam includes badges that raise your profile experience, and they’re a staple of any large Steam event. Steam Replay 2022 has a badge as well, but Valve doesn’t make that clear upfront. The Steam Replay 2022 badge awards 50 XP for your Steam profile, and it’s easy to get.
All you need to do is view your Steam Replay, either in a browser or through Steam itself. You’ll automatically see the Steam Replay 2022 badge pop up in your inventory afterward.
How to share your Steam Replay 2022 Image used with permission by copyright holder You can share your Steam Replay by clicking the Share button at the top of the screen. There are a couple of different ways to share from here, though. Valve provides three image summaries that include your high-level stats. These images are in different formats depending on if you want to share them to Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat, or other social media platforms.
Because these summaries are just images, you can share them regardless of your profile’s privacy settings. If you want to share your full Steam Replay, you’ll either need to set your profile to Friends Only or Public.
You can then grab a link to send out or post your Replay to your Steam Friends Activity feed.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy A typo is ruining this $700 Asus motherboard — but there’s a fix Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why GPU prices and availability (Q4 2023): How much are GPUs today? Gaming PC Gaming Computing AMD hasn't done much with its laptop GPUs this generation, but that's changing. The company revealed the new Radeon RX 7900M, which is a mobile GPU that's squarely targeting the performance of Nvidia's RTX 4080.
Although AMD announced laptop GPUs at the beginning of the year, we haven't seen them in very many laptops. It appears that's changing. The RX 7900M is arriving first in the Alienware m18 laptop alongside AMD's Ryzen 9 7945HX processor. AMD hasn't said if we'll see more laptops with the GPU yet, but it looks like we should only expect it high-end, desktop replacement-class machines.
Computing Following some angry posts on Reddit, Valve has confirmed that using AMD's new Anti-Lag+ feature in Counter-Strike 2 can result in a ban. The official X/Twitter account for the game confirmed that AMD customers using Anti-Lag+ will be banned, as it tampers with the files of the game.
https://twitter.com/CounterStrike/status/1712875606776729832 Computing Just as we started getting excited at the prospect of a Steam Deck 2, it now seems that gamers will have to wait a lot longer for the handheld. According to a recent statement, Valve is not looking to release the new Steam Deck for at least a couple more years. Will the console be able to stay competitive against its rivals? Pierre-Loup Griffais, the designer of Steam Deck and a rep for Valve, spoke to The Verge and revealed some information about the future of the gaming handheld. While the company has plans to upgrade, it's playing it safe and doesn't see that happening until late 2025 at the very least -- but it could be even longer than that.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
