Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Baldur’s Gate 3 review: staggering RPG opens up a world of possibilities By Andrew Zucosky Close $60.00 Deep character creation Multilayered story Rich world Incredible player freedom Impactful choices Underwhelming finale After pouring over 150 hours into Baldur’s Gate 3 , I can’t wait to start all over.
Choose your character Ever wonder why we’re here? Roll for initiative You have chosen wisely Larian Studios’ megasuccessful CRPG is so engrossing that I could not stop thinking about its endless possibilities while it was in my hands. All of the character builds I wanted to try, all the companions I needed to spend more time with, and all the choices I did not make still gnaw at my mind like a tadpole burrowing into my cerebellum. And judging by audience reaction over the past month , I’m not alone.
Baldur’s Gate 3 , a daunting game in a genre that was previously easy to write off as “niche,” has become the latest watercooler video game.
Where to find Benryn and Mirileth’s dowry in Baldur’s Gate 3 How to change your appearance in Baldur’s Gate 3 All romanceable characters in Baldur’s Gate 3 and how to romance them And I just think that’s magical.
Choose your character To create a strong foundation with which to build a massive RPG, Larian Studios excelled at converting the 5th Edition ruleset of Dungeons & Dragons into Baldur’s Gate 3 with very little deviation. All of the 12 base classes are present, with at least three subclasses per class, as well as 11 races, along with their own subraces. This is where your adventure actually begins; not with your first roll or first conversation, but with creating your own character.
 Customizing your avatar in Baldur’s Gate 3 can possibly take two hours for some people to do. Players are given a dizzying amount of options to choose from, and many of them are not locked behind binary notions like gender either. This gives players complete freedom to create exactly the character that they want to spend the next 100 hours with.
Larian Studios If creating a custom character is not something you are interested in, there are six pre-generated characters to choose from, all with their own personal backstories and desires. There is also a seventh origin character, but they are really just a custom character with a premade backstory. These six characters are the foundation and spine of Baldur’s Gate 3 — they are the reason to keep playing, and the reason for potential heartbreak.
All characters that you can speak to, especially the origin characters, are beautifully voice-acted, as well as motion-captured by the actors themselves. Everyone oozes with personality and personal ticks and quirks that make them so believable and alive. Each of them has their own reasons why they stick together, and it is up to the players to find out who they really are. Standouts for me personally are Astarion, the sassy elf vampire who always had something witty to say, and Karlach the tiefling who would have a heart of gold if it wasn’t replaced by a literal bomb from the Hells.
Following their stories was my main motivation while playing. I wanted to see where they would end up after all of this, I wanted to hear them express their opinions on what was happening before them, I wanted to fall in love with them. And, yes, I did.
Ever wonder why we’re here? The story of Baldur’s Gate 3 runs parallel with most campaigns found in Dungeons & Dragons.
 It starts slow and simple, and then explodes into something grander. The player character is survivor of an abduction by a mysterious race known as the Illithid, creatures with psychic powers and tentacles on their faces. They have implanted a tadpole into the hero’s brain that is supposed to turn them into an Illithid, but for some reason, that process has been halted. With a crew of colorful companions at their side, it’s up to them to jump down a rabbit hole of mysteries and save the day.
That premise blossoms out to a variety of factions of varying trustworthiness, new major characters popping in and out in each act, and some deep philosophical conundrums. The layers can feel overwhelming at times, but many of them are strongly connected to fantasy archetypes that make them easier to grasp if you have a basic understanding of the genre and its storytelling tricks.
Larian Studios Act 1 is basically a 30-hour tutorial level — and I don’t mean that as a slight. The first act of Baldur’s Gate 3 drops (literally) players into the countryside right outside the acclaimed city. It’s sprawling, almost a full game all its own, and yet it gives a taste of everything still to come. Even as an introduction, I can’t imagine many players having the exact same story.
The second act, on the other hand, is where the hand of the Dungeon Master comes in to stop the party from goofing around. It’s a stark contrast to Act 1: directed, focused, and very plot-heavy. This is when choices and actions matter. Dire consequences happen here and can literally change the rest of your characters’ stories. It’s a refreshing change of pace after spending seven levels and 50 hours in the Sword Coast. Everything that I learned, every tactic I tested, and every piece of loot I earned (or stole) from Act 1 was put to good use in Act 2.
It all comes to a head in a sweeping final chapter that brings in even more layers in. There were many times I was out following one quest and I bumped into two other quests I was going to do later, all the while accidentally completing another quest that I hadn’t even known I started. It can feel overwhelming, but it’s also where Baldur’s Gate 3 is at its most rewarding. This was when my character was at its strongest, and where all my build planning was finally put to proper use Larian Studios It’s huge, and the one place you might experience some performance struggles. My PC struggled to keep up at times, crashing once during the final stretch. Not bad for a 150-hour game, all things considered.
It all builds to a finale that doesn’t quite feel as grand as the adventure leading up to it. There’s a properly cinematic final boss to vanquish, but some final revelations leave some logical questions that already have the game’s community torn. Though what’s more disappointing is how it all unceremoniously ends after the final fight. There is a brief — and I really mean brief — moment with your party before the credits roll. There is no time for a proper goodbye or even an epilogue. I spent countless hours with these characters. Despite all the high-stakes plot points, they’re the real heart of the story. So it’s disappointing that they only get a chance to take a quick bow onstage right before the curtains swiftly fall and the houselights turn back on.
Roll for initiative Baldur’s Gate 3 uses the rules of Dungeons & Dragons to build out the core combat and skill checks. It’s not a complete mirror of the tabletop game , but it is one of the closest I have seen that still understands that it is a video game. Some tweaks have to be made in order for some of these classes to feel better with a mouse and keyboard (or a gamepad, as the controller support is surprisingly well-built here) instead of dice. This means that any class you choose will have a variety of options for you in and out of combat. It’s done wonders for the Monk class and allowed the Thief subclass to really shine.
Larian doesn’t penalize a player who wants to think far outside the box.
With all of its complex systems working in tandem, Baldur’s Gate 3 feels like it has countless choices and opportunities. The whole world can be shaped by the player to a great extent. It supports a more standard approach if you just want to run up to a goblin and smash them with an ax, but it also gets incredibly creative. Players can interact with crates and barrels to create chokepoints ahead of battles or as an improvised platform to gain elevation. Spells or items can be used to create a puddle of water that can be electrified or frozen to do devastating damage to your foes.
When playing, I’m able to get creative in ways that most games would never allow. I can shoot a teleporting arrow to the top of a keep that is filled with guards and traps instead of walking through the front door. Most bosses can be immediately defeated by having a rogue place 10 explosive kegs around them and then detonating them with a wizard’s fire spell. Sorry, no dramatic villain speech for you; it’s Wizard Time.
Larian Studios Baldur’s Gate 3 fully understands that many people will play this way and welcomes them to do so with open arms. Ask any Dungeon Master and they will tell you wild ways that their players overcame their challenges. Similarly, Larian doesn’t penalize a player who wants to think far outside the box. You will get the same amount of experience points from duking it out old-fashioned style, or from rolling a high charisma check to convince the enemy to give up. At every challenge, there’s a full toolbelt of options to choose from. It is up to the player to figure out the solution, as simple or impractical as it may be.
You have chosen wisely There are a wealth of choices to be made throughout the adventure to shape the story. When you compare your playthrough with a friend, you might find that your world is very different from theirs. Your party members can even be drastically different from other playthroughs. Not just in the sense of who lives and who dies, but who they become. Shadowheart, Astarion, Wyll, and the rest are all going through critical moments of their lives. They are trying to better themselves to the best of their abilities, but they can easily be led astray, and they can end their journeys worse off than when they started. Sometimes they can fall down a dark path by your suggestion, or by you not intervening to stop them.
Baldur’s Gate 3 does not give you a binary “Good Ending” or “ Bad Ending ” for everyone.
It’s an adventure meant to be shared.
Not every choice completely changes the wider world; sometimes they just reinforce the character you want to be. During my playthrough, I encountered a nasty necromancer, filled with ego and self-righteous importance, who demanded that I do a task for him. Playing a necromancer myself, I decided to attack him on the spot in a moment of territorial control. Sure enough, he blasted my party with a powerful poison spell that immediately killed two of my party members. But not my undead comrades; they’re immune to poison. The skeletons walked through the miasma of poison to finish off the necromancer and his undead cronies. Looks like I was the better necromancer after all! Days later, I was talking to my brother, only to discover that this necromancer was not only an incredibly hard fight for him, but that he also played a pivotal role in the main narrative in the game. A scene that Larian Studios planned out for me was completely missed because I got caught up in a bone-measuring contest with that necromancer. And I don’t regret my actions for a second.
Larian Studios That’s where the true joy of Baldur’s Gate 3 is found. It’s a huge game filled with secrets, scenes, and moments that are impossible to see in one playthrough. To learn about them all, you need to talk to your friends about how you killed the hag or how you found a legendary weapon hidden deep inside a monastery. It’s a collaborative narrative that has already become a beautiful focal point for players to gather around and have a social moment together. It’s an adventure meant to be shared.
Baldur’s Gate 3 was reviewed on PC.
Editors' Recommendations One of the best games of the year is finally coming to Xbox next month Will there be DLC for Baldur’s Gate 3? Is Baldur’s Gate 3 cross-platform? All companions in Baldur’s Gate 3 and how to get them How to level up fast in Baldur’s Gate 3: best ways to farm XP Apple Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming If you've been patiently waiting for Baldur's Gate 3 to arrive on PlayStation 5 while PC players got an early start, you won't have to wait much longer, unlike Xbox players. By now you don't need us to tell you just how amazing this game has shaped up to be, and are more than likely already prepared with your choice of character and just waiting for the green light to finally dive into this massive CRPG. But if your excitement has gotten the better of you and you don't know exactly when Baldur's Gate 3 will be ready to play, how to preload, or even if you can get in on the game a little early, we've got you covered.
Baldur's Gate 3 release time Baldur's Gate 3 will come out for all PS5 players officially on September 6 at 9 a.m. PT / 12 p.m. ET. Anyone who purchased the Digital Deluxe Edition gets 72 hours of early access, meaning you can start playing on September 3 instead.
Baldur's Gate 3 file size Gaming Larian Studios released Patch No. 1 for Baldur's Gate 3 today, almost a month after launch and following several hotfixes. It brings over 1,000 gameplay improvements and bug fixes to the highly successful RPG.
Baldur's Gate 3 has been a massive success since its August 3 release on PC, but it definitely hasn't been free of bugs and some other weird quirks. Four hotfixes have addressed some of the most pressing issues, but these patches are much larger in scale when it comes to what they add and fix. Larian says Patch 1 is primarily focused on game balance and flow tweaks, as well as bug fixes. There's nothing too glamorous or game-changing, but it should make playing Baldur's Gate 3 an even smoother experience.
A couple of these fixes have to do with the game's romance system. A bug causing the conclusion to Shadowheart's romance to not activate properly has been fixed, and animations have been added so taller characters don't awkwardly kiss or hug shorter ones anymore. Fixes have been made in preventing bugs at the Morphic Pool, an issue where loot wouldn't appear on corpses in multiplayer, and some Game Over screens problematically appearing where they shouldn't have. There are way too many tweaks and bug fixes to list here, so we recommend going to the Baldur's Gate 3 website to check out the full list.
Unfortunately, game performance improvements aren't part of Patch 1, as Larian Studios is saving those for Patch 2. But it says that we "won’t be waiting long" for those. Baldur's Gate 3 is available now for PC, comes to PlayStation 5 on September 6, and will launch on Xbox Series X/S before the end of the year.
Gaming After years in early access only on PC, Baldur's Gate 3 is finally here in its final state. This CRPG has the internet buzzing about just how long and varied the experience can be. What's even better is that it can be played in co-op, though with limited cross-platform features. Those looking at the game may notice that there is only ever mention of a PC and PlayStation 5 version, which obviously raises the question about Xbox consoles. Baldur's Gate 3 doesn't have any exclusivity deal with PlayStation, so why isn't it on Xbox, and will it ever be? Will Baldur's Gate 3 come to Xbox? https://twitter.com/Cromwelp/status/1685821620756021249?s=20 The latest update from Larian states that it will be able to release Baldur's Gate 3 on Series X and S sometime before the end of 2023, but with the S version not having split-screen coop.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
