Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Alone in the Dark: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more By Jesse Lennox Close Horror games have an interesting lineage. Most gamers’ first real exposure to what we consider the template for “modern” horror was the original Resident Evil or, perhaps, Silent Hill.
However, even those games had clear influences. One was a somewhat obscure Japanese game called Sweet Home, but in terms of 3D horror, Alone in the Dark was an experience like nothing else. Based on the unique cosmic horror writing of H.P. Lovecraft, this series, unfortunately, saw a fast fall from grace with the arrival of its sequels.
Release date Platforms Trailers Gameplay Preorder Despite a few leaks, most were still caught off guard by the announcement that Alone in the Dark would not only be coming back, but the new game would apparently be a reboot of the series that aims to take it back to its survival-horror roots. There are nearly as many mysteries surrounding the revival of this historic IP as there are in its narrative, but we’ve braved the dark corners of the internet to bring you everything we know about Alone in the Dark.
Release date Image used with permission by copyright holder Originally set to release on October 25, 2023, Alone in the Dark was delayed to January 16, 2024.
Platforms Image used with permission by copyright holder Alone in the Dark is set to come exclusively to current-generation consoles, meaning PS5 and Xbox Series X /S, as well as PC. The Switch was not listed and likely will be left behind with the previous generation.
Trailers The announcement of the reboot came with a full-reveal trailer to dissect. It opens with a haunting rendition of The House of the Rising Sun as a little girl hangs various dolls in her room. She sits on her bed and pulls a noose over her own head, though the other end isn’t tied to anything.
We cut to various characters speaking about the area and people, along with some disturbing imagery. A man, who seems to be some kind of psychiatrist or doctor, asks about the main character’s “condition.” Some slow sections of gameplay cycle through, showing different mechanics and systems of the game as a preacher delivers an impassioned speech. We close on a woman lounging with a cigarette who welcomes us “to the madhouse.” As cryptic as that all is, much more was detailed in the accompanying PlayStation Blog post.
 Here, we first learn that this new imagining of Alone in the Dark will be written by the writer of SOMA and Amnesia: The Dark Descent, Mikael Hedberg, and monster designs by frequent Guillermo del Toro collaborator Guy Davis.
The blog describes the title as a mixture of psychological horror and Southern Gothic, set in the 1920s. You can play as either Edward Carnby, the original series’ protagonist, or Emily Hartwood in a quest to uncover what secrets are hidden in the Darceto mansion asylum and try to find Emily’s missing uncle.
Not much else about the specifics of the narrative is known, only that it will be a completely original story that uses characters, locations, and themes from the original trilogy of games.
One extra tidbit revealed was that there will also be a prologue chapter called Grace in the Dark, starring Grace from Alone in the Dark 2, however, for now, that demo is exclusive to those who played it at Gamescom 2022.
At the THQ Nordic Showcase, we got two new trailers focusing purely on the characters delivering little monologues. The first was David Harbour speaking as Edward Carnby in a chilling performance.
The second featured Jodie Comer’s performance as Emily Hartwood.
Gameplay Image used with permission by copyright holder The trailer did show some snippets of gameplay, but again, the blog sheds some more clarity on how the game will play.
We see plenty of exploration and conversations with the two characters, though no mention of any dialogue systems. It would make sense, since Edward is a detective, for that to be included, but for now, that’s still in the dark.
Puzzle-solving will be a major component of the game. Two tiny moments from the trailer show some sort of breaker or switch puzzle, as well as one where players will need to rotate three plates on a wall.
Aside from solving puzzles and getting lost in dark, creepy environments, Alone in the Dark is also a third-person shooter. Again, glimpses of this are very brief, but it looks like standard survival-horror-style aiming and shooting. There is one moment of melee combat, too, though we guess that won’t be your first choice in facing off against the grotesque creatures shown. They do mention that ammo will be a rare resource, so having a backup of any kind will probably come in handy.
Preorder An entire trailer was dedicated to the Collector’s Edition preorder for Alone in the Dark, and yet still didn’t give us a release date. Preorders are up on every console and PC platform, as well as online retailers. There are only three versions to take note of, Standard, Digital Deluxe, and the Collector’s Edition. Let’s investigate the contents of each.
The Standard Edition will cost $60 and include: preorder bonus – Derceto 1992 costume pack The Digital Deluxe version is only a bit more at $65 and includes: Everything from the Standard Edition Vintage Horror Filter Pack Director’s Commentary Mode Finally, the massive Collector’s Edition will cost a full $200. For that price you get: Everything from the Digital Deluxe edition The Dark Man -Statue 26cm / 10in height Game on PS5, Xbox Series X, or PC Alone in the Dark Steelbook Ostadte – Miniature 10cm/ 4in height Do Not Disturb – Doorhang Derceto 1030 Wallsticker Set Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more GTA 6: release date speculation, trailer, news, rumors, and more RoboCop: Rogue City: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Dishonored 3: release date window, rumors, and more Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Tech News Gaming Spider-Man is one of the most recognizable superheroes in the world. His popularity in media is hard to overstate, as he is the focus of ongoing films, comics, multiple animated series, and, of course, video games. The web-slinger has been on home consoles ever since the Atari days, and each new generation has given us better and better games. The most recent game, Marvel's Spider-Man, which paired the comic book hero with the perfect developer (Insomniac Games) to handle this acrobatic, sarcastic neighborhood hero, was a smash-hit in every respect. Critics praised it, fans loved it, and it sold like crazy. Plus, it probably was a major contributing factor in Sony's outright purchase of the studio. Naturally, we all knew a sequel had to be coming.
When the PlayStation 5 launched, we got a standalone expansion of sorts in Spider-Man: Miles Morales, which let us play as the new spider on the block in his own story. Now the focus has been set on the proper, full sequel, which looks to take everything from the original game and the expansion and combine it all into a truly amazing new Spider-Man (Spider-Men?) title. We've only had a handful of looks at the game, but we've used our spider senses to untangle all the information there is about Marvel's Spider-Man 2.
Release date Gaming The Elder Scrolls 6 was first revealed five years ago with a 36-second announcement trailer. Unfortunately, there hasn't been a lot of concrete news on the title since.
Now that Bethesda has launched Starfield — the developer's first brand-new IP in 25 years — with great success despite plenty of criticism on the game's advertised scale versus its gameplay, it goes without saying that the studio will be shifting to the next installment in the Elder Scrolls series. The new title will be building off the wild success of its predecessor Skyrim (which made the cut for Digital Trends' top 50 video games of all time) and MMO The Elder Scrolls Online.
Gaming Some fans never thought it would happen, but the seemingly impossible has been achieved. Super Mario RPG, a remake of the Squaresoft-developed Super Mario RPG: The Legend of the Seven Stars, has been officially announced. Many people will be more familiar with Mario's two main RPG series, the Paper Mario and Mario and Luigi games, but it was this collaboration that was the plumber's first foray into the RPG genre. Since Nintendo didn't own the IP, it wasn't able to continue the series itself, leading to those other series that took many elements from Super Mario RPG. This classic holds a special place in many gamers' hearts, as it served as the introduction to RPGs for many gamers and includes a cast of unique characters we haven't seen since. Get ready to hit those action-commands and ensure your Flower Points are full as we go through everything we know about Super Mario RPG.
Release date Super Mario RPG is set to arrive on November 11, 2023.
Platforms Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
