Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Batman: Arkham Knight review Batman: Arkham Knight feels as fresh as a gritty, crime-ridden metropolis can By Danny Cowan Close $60.00 Mind-bending, thoughtful narrative Batmobile provides new challenges and gameplay twists Tons upon tons of side missions Combat is too complex for its own good Many Batmobile sequences come up short 2013’s Batman: Arkham Origins showed a side of Batman that players hadn’t seen in previous Arkham games, and it wasn’t pretty. Compared to the landmark Arkham Asylum and the open-world insanity of Arkham City , Arkham Origins felt safe, contrived, and very much like a stopgap release.
Over the interim year-and-a-half leading up to the launch of Arkham Knight , Origins ‘ failings made me doubt whether the Arkham series formula was worth revisiting. Within its first hour, Arkham Knight squashed my concerns, demonstrating that the creative team at developer Rocksteady (who, it should be pointed out, did not create Arkham Origins ) still knows how to innovate within the action genre in meaningful, unexpected ways while delivering a dynamite storyline.
How to find the Giant Squid in Hogwarts Legacy Gotham Knights Knighthood guide: how to unlock the glider and other traversal abilities Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic remake reportedly shifts developers Putting the “Dark” in “Dark Knight” Arkham Knight centers around returning Arkham Asylum villain the Scarecrow, who threatens to flood Gotham City with a nerve gas that triggers uncontrollable, animalistic violence in its victims. With Gotham’s citizens evacuated, Batman scours the city in search of the criminal element that remains.
Arkham Knight ‘s storyline is one of its greatest assets, and unfortunately, it’s difficult to discuss the narrative’s strengths without spoiling its central twist. It suffices to say that Batman spends the majority of the game battling his inner demons; the way in which Batman’s inner conflict manifests itself throughout the core campaign is remarkable, and it leaves a lasting impression.
Arkham Knight ‘s storyline frequently veers off into dark, unexpected territory, and its mechanics follow suit.
Road rage While exploring Arkham Knight ‘s expanded Gotham, the newly-pilotable Batmobile takes center stage, serving double-duty as both high-speed transport and an armored tank capable of leveling entire city blocks. Frequent Batmobile-based combat sequences feature throughout the game’s story missions, and the new mechanics introduced here are a surprisingly solid fit for the Arkham series. While squaring off against the Scarecrow’s armored tanks, you’ll find yourself dodging, counterattacking, and unleashing stored-up special moves unique to the Batmobile – a great analog to the complexity and flow of the series’ traditional melee mechanics.
Image used with permission by copyright holder While combat is a large focus for the Batmobile sequences, the game’s most memorable and successful moments involve merging the Batmobile with creative traversal challenges. At points, you’ll find yourself wondering how you can get the Batmobile up to a nearby rooftop or around an impassable blockade, and the solutions you’ll devise consist of equal parts mental gymnastics, driving prowess, and the simple thrill of launching a badass tank across gaping chasms.
Even without the Batmobile’s involvement, Arkham Knight ‘s puzzles are greatly improved over previous series entries. Rarely ever rote or mundane, Arkham Knight ‘s puzzles explore the game’s mechanics to their fullest, and will often leave you scratching your head until you figure out necessary combinations of environmental manipulation and Bat-gadgetry.
Combat Evolved Rocksteady’s “Freeflow” combat system returns in Arkham Knight , and it’s as fluid and intuitive as ever. With carefully timed strikes, Batman zooms from foe to foe in the game’s many crowded melee combat encounters, and pulling off unbroken strings of attacks remains quite satisfying.
Arkham Knight introduces a few new wrinkles to the formula; Batman can now pick up and use enemy weapons dropped on the battlefield, and environmental takedowns can knock out opponents in a single strike. Occasional team-up battles also introduce their own gameplay quirks, as Batman can take on foes alongside Robin, Catwoman, and other pals to crack criminal skulls as efficiently as possible.
Combat has so many options that you may become overwhelmed as fights increase in complexity during later story missions.
At this point in the series, combat has so many options that you may become overwhelmed as fights increase in complexity during later story missions. You’ll need to memorize the function of almost every button on your console’s controller in order to counter specific enemy attacks; while the game provides clear on-screen counterattack indicators, later battles require you to evade charging thugs, disable electrified foes, dodge blade swipes, stun shielded enemies, and disarm machine gunners – all in rapid sequence, and all requiring a different button or combination of buttons to execute.
Arkham Asylum ‘s combat feels downright primitive in comparison, but ultimately remains more focused and less chaotic than Arkham Knight gets by the end of its campaign.
The Batmobile can’t quite keep up with Batman’s agility, either. Vehicle combat sequences require a similar player skillset as melee battles, but the tank-like Batmobile isn’t nearly as graceful as encounters often demand. Play through Arkham Knight ‘s story missions on the default difficulty setting and you can expect to repeat later vehicle-based encounters many times over as surrounding tanks and drones overwhelm the Batmobile’s limited capabilities.
System overload As you approach the endgame, issues with the game’s graphical presentation begin to arise.
Arkham Knight seemingly makes a point of pushing out as much graphical detail as possible during open-world segments; as a result, key gameplay elements during enemy pursuits and close-quarters combat often become lost in a miasma of rain, sparks, neon lighting, and the choking clouds of debris the Batmobile leaves in its wake. This becomes especially frustrating during vehicle-based stealth sequences, which are easily the weakest of Arkham Knight ‘s story missions.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Really, Arkham Knight ‘s biggest flaws lie with its excesses. It’s a very pretty game, and it’s admirable that Rocksteady could pull off vehicle combat on such a grand scale while expanding its core Arkham mechanics.
Arkham Knight becomes frustrating, however, when you end up flipping the Batmobile because the screen is so overloaded with graphical detail that you can’t see where you’re going, or when you start dropping melee combos simply because you haven’t yet memorized a ninth or tenth button combination for a necessary counterattack. These moments lose sight of the series’ core strengths, overloading a mechanical foundation that’s already burdened with multiple layers from previous Arkham games.
Beautiful excess Despite the frustrations I experienced in the late-game story missions, Arkham Knight remains fun from start to finish, and the imposing amount of bonus content will keep you busy for dozens of hours afterward. The Riddler returns for another city-wide scavenger hunt, and he’s constructed several trap-laden racetracks for the Batmobile to take on. Supervillain guest stars are also scattered throughout the world of Arkham Knight , and hauling them back to Gotham City’s police department plays out over a series a self-contained side-missions that progress alongside the game’s core storyline.
Thanks to its many gameplay additions and expansive open world, Arkham Knight makes the series feel as fresh as it did in 2009 with the original release of Arkham Asylum.
 Despite its quirks, the Batmobile adds a refreshing degree of mechanical complexity, and other returning gameplay gimmicks get a similar upgrade, making Arkham Knight one of the smartest, most feature-packed action games I’ve played in the last year. For all my minor gripes, I enjoyed Arkham Knight ‘s story, and I can’t wait to dive back into Gotham City to clean up the streets. I’ll get you yet, Riddler.
This game was reviewed on Playstation 4 with a code provided by the publisher.
Highs Mind-bending, thoughtful narrative Batmobile provides new challenges and gameplay twists Tons upon tons of side missions Lows Combat is too complex for its own good Many Batmobile sequences come up short Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Gotham Knights is unplayable on Steam following latest update Gotham Knights character guide: Which hero should I pick? Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic remake reportedly delayed indefinitely Hollow Knight: Silksong will launch on Xbox Game Pass Action Games Comic Book Movies DC Comics Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming The new Batman Arkham series spinoff, Gotham Knights, is still set to release in October for Xbox Series X/S, Windows PC, and PlayStation 5, but it won't be showing up on last-gen consoles. The news comes as Warner Bros. Entertainment shared a new gameplay trailer for the superhero title, showing Nightwing and Red Hood in action.
Gotham Knights - Official Nightwing and Red Hood Gameplay Demo Gaming Fans of DC comics and superheroes will have at least one game they can look forward to this year. Gotham Knights, a co-op-focused game that leaves out Batman himself, finally has an October 25 release date.
https://twitter.com/GothamKnights/status/1501558438681317380?t=ka493l1nSh3pqavxqoa-fg&s=19 Gaming Welcome to Tristram, traveler. Whether you've been there before or it's your first time, Diablo II: Resurrected isn't going to give you a warm welcome, unless you consider the embrace of a burning demon warm, that is. This remake of the classic action RPG that took over the world of PC gaming over two decades ago has returned and is just as brutal and devilish as ever. The new coat of paint brings a fresh breath of life to this dying world, but the core of the game remains as it was all those years ago. Some mechanics and design decisions have aged better than others, but there's no denying this is a terrific way to reintroduce the Diablo style of game to a new generation.
Starting out a new action RPG is already hard enough, let alone one designed 20 years ago. Newer takes on the genre, and even the sequel Diablo 3, have refined a lot of the rough corners this influential game had. If the name wasn't a big enough clue, Diablo II: Resurrected is a tough-as-nails game. If you step foot in the wrong area unprepared, the hoards of monsters, demons, and other nightmares won't hesitate to rip your character apart. To make your opening hours go a bit smoother, check out this beginner's guide to Diablo II: Resurrected.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
