Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Mortal Kombat 1: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more By Jesse Lennox Close Are you ready to test your might? After a small leak and a couple of teases on Twitter, Mortal Kombat 1 has been confirmed to be the next entry in the best-selling fighting game series of all time. Developer NetherRealm typically alternates between franchises, so many people expected their next project to be a new Injustice since Mortal Kombat 11 was their last release in 2019. That is evidently not the plan, but this also isn’t the Mortal Kombat 12 that would logically follow. The series already saw something of a reboot with Mortal Kombat 9, so what’s going on with Mortal Kombat 1 ? Choose your fighter and memorize your fatality button inputs, because we’re breaking down all the gory details of Mortal Kombat 1.
Release date Platforms Trailers Gameplay Roster Preorder Release date Image used with permission by copyright holder Mortal Kombat 1 will be ready for kombat on September 19, 2023. However, there will also be an early access period for those who purchase either the Premium or Kollector’s Edition of the game. This early access will begin on September 14 at 10 a.m. PT.
Platforms This fighter is ditching last-gen consoles and will launch on PS5 , Xbox Series X /S, PC, and, most surprisingly, Nintendo Switch.
Trailers The announcement trailer for Mortal Kombat 1 sets up the scenario for the game following the story events of Mortal Kombat 11’s Aftermath DLC. If you haven’t been following the admittedly complex and somewhat convoluted lore, the gist is that Fire God Liu Kang beat both Shang Tsung and Kronika at the end of the DLC and reset the entire timeline back to the beginning. So, while technically a sequel to 11, Mortal Kombat 1 is also a soft reboot of the lore, making it far easier for newcomers to come in without having to worry about all the timeline/time travel elements introduced in 9, 10, and 11.
Mortal Kombat 1’s trailer opens with Liu Kang explaining his decision to create a “blank canvas” where people are free to choose whether to live in peace or in combat. As he continues, we see many of the iconic characters from the past in their original forms, including Raiden without any godly powers since those were passed to Liu Kang in Mortal Kombat 11.
 Of course, it wouldn’t be a Mortal Kombat game without showing Scorpion and Subzero about to face off. However, before any potential fights break out, an eclipse captures everyone’s attention. A portal opens and Shang Tsun appears and a montage of him absolutely brutalizing the cast ensues with the exception of Liu Kang who takes him down with what must be a future Fatality.
The Banished trailer from EVO 2023 showed a bit more of the actual story of Mortal Kombat 1 , plus some new characters. We focus first on the returning Reptile, followed by Ashrah, and Havik. Aside from some quick shots of the characters walking together through the forest, and Lieu Kang saying he needs to prepare them all for war, little about the actual plot was given.
The Gamescom trailer reveals what many probably expected – Outworlders are the cause of conflict yet again in this universe. General Shao in particular was highlighted as a potential main threat as he opposes Liu Kang’s rule. One new tidbit is that this time, when the Mortal Kombat tournament is being held, Raiden will be chosen as Earth realm’s champion.
Gameplay WB Games No gameplay was shown for Mortal Kombat 1 , but it will obviously be a fighting game at its core. You can expect a range of attacks, throws, special moves, Brutalities, and iconic Fatalities through specific directional and button combinations.
One major change NetherRealm has confirmed is what they’re calling the Kameo Fighter system. From the description, these sound like assist fighters in other fighting games, where you select a secondary character that you can call on to assist you during a match, but not directly control or swap between.
Mortal Kombat has always been known for a huge suite of additional modes, such as the Tower of Time from Mortal Kombat 11 where you can take on challenges with various rules and conditions to earn additional rewards or Koins to unlock them. None of these modes have been confirmed yet, but there hasn’t been an entry without some kind of alternate way to play.
Roster Warner Bros. Games The current confirmed roster for Mortal Kombat 1 includes: Liu Kang Scorpion Sub-Zero Kitana Mileena Kung Lao Raiden Johnny Cage Havik Ashrah Reptile Geras Li Mei Baraka Tanya Rain Smoke Kenshi Jax Kano Sindel General Shao Nitara ( played by Megan Fox ) Shang Tsung (preorder exclusive) Homelander Omni-man Peacemaker Quan Chi (DLC) Ermac (DLC) Takeda (DLC) We expect more fighters to be revealed over the months leading up to the launch and already know that at least six new characters are planned for the first DLC pack, three we still don’t know of yet.
Preorder WB Games If you’re ready to fight, you can preorder Mortal Kombat 1 right now.
The game has three editions to pick from, including the Standard, Premium, and Kollector’s edition. Here’s what each one gives you: Standard: ($70) Mortal Kombat 1 game Shang Tsung Beta access Premium: ($110) Everything from the Standard edition Kombat Pack (Jean-Claude Van Damme skin for Johnny Cage, early access to six DLC characters, and five Kameo fighters) 1,250 Dragon Krystals Kollector’s Edition ($250) Everything from the Premium edition 16.5″ Liu Kang sculpture Liu Kang character skin Three art prints Steelbook case Total of 2,700 Dragon Krystals Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more GTA 6: release date speculation, trailer, news, rumors, and more RoboCop: Rogue City: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Haunted Chocolatier: release date speculation, news, trailer, and more The best video games of September 2023: Starfield, Cyberpunk, and more Tech News Gaming After the Sim City franchise faded away, gamers were left with few options when it came to city-building simulations. That changed when Cities: Skylines came out. The first game was a smash hit, filling the void left by the pioneer of the genre - and in many ways even surpassing it. However, that game came out in 2015, and even the numerous updates and DLC packs added to the game could only extend its life so long. Now, Cities: Skylines 2 has been officially revealed and fans have already built up their hopes as high as skyscrapers. Have the developers designed the perfect system for this sequel to thrive and grow? Let's take a bird's-eye view and see what groundwork has been laid for Cities: Skylines 2.
Release date Cities: Skylines 2 will be fully constructed and ready to play on October 24, 2023 for PC, however, the console versions of the game have been delayed to sometime in spring 2024.
Platforms Gaming This article contains spoilers for Mortal Kombat 1.
Mortal Kombat 1’s story mode has a bombastic conclusion.
Thousands of characters from a multiverse of timelines face off against each other as Liu Kang and Shang Tsung from Mortal Kombat 11: Aftermath’s ending have their final battle. It has a fairly definitive conclusion, with Liu Kang winning and the multiverse continuing to exist, mostly in peace. When it comes to what’s next for the “new era” Liu Kang created, NetherRealm Studios does leave some plot points, especially in the canon Tower character endings, to potentially follow up in a sequel.
Some of the threads that NetherRealm can follow up on are character-specific, like Reptile looking for who was murdering Zaterrans who could turn human or Jax and Kenshi joining an Outworld-focused division of the FBI. Five narrative beats, in particular, could potentially set up the main conflicts of the game’s inevitable sequel. If a follow-up to Mortal Kombat 1’s story does come around, these are some developments that you should expect it to follow up on.
Lord Havik is coming for Liu Kang’s new era Throughout Mortal Kombat 1, Havik is a minor player in Liu Kang’s new era, serving as a grunt for Shang Tsung before getting part of his face melted off by Scorpion. It looks like this character introduced in Mortal Kombat: Deception will play a much more significant role in a Mortal Kombat 1 sequel, though. A post-credit scene in the game shows a Titan version of Havik, who likely is the master of his own timeline, walk in the aftermath of Mortal Kombat 1’s final battle.
After killing a Jax variant, he waxes poetic to evil-looking versions of Kenshi, Tanya, and Quan-Chi about how glorious it was to see warriors from across timelines all fighting in one place and how it ended too quickly. He concludes by saying: “Next time, it won’t.” It’s safe to assume that this version of the character, referred to in-game as “Lord Havik,” will be the next multiversal threat to Mortal Kombat’s timelines. He will surely create lots of chaos for the heroes.
Reiko is awakening Onaga Gaming The Dishonored series has always been a critical darling and it has cultivated a small, but passionate fanbase. The original game got some DLC, a sequel in Dishonored 2, and one last entry called Death of the Outsider in 2017, but since then the franchise has remained dormant. The studio's latest game, Deathloop, shares some DNA with Dishonored, but is certainly its own beast. However, since the success of that new IP far exceeded anything Dishonored had achieved, many fans felt we'd never return to Dunwall to see the conclusion of the story. Thanks to the recent leak of some court documents related to the Activision purchase by Xbox, which owns Dishonored publisher Bethesda, new hope has appeared for the existence of Dishonored 3.
Release window According to the leaked documents, which we should still take with skepticism until an official public statement is made, Dishonored 3 is currently planned for a "FY24E" release. FY24E is shorthand for Fiscal Year 2024, which runs between April 2024 and March 2025. Again, things are likely to change, if they haven't already, but this is at least a good starting point to predict the earliest we might see it.
Platforms Again, this is just speculation until the game is officially confirmed, but considering that Xbox owns publisher Bethesda, Dishonored 3 is almost certainly going to be an Xbox console exclusive with a PC port. It should also be available as a day one Game Pass title, as all Xbox first party titles are.
Trailers As mentioned, Dishonored 3 isn't even meant to be known about publicly yet, so no marketing exists for the game. All we have is the name.
Gameplay Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
