Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Dragon Age: Dreadwolf: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more By Jesse Lennox Close BioWare has had a rough few years. Following the critical and commercial success of Dragon Age: Inquisition , the studio moved on to Mass Effect: Andromeda and Anthem , two games that abandoned the tenets of previous BioWare titles under mounting publisher pressure.
Release date Platforms Trailers Gameplay Multiplayer DLC Preorder It’s been over six years since Inquisition , and although we know Dragon Age: Dreadwolf is in development, it’ll be a while before we see it. From the release date to the teaser trailer to any news and rumors we could find, here’s everything we know about Dragon Age: Dreadwolf.
Release date Image used with permission by copyright holder We’ve known that Dragon Age: Dreadwolf is in the works thanks to the 2018 Game Awards teaser and some concept art, but we knew not to expect it for a while, though. During a 2020 EA earnings call , teh company’s Blake Jorgensen said the following: “You should assume that there is Dragon Age out there, and we’ve talked about it publicly that it’s in the works, and it probably comes after fiscal ’22 … you should assume that it’s out there and plans are underway for that product, as well as some other products.” Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Marathon: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Haunted Chocolatier: release date speculation, news, trailer, and more Beyond that, it wasn’t until June 2022 that BioWare officially announced the game’s title as Dragon Age: Dreadwolf and confirmed that it wouldn’t be coming in 2022.
The latest blog post announced that the game has completed its Alpha milestone, which means the title is playable from start to finish. However, this doesn’t mean the game is as close to completion as you might think. This just means the team can focus more on visual fidelity, gameplay features, story pacing, and character progression.
Platforms Image used with permission by copyright holder Short of some art shown during EA Play 2020 — which we’ll get to next — EA hasn’t released much about Dragon Age: Dreadwolf.
During Gamescom 2020, though, we got another look.
Despite being four minutes long, the behind-the-scenes look doesn’t really say anything about Dragon Age: Dreadwolf.
The beginning of the video also mentions next-gen hardware, all but confirming Dragon Age: Dreadwolf will launch on PS5 and Xbox Series X |S. Being so late in the generation, it would also be safe to assume it won’t be coming to last-gen systems too.
Otherwise, the video offers a few glimpses at gameplay, as well as one particular returning character: Solas. This isn’t news necessarily — BioWare has been pretty forthcoming about Solas being a key character in the next game — but it’s nice to get confirmation.
Trailers BioWare showed off the first official teaser trailer for Dragon Age: Dreadwolf during The Game Awards 2020. The trailer shows off Solas and some of the characters you may be able to play as, set to the backdrop of a vibrant fantasy world teeming with color.
Otherwise, there was a trailer at The Game Awards in 2018, as well as a behind-the-scenes look during Gamescom 2020. Like most teasers, there isn’t much to go on in the trailer, short of a single piece of dialogue saying, “So, you found me at last. I suspect you have questions.” Accompanying this line is a tag that reads, “The Dread Wolf Rises.” You can see the teaser below.
We’re diving into some spoiler territory here , so if you’re interested in playing Dragon Age: Inquisition before the fourth entry in the series, skip ahead. The Dread Wolf in Dragon Age refers to the elven god Fen’Harel, with the “Dread Wolf” name showing up a lot during the Trespasser DLC for Inquisition.
 The lore is complex, to say the least, and users on Reddit have already started the long process of breaking down the trailer. In short, though, Solas, a companion in Inquisition, confesses to being Fen’Harel in the Trespasser DLC. He then explains the risks of the Inquisition becoming corrupt, before the Inquisitor is given a choice between stopping Solas or redeeming him. Solas also says the phrase, “I suspect you have questions.” Of course, we don’t know the plot of Dragon Age: Dreadwolf, but it’s clear Solas is at the center of it. Further confirming this, BioWare tweeted a handwritten letter from Solas inviting the Inquisitor to tea in celebration of Dragon Age: Inquisition ‘s fifth anniversary.
Happy 5th Birthday, Dragon Age: Inquisition.
pic.twitter.com/mTIRc5HfDM &mdash; BioWare (@bioware) November 18, 2019 The other thing the trailer touches on is red lyrium — in particular, a red lyrium idol from Dragon Age II.
If you haven’t played the second game, spoiler alert: After finding the idol with Varric and his brother Bartrand in the first act, it poisons Bartrand’s mind. We can clearly see the idol in the center of the mural, so although we don’t know what will happen in Dreadwolf, it’s likely going to involve Solas getting his hands on the corrupted idol.
While not a trailer, BioWare did post a community update that shared some interesting details on how they are crafting the narrative. They claim Dreadwolf will be a balance of giving answers to the long-running questions of the series, as well as a story that new players can get invested in.
Codex entries were heavily spoken about and serve as a way to give a deeper look into the world, locations, characters, and events of the Dragon Age world without interrupting the game. They will dynamically unlock as appropriate during the game, so you will never be overwhelmed with entries to read. They are also framed as in-world texts, such as letters or books, to keep the player invested in the world and role-playing aspects of the game.
Gameplay We don’t have any gameplay for Dragon Age: Dreadwolf yet, but EA has teased some concept art that provides a glimpse at what the game will look like.
During EA Play 2020, amid a hype reel for next-gen titles, EA chief studio officer Laura Miele said, “BioWare imagines and creates worlds where you become the hero of your own story,” against a backdrop of the images below. Although there were no direct references to Dragon Age 4, Miele talked about BioWare’s “fantasy worlds,” which is enough for us, at least.
Previous Next 1 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder If the above images aren’t from Dragon Age: Dreadwolf, they’re from some other epic fantasy RPG out of BioWare. Given that we know Dragon Age: Dreadwolf is in active development, though, it’s safe to assume they are from that game.
Some footage from Dragon Age: Dreadwolf may have spoiled what the game will actually play like when a user leaked it on Reddit.
 From the footage, the game is far more action-focused compared to the more slow, tactical style of the first game. The player will have normal attacks, as well as special moves, but the biggest change is the note that there will be no way to control your party outside of triggering certain abilities.
This footage appears legitimate, but even if it is, would be from an older build of the game, so plenty of things could already be changed.
Multiplayer Previously a Kotaku report stated that the next Dragon Age game will have live-service elements. This presumably comes from EA, which, in past earnings calls, has continued to stand behind games with a monetization life cycle after launch. Following the report, Casey Hudson tweeted the following: Reading lots of feedback regarding Dragon Age, and I think you’ll be relieved to see what the team is working on. Story &amp; character focused.
Too early to talk details, but when we talk about “live” it just means designing a game for continued storytelling after the main story.
&mdash; Casey Hudson (@CaseyDHudson) January 25, 2018 As a BioWare employee told Jason Schreier, “Dragon Age games shift more than other games,” so we don’t have a clear direction on the live-service elements (even if we did, they’d probably change, at least according to BioWare employees). Reports out of the studio, though, suggest that they’ll be focused on multiplayer only, with the main, single-player campaign untouched by microtransactions.
To the joy of many fans out there, the combined success of Jedi: Fallen Order and the failure of Anthem has led EA to change gears with this game and remove the live-service elements it intended to include. A report from Bloomberg outlined how EA and the team have decided to go so far as to remove all multiplayer elements from the game.
DLC Image used with permission by copyright holder EA hasn’t said much about Dragon Age: Dreadwolf, let alone its post-launch plans. However, we suspect that BioWare will get to work on DLC packs once the game finally launches. From Dragon Age: Origins to Inquisition, BioWare has supported every title with add-ons and expansions, some of which are crucial to fully understanding the story.
As for when the DLC will arrive, it will probably be shortly after launch.
Dragon Age: Origins received its first post-launch DLC only two months after release, and Dragon Age: Inquisition got its first DLC pack four months after launch.
Preorder Preorders haven’t begun for Dragon Age: Dreadwolf yet. In fact, we don’t even have a release date. If past releases are anything to go by, BioWare will have multiple editions of Dragon Age: Dreadwolf with various preorder bonuses.
Dragon Age: Inquisition topped out with a $170 “Inquisitor’s Edition,” which featured a tarot card deck, a special case, a cloth map, a full-scale lock-picking set, a quill and ink, a badge, some coins, and a 40-page journal. It’s been several years since Inquisition , and the video game industry has changed a lot, but we still expect EA to release a big, bold collector’s edition for Dragon Age: Dreadwolf packed with preorder bonuses.
Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more GTA 6: release date speculation, trailer, news, rumors, and more RoboCop: Rogue City: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Cities: Skylines 2: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Dishonored 3: release date window, rumors, and more Gaming We all knew Final Fantasy 7 Remake was just the beginning, but had no idea how long we would have to wait for the next part, or even how many parts this incredibly ambitious project would end up spanning. Since fans have been begging Square Enix to remake what is quite possibly the most popular and most important JRPG of all time for years, there was obviously a lot of pressure on the studio to get it right. While there was plenty of skepticism regarding the first part changing so much about the core formula, once we had it in our hands, it became almost universally praised.
After Remake, there was next to no news on when Cloud and his ragtag team's adventure would continue. That is, not until the 25th anniversary of the original PlayStation 1 game, when Square Enix dropped a ton of info on us all at once. The biggest news was obviously the official reveal of Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth, the second part in what we now know to be a trilogy of titles. Since then, we've collected all the info drops as they've occurred. Here's everything we know about Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth.
Gaming Spider-Man is one of the most recognizable superheroes in the world. His popularity in media is hard to overstate, as he is the focus of ongoing films, comics, multiple animated series, and, of course, video games. The web-slinger has been on home consoles ever since the Atari days, and each new generation has given us better and better games. The most recent game, Marvel's Spider-Man, which paired the comic book hero with the perfect developer (Insomniac Games) to handle this acrobatic, sarcastic neighborhood hero, was a smash-hit in every respect. Critics praised it, fans loved it, and it sold like crazy. Plus, it probably was a major contributing factor in Sony's outright purchase of the studio. Naturally, we all knew a sequel had to be coming.
When the PlayStation 5 launched, we got a standalone expansion of sorts in Spider-Man: Miles Morales, which let us play as the new spider on the block in his own story. Now the focus has been set on the proper, full sequel, which looks to take everything from the original game and the expansion and combine it all into a truly amazing new Spider-Man (Spider-Men?) title. We've only had a handful of looks at the game, but we've used our spider senses to untangle all the information there is about Marvel's Spider-Man 2.
Release date Gaming The Elder Scrolls 6 was first revealed five years ago with a 36-second announcement trailer. Unfortunately, there hasn't been a lot of concrete news on the title since.
Now that Bethesda has launched Starfield — the developer's first brand-new IP in 25 years — with great success despite plenty of criticism on the game's advertised scale versus its gameplay, it goes without saying that the studio will be shifting to the next installment in the Elder Scrolls series. The new title will be building off the wild success of its predecessor Skyrim (which made the cut for Digital Trends' top 50 video games of all time) and MMO The Elder Scrolls Online.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
