Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Everything we know about Marvel’s Wolverine By Joseph Yaden Close Sony and Insomniac Games shocked the world during the 2021 PlayStation Showcase , which featured a reveal for Marvel’s Wolverine.
 That’s right, Insomniac has been hard at work on Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart, Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales, Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 , and now, this. This will mark the first time Wolverine will star in his own game since 2009’s X-Men Origins: Wolverine , which was based on the film of the same name.
Marvel’s Wolverine release date Marvel’s Wolverine platforms Marvel’s Wolverine trailer Marvel’s Wolverine gameplay Multiplayer DLC While Insomniac has proven itself in the superhero realm thanks to its Spider-Man games, Wolverine is an entirely different beast, so it’ll be interesting to see how the studio handles the character, especially its gameplay. It’s still early in development, but that hasn’t stopped us from gathering as much information about the upcoming game as possible.
Here’s everything we know about Marvel’s Wolverine.
The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Recommended reading: The best superhero games of all time Marvel’s Guardians of the Galaxy puts a superhero spin on Mass Effect 9 essential tips and tricks for Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales Marvel’s Wolverine release date Image used with permission by copyright holder Sadly, Marvel’s Wolverine does not have a release date just yet. As part of a PlayStation Blog post , Insomniac Head of Franchise Strategy Ryan Schneider said “ Marvel’s Wolverine is very early in development.” Considering Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 received a release window of 2023, and this game is certainly not going to come out before it, we can assume Marvel’s Wolverine won’t be ready until at least 2024.
The announcement trailer (more on that below) was less than a minute long and only gave us a brief glimpse at the tone and aesthetic, so there’s likely a long road ahead before it’s ready to launch.
Marvel’s Wolverine platforms Image used with permission by copyright holder The only platform confirmed for Marvel’s Wolverine was PS5 , and based on its likely release window of 2024, it probably won’t be available for PS4. At the end of the announcement trailer, a line of text read “in development for PlayStation 5 ,” so that’s all we know for sure.
What we can almost certainly guarantee is that Marvel’s Wolverine will not come to Xbox Series X |S or Nintendo Switch, since Insomniac Games is a first-party Sony studio. It’s unlikely Sony will allow Insomniac to make games for a competitor’s platform, but it’s within the realm of possibility that it will come to PC. Sony has been pushing for more of its first-party games to be ported to PC, and now that it owns Nixxes Software , we’ll probably see more of this going forward.
Marvel’s Wolverine trailer Marvel’s Wolverine stole the show during the September 2021 PlayStation presentation thanks to its teaser trailer. It depicts a trashed bar, presumably at the hands of Logan, as he sits down to enjoy a drink. This is very much in line with the version of the character from the comics, and hopefully, Insomniac has done its homework to ensure the game is authentic as possible.
What was surprising is that many viewers assumed this trailer was for Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 at first, based on the logos for Marvel and Insomniac. But then the big reveal at the end shocked us all. Check it out for yourself above.
Also, shoutout to the license plate on the wall of the bar that reads “HLK 181,” which is a reference to The Incredible Hulk issue #181, the first appearance of Wolverine. This might just be a cheeky nod to the character’s rich history, but that isn’t stopping us from hoping it means something else. Could Hulk make an appearance in Marvel’s Wolverine ? That would just be … incredible.
Marvel’s Wolverine gameplay Image used with permission by copyright holder Since the trailer didn’t show any gameplay, we can only assume it will play similarly to Marvel’s Spider-Man.
 It will likely be action-oriented, with some sort of upgrade system, and possibly an open world (maybe even the same world as Marvel’s Spider-Man ). But part of the appeal of the Spider-Man games is its traversal system, wherein players are able to swing freely around New York City.
Wolverine doesn’t have this ability, so it’ll be interesting to see how movement and traversal will be handled in the new game. Perhaps Wolverine will utilize his motorcycle to get around, which could be fun, albeit different than web-slinging. Unlike the Spider-Man games, Wolverine will probably not rely on gadgets to defeat enemies. He’s a much different character than Peter Parker (and Miles Morales) — a grizzled veteran who uses his own wits and claws during combat, rather than an arsenal of weapons and toys. Insomniac has certainly earned our trust after its recent releases, but it will certainly be interesting to see how the team handles this aspect of Wolverine from a gameplay perspective.
Multiplayer Although multiplayer hasn’t been confirmed or denied, it’s unlikely you’ll get to play with your friends in Marvel’s Wolverine.
 Insomniac Games doesn’t have much of a history of developing multiplayer games, so you should expect this to be a single-player experience. With the likelihood of Insomniac turning into a Marvel video game studio , it’s possible cooperative multiplayer will eventually be implemented in a later installment, but Wolverine probably isn’t the game to start that trend.
DLC Image used with permission by copyright holder DLC on the other hand is practically a given in Marvel’s Wolverine.
 As shown in Marvel’s Spider-Man , it’s highly likely Wolverine’s narrative will continue with added story content post-launch. Along with that, a slew of costumes will probably be available to download, referencing the character’s many iterations across film and comics. Of course, the team is currently focusing on the main game, but we’d be shocked if DLC didn’t play a part at a later date.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 exclusives The best PS5 games for 2023 PS5 slim vs. PS5: everything you need to know about the new PS5 model PS Plus members can cloud stream PS5 games in 4K later this month Comic Book Movies Marvel Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming The newly redesigned PlayStation 5 is getting its own set of console covers sometime next year. Sony confirms to Digital Trends that several faceplate colors are slated to launch in 2024 but covers for the old PS5 models will not be compatible with the new systems.
One of the PS5's most unique features is its removable faceplates, which allow players to customize their console with new colors and designs. The new PS5 models will evolve that idea with a four-cover panel design that gives the system a slightly different look. Sony is already planning to make those customizable in the near future, according to a statement sent to Digital Trends.
Gaming Sony announced that new, smaller versions of the PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 5 Digital Edition will hit store shelves in November. On top of that, an Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive for Digital Edition consoles is also on its way.
Revealed in a PlayStation Blog post, these new versions aren't being branded the PS5 Slim or anything similar to that; they're just the new flagship versions of Sony's latest console. Their design is similar to the launch models, but is now made up of four individual cover panels. The top panels on each side feature the PlayStation logo and a glossy finish, while the bottom panels are made with the same matte material as current PS5 models. The design makes the PS5 and PS5 Digital Edition lighter and reduces the volume of both consoles by 30%, according to Sony.
In the U.S., the new PS5 will retail for $500, while the new PS5 Digital Edition will cost $450. PS5 Digital Edition owners can then swap out one of the bottom cover panels for the $80 Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive for PS5, which will allow them to play physical copies of games or watch movies on what is sold as a digital-only console. Both of these new PS5 models come with a horizontal stand, although a new Vertical Stand priced at $30 is also in the works.
Despite the slimmer design, the new PS5 models aren't coming with a price cut. The model including a disc drive is still the same price as a current PS5 model. The digital edition is actually getting a $50 price increase from the current digital version's $400 price tag. Those who want to upgrade and add an $80 disc drive after the fact will end up paying more than the non-digital version in the long run.
The PlayStation Blog post confirms that the launch versions of both PS5 consoles will be phased out as these new models hit store shelves in the U.S. sometime in November. If you were planning to get a PS5 console soon, it may be worth considering holding off until these new models launch.
Gaming The long-anticipated Bethesda RPG Starfield has finally been released and the reviews from players are looking great so far. Featuring the publisher's first new world in 25 years, Starfield is centered around endless space exploration — quite a different direction than Fallout's postapocalyptic America or The Elder Scroll's fantasy landscapes. While the game doesn't necessarily allow you to get lost in space like most players initially were looking forward to, it does contain plenty of excellent sci-fi standbys like multiverse theories, a vast pool of spaceships to pilot through galaxies, and some far-out futuristic weaponry.
Starfield launched on the Xbox Series X and PC (and Xbox One, sort of), but hasn't made its way to the PlayStation 5. While there are plenty of great games on PS5, some Sony gamers are still eagerly waiting for their chance to jump into the world of Starfield.
Will Starfield come to PS5? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
