Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Everything we know about Mass Effect 4 By Jesse Lennox Close We only just got confirmation that Mass Effect 4 even exists at last year’s Game Awards, but the short trailer was more than enough to inspire a lot of hope, as well as questions, for fans of the series. The original trilogy was one of the most ambitious trilogies of that generation and managed to grow a massive fanbase for a new franchise. The final game’s conclusion, regardless of how divisive it was among gamers, was a fairly conclusive wrap up to that entire universe. Since then BioWare has put out another spin-off entry in the form of Mass Effect: Andromeda.
 This title had a lot to live up to and, bugs and glitches aside, didn’t satisfy many of the fans who adored the deep sci-fi lore, intricate character relationships, and meaningful choices found in the first three games.
Release date Platforms Trailer Gameplay Multiplayer DLC Pre-order We only have the one trailer to work off of so far, but here is everything we’ve been able to piece together about Mass Effect 4.
Further reading Everything we know about Dragon Age 4 Here’s every announcement from the 2020 Game Awards The best RPG games you can play right now Release date This little teaser had no indication on when we can expect to see the next Mass Effect game. Not even a year was attached, which leads us to believe that it is still early on in development. Other evidence of this is that BioWare has multiple other projects its teams are working on, such as Dragon Age 4 , the ongoing Anthem , and the upcoming Mass Effect: Legendary Edition, which remasters the original trilogy. Since Dragon Age 4 was announced prior to this, and also still has no confirmed release window, it isn’t likely we will see Mass Effect 4 for at least a year or so after that game launches. This could place its release as late as sometime around 2023 or even 2024.
The Outer Worlds 2: release date speculation, trailer, and more Everything to know about Fortnite Chapter 3, Season 4: Paradise Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic remake: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Platforms Image used with permission by copyright holder If the release date is as far off as we suspect, perhaps as much as three or four years, then it would only make sense for it to be on the current PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X and S consoles. This generational switch has been the slowest to fully transition over in terms of games being released on previous- and current-generation consoles because of just how big the install base is, but also how much easier it is for games to be upgraded for the more powerful hardware, but by this point, massive titles like this should be targeting only the higher-end machines. If BioWare wants to win back its fans, it can’t afford to either hold back the ambitions of this new Mass Effect, or release a disappointing port for the old consoles.
Trailer So far all we have to work from regarding Mass Effect 4 is the less than two-minute teaser trailer from The Game Awards. We are shown the Milky Way galaxy as the camera zooms in and radio transmissions play out. The camera zips past stars, planets, asteroids, and a massive debris field as the transmissions become more panicked and erratic until finally focusing on a ship heading down to a mysterious planet. Here we see our first humanoid figure trudging through the snow and recovering a fragment of the iconic N7 armor. The mysterious person is then shown to be an Asari, a prominent race from the series, and perhaps even one we already know. Many believe this is Liara, though it is hard to be completely certain, but would be a very interesting way to tie in this new game with the previous series without Commander Shepard. Asari lifespans are upwards of 1,000 years in the Mass Effect universe, so it is more than reasonable for Liara to return, either as a protagonist or companion. The trailer ends with the cryptic message that “Mass Effect Will Continue.” Gameplay This is going to be pure speculation since the trailer we have was completely prerendered and nothing regarding gameplay has been shown or talked about yet. However, based on all four of the previous games in the series, we can be fairly confident in assuming Mass Effect 4 will continue to mix RPG elements with third-person, cover-based shooting. The series always has fit that definition but has become more refined and expanded in each game.
Mass Effect 2 was the sweet spot for most fans, with tight gunplay but still a good deal of RPG elements to customize the experience with. Based on how BioWare games have progressed up to and beyond Andromeda , we can expect at least the combat to be a highlight, which just leaves how much of an RPG the game will be in question. Romance, relationships, and decision-making systems defined the series, so leaving those out would be a massive mistake.
Multiplayer Image used with permission by copyright holder The last two titles, Mass Effect 3 and Andromeda , both had cooperative multiplayer components attached to them. Additionally, Dragon Age: Inquisition and Anthem also allowed players to team up online, with the latter explicitly being focused on multiplayer. If that trend is anything to go by, then Mass Effect 4 will have some form of multiplayer component as well. Hopefully, BioWare learned its lesson with Anthem and won’t make the actual campaign be playable in multiplayer. It was already a mess in that game, and would only water down the experience in a game even more heavily story based like ME4.
 We predict another horde or objective-based cooperative mode with all the upgrades, leveling, weapons, armor, and other trappings of a game as a service. EA is still the publisher, after all, and will want to monetize this franchise as heavily as possible.
DLC With the exception of Andromeda , every single Mass Effect title has gotten some form of DLC. The only reason Andromeda didn’t was, according to the developers, because they had to focus on fixing the game’s bugs and visual performance and then immediately shift resources over to focus on Anthem.
 We doubt BioWare will allow this kind of scenario to happen again. The story focused DLCs for ME2 and ME3 were seen as some of the best story expansions released on that generation, and gave even more depth to the universe and characters. Again looking at the current trend of the industry, it is likely that as they develop the base experience, the team will also plot out several DLC expansions to release in the months following the game’s launch. Plus, if our prediction on the multiplayer modes is correct, then new maps, guns, skins, and things of that nature can be expected to hold players over between story DLC.
Pre-order There’s no word on pre-ordering ME4 yet, and we shouldn’t expect one until we at least get a firm release date. That being said, anyone excited for this title should rest easy knowing that there’s little doubt pre-orders will be heavily marketed and available, probably with exclusive content or incentives. EA values pre-order numbers to a large degree, and there’s hardly any game, AAA or indie, that doesn’t issue pre-orders. The only question is when, not if, they will become available.
Editors' Recommendations The next Mass Effect gets a new teaser on N7 Day Dragon Age: Dreadwolf: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Everything we know about The Callisto Protocol Lots of Mass Effect and Dragon Age DLC is now free for PC players Everything we know about Scorn Buying Guides Buying Guides Gaming The Prince of Persia series goes back far longer than most people realize. Originally turning heads as an Apple 2 game in 1989, the 2D platformer used rotoscoping to create the most fluid and realistic animations ever seen at the time. From there, the series grew in popularity, reaching its peak with the Sands of Time trilogy on the PS2 generation, starting with Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, and followed up by Prince of Persia: Warrior Within and Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones. After these games, the series only had two notable console releases, but neither really captured the same amount of acclaim as the prior trilogy.
After being essentially transformed into the Assassin's Creed series, many people thought the Prince of Persia franchise was dead and buried. However, Ubisoft isn't a publisher to let a franchise die, and announced the Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time Remake in 2020. Since then, fans have been left mostly in the dark as to how much this remake will change or remain faithful to the original.
Gaming BioWare confirmed in a new blog post that Dragon Age: Dreadwolf is the title for the long-awaited next entry in the Dragon Age series. The post also shows off a new logo for the game and confirms that while Dreadwolf will not be released in 2022, EA and BioWare will have more to share on it within the year.
The bulk of the post outlines a few small details as to why BioWare chose the name Dreadwolf. According to the post, the name is in reference to the Dread Wolf Solas, a highly powerful elf from the franchise. While this character will be familiar to fans of the series, the post does claim that newcomers will not have any trouble understanding its importance when starting this new entry.
Gaming With E3 being canceled this year, and many unsure if it will ever return, the summer was in danger of being a wild west of every publisher and developer creating their own events and announcements with no rhyme or reason. For all the faults with it, E3 at least organized all the major players in the gaming space into some sort of order that everyone -- players and press -- could keep track of and plan around based on their interests.
In the vacuum left by that iconic summer event full of press conferences, Geoff Keighley has stepped up in the past few years to introduce a new system to maintain order during the summer announcements.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
