Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl review: A fighter with its eggs in one basket By DeAngelo Epps Close $50.00 Strong combat mechanics Tons of player freedom Great online Good music and visuals Lacking in content Very competition focused Unpolished in many areas No voice acting With the announcement of the new Super Smash Bros.-inspired platform-fighter Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl came endless discussions of the game becoming the “Smash killer.” While it doesn’t quite live up to those lofty expectations, it definitely delivers with a strong competitive experience and a deep mechanical system that warmly welcomes hardcore players. But in my time with the game, I found that may be all there is to All-Star Brawl.
Surprisingly complex gameplay The game is very bare A masterpiece in need of polish Our take Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl is a new crossover fighting game by Ludosity, the team behind the critically acclaimed platform-fighter Slap City.
 The game stars some of Nickelodeon’s most iconic and obscure characters, with the likes of SpongeBob SquarePants and Reptar thrown into an arena to battle it out Smash Bros. style.
Look out Super Smash Bros. Melee. Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl is getting a sequel What cartoon characters are in Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl? Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl: Beginner’s tips and tricks While its main claim to fame is being “Smash but with Nicktoons,” upon playing NAS, I immediately saw the game has its own unique identity. The visuals are vibrant and cartoony, the gameplay is free-flowing with a high skill ceiling, and the characters are mostly all very fun to play. However, NASB has quite a few rough spots that constantly reminded me that this is a budget title — and one that may have put too many of its eggs in one basket, at that.
Surprisingly complex gameplay A key piece of the fighting game experience is seeing cool gameplay moves happen and learning to do said cool moves, and NASB delivers there. While playing, I constantly found myself having “Wow I can do that?!” moments while exploring some of the best mechanics Ludosity implemented into the game.
Similar to the Smash Bros. series, NASB revolves around going to a battlefield with one or more opponents and duking it out to raise their damage percentage in order to launch them offstage in a giant explosion. Where it differs is in the tools players have to complete this goal.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Allow me to get technical for a moment to showcase just how deceptively serious a fighter this game is. In battle, there is a standard jab, air and ground tilt/light attacks, air and ground smash/heavy attacks, air and ground specials, light and heavy dash attacks that can cancel into other attacks, and grounded and aerial grabs. The unique inclusion of the aerial heavies, separate cancellable dash attacks, and air grabs adds an awesome layer to offense and defense in NASB that isn’t seen in Smash.
T he combat really shines, making this an especially fun fighting game.
NASB also gives players access to an anime fighter-esque air dash that can be done to zoom through the air or canceled out of a low jump to wavedash (seriously, this is shockingly complex). This has to be my favorite feature in the game, as it gives players freedom of movement when it comes to spacing, combos, mix-ups, defense, and more.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I lost myself in a sea of ideas of what I could be doing in my time playing. The game presents so many great tools to players that offer different ways of playing that what you get is a title with what could be an endless learning pool for player expression.
However, NASB has its rough spots with a few technical oversights here and there including infinite combos and unbalanced moves like Catdog’s overpowered aerial up-smash, lovingly dubbed by the community as the “Updog.” Despite this, the combat really shines, making this an especially fun fighting game. And the amazing rollback netcode usually allows Ethernet-wired players to play with these mechanics to the best of their ability despite being great distances apart.
The game is very bare While I could go on for days about the combat system in Nickelodeon All-Star Braw ,the same can’t be said about the rest of the game — probably because the combat really is all there is to it. If you’re looking for a one-to-one Smash Bros experience, look elsewhere, because this is not it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder NASB has four modes. The first is battle, a standard offline versus mode where up to four players can duke it out in stock, timed, or sports matches (the latter being a game of knocking a ball into the opponent’s goal). There are also standard training, arcade, and online, which has quick play, competitive play, and online lobbies. Besides that, there’s nothing else to do in the game.
Ironically, for a game based on children’s cartoon characters, there just isn’t much here for that audience.
Yes, the main appeal of a fighting game should be the fighting, but other modes to sink time into for more casual players have been genre staples since the Dreamcast era.
NASB seems to have forgotten about that. There’s no survival mode, no unlockables, no minigames, or anything else of the sort.
Ironically, for a game based on children’s cartoon characters, there just isn’t much here for that audience, let alone casual gamers who want to play as their childhood favorites. While there is a ton for the competitive side to chew on, the masses get left with scraps, and that just feels misguided for a game like this. I’m not sure if it was due to budgeting or poor decisions, but I think this game really needs more meat on its bones to stand the test of time with someone other than the hardcore lot.
A masterpiece in need of polish Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl constantly lets you know that it isn’t a big-budget production. One of the big issues that many people have with the game is the lack of voice acting. It’s hard to accept that a game starring cartoon characters from our childhoods doesn’t feature their iconic voices.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There are also a few battle mechanics that could use more polish: Untechable knockdowns becoming infinite combos, some characters having rough times snapping to stage ledges safely, and certain characters like Patrick simply feeling unfinished.
Ludosity clearly plans to support the game after it launches, which puts it in a position to grow.
Thankfully, during Hungrybox’s Juice Box tournament , one of the developers stated multiple times that these mechanical issues will be resolved. In an interview with Game Informer , Ludosity’s CEO Joel Nyström said voice actors are something that may be added down the line, along with other planned updates for the game. Ludosity clearly plans to support the game after it launches, which puts it in a position to grow.
Our take Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl is a wildly fun time if you’re coming to it for its competitive potential. However, your mileage may vary depending on if you’re a casual or hardcore player. The game will be updated in the future, so more features may be added, but only time. Until then, it’s lacking some key features that hold it back as a casual single-player experience.
How long will it last? It depends on who you are. If you’re a competitive player, you’ll find yourself losing track of time with how much there is to find in NASB.
 If you’re just in it for the party game or single-player experience, you may want to wait for a price drop.
Is there an alternative? If you don’t already have it, there’s always Smash Bros. Ultimate and its huge roster of fighters , though its online experience is miles worse than NASB ‘s. If you want a super-competitive time with just as high a skill ceiling and as fun movement options as NASB you can play Smash Bros. Melee , which now has online capabilities comparable to NASB thanks to a new rollback client through Slippi.
Should you buy it? Yes, though it really depends on what you’re looking for. It’s not a perfect casual experience, but if you’re a hardcore fighting fan that wants to get sweaty online, it’s a must-try. However, beware of purchasing on the Nintendo Switch, as it is the only version without rollback netcode, which makes its online experience significantly inferior to that of the other hardware choices.
Editors' Recommendations Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2: release date window, trailers, gameplay, and more Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl adds voice acting and items Nick All-Stars adds Rocko, Hugh Neutron, and Jenny Garfield and lasagna are coming to Nickelodeon All-Stars Brawl Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl already has its first tournament-banned character Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Boasting fighters from SpongeBob SquarePants, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, The Ren & Stimpy Show, and more, the starting roster of characters for Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl is stellar. But with the developer already teasing future reveals, we're already excited to learn which cartoons are coming to the brawler next.
We took a deep dive into hit Nick shows to pick out an even dozen characters who we think would be good additions to the character selection screen. Some are Nick legends who have already been in the spotlight, while others are wacky dark horse candidates for DLC inclusion down the road.
Tommy Pickles Gaming Ever wonder which one of your favorite Nickelodeon characters would come out on top in a fight? Nickelodeon just announced a new Super Smash Bros-like fighting game, Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl , which will give you a chance to see which cartoons are the ultimate fighters.
While the idea of a Nickelodeon-themed fighter is a little silly, players in the fighting game community are keeping an open mind and believe the new title could be a legitimate competitive experience. The Super Smash Bros. series has been wildly successful after all. Is there really much of a difference between Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons and the Wii Fit Trainer squaring up in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate and a showdown between Spongebob Squarepants and Leonardo from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles? Not really! Of course, the popularity of the game will ultimately come down to the quality of the game -- balanced characters, serious mechanics, and a robust player base.
Gaming Super Mario All-Stars 3D got a surprise update that adds GameCube controller support to Super Mario Sunshine. The update brings new camera controls and general fixes to the package.
Those who want to play Super Mario Sunshine with its intended GameCube control scheme can now do so, though there are some catches. In order to use the controller, players will need the Nintendo Switch GameCube adapter, which plugs into the Switch dock. That means the option is only available in TV mode and that Switch Lite owners won't be able to use the controller.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
