Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown is already proving the haters wrong By Giovanni Colantonio Close This year’s Summer Game Fest live stream kicked off with a bang when Ubisoft revealed a surprise to open the show.
Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown brings the classic series back to its 2D roots in a Metroidvania-style action-platformer. I was immediately sold on style alone, but it appears not everyone was pleased. The trailer was downvoted heavily on YouTube despite that strong showing. Comments on its trailer show a wide range of complaints. Some are bemoaning the series going 2D rather than delivering a “next-gen” 3D installment, while other comments are whining about the trailer’s use of rap music.
Deceptively deep combat Sargonvania Those gamers can complain as much as they want, but I pity them after going hands-on with the new Prince of Persia title. Based on the strong half-hour I played, it’s shaping up to be 2024’s first must-play game. With a fast-paced combat system with a surprising amount of depth to a Metroid-style exploration that already felt rewarding in a short glimpse, Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown should have no problem overcoming that wave of reactionary hate.
Deceptively deep combat The demo I played came from an early build of the game that blocked off some pathways and gave me a few powers sooner than I’d normally have them. Even with those tweaks, I was still able to get a sense of exactly how The Lost Crown works, and that snippet left an incredibly strong first impression.
The Sand Land video game is already converting me into a fan of the manga Ghost Trick: Phantom Detective’s demo proves this cult classic holds up Assassin’s Creed Mirage gameplay trailer shows a return to franchise roots What immediately pops out is its excellent combat system, which goes much deeper than I anticipated after first seeing it. The lead hero, Sargon, can perform some basic sword attacks on one button and fire arrows with another. It seems simple at first, but those two functions are deceptively complex. If I use the left stick while attacking, Sargon can fling a grounded enemy up into the air. From there, I can juggle them by following up with a few arrow shots or air-dashing over to them and unleashing an aerial combo. Once they hit the ground, I can chase them down with a slam attack.
That’s just a small taste of what’s possible with some basic attacks, but the system goes even deeper. Hold down the arrow button and Sargon releases a boomerang-like chakram that can hit an enemy again on its return. Sargon can spend energy to perform some special attacks, which seem like they can be customized (I could cast a healing circle by spending two bars of energy, for instance). There’s an impactful parry system on top of all that, which allows Sargon to block most attacks with a press of the left trigger. All of those little systems stack up to create quick and varied battles with a lot of room for creativity.
Ubisoft That all came to a head beautifully in the demo’s big boss fight, a stunning encounter against a Manticore that’s incredibly similar to Metroid Dread ‘s Corpius fight. I need to use every single one of those powers to make it through a tough battle, avoiding the monster’s poison tail and heavy body slams. At one point, it flashes yellow and charges at me. I stand my ground like a matador and hit parry at just the right moment to unleash a visually stunning counter that just looks plain cool. It’s an excellent first encounter that really shows off how satisfying it is to master every system.
Sargonvania Combat is only half of the equation, though. Based on what I saw, The Lost Crown appears to be a full-on Metroidvania full of secret pathways and areas that require a specific power-up to traverse. I found tons of extra nooks and crannies as I fluidly explored its 2D world, nailing that strong sense of reward the genre thrives on.
That exploration is helped by some strong traversal mechanics too, which harken back to the series’ origins. I’d wall jump between spike traps, dash under deadly traps, and swing from bar to bar to reach secret spots. The fundamentals feel strong already here, making Sargon feel like a graceful acrobat that can move around with speed and precision. I always felt like I had a sense of perfect control, both in and out of battles.
Image used with permission by copyright holder By the end of the demo, I was eager to see more. I’m already wondering what abilities Sargon will get and imagining how they could shake up both sides of the game. For instance, I didn’t get to see the character’s time powers in action, but there’s some real potential for The Lost Crown to use that idea to create unique traversal puzzles. I’m also eager to toy around more with its character customization, as players can equip relics that have a major impact on Sargon’s abilities. At one point, I equipped one that let me shoot three arrows at once in a wider spread.
If you’ve already written off Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown on look alone, you may want to bite your tongue. Its 2D art style might make it look like a throwback, but there’s nothing retro about it. This is a very modern action platformer in the same way that Metroid Dread was in 2021, finding a way to add a lot more complexity and fluidity to its side-scroller setup. I already can’t wait to dive back in, downvotes be damned.
Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown launches on January 17, 2024, for PC, Nintendo Switch, PS4, PS5 , Xbox One, Xbox Series X /S, and Amazon Luna.
Editors' Recommendations Every summer 2023 gaming showcase: full schedule of live streams Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora honors the Na’vi with ‘quality over quantity’ gameplay Star Wars Outlaws showcases its scum and villainy in gameplay debut Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora takes us to the Western Frontier on December 7 Everything announced at the June 2023 Ubisoft Forward Features Summer Gaming Marathon Gaming Ubisoft will hold its next video game showcase later today. The latest in its Ubisoft Forward series of live streams, this will be a live event in Los Angeles that will provide updates on many of the company's upcoming titles like Assassin's Creed Mirage and Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora. Considering much of Ubisoft's lineup has suffered some sort of delay over the past year or two, this Ubisoft Forward is the company's best chance to reaffirm confidence in its upcoming game lineup.
Fans of series like Assassin's Creed, Prince of Persia, and and The Crew will want to tune in to 2023's Ubisoft Forward to see what's next for their favorite franchises. Those who want to learn more about previously teased titles like Star Wars Outlaws will also want to watch. If this is a show you're interested in, we're breaking down how you can watch the showcase and what you should expect from it.
When is Ubisoft Forward 2023 The pre-show for this year's Ubisoft Forward will begin at 9:45 a.m. PT today, June 12. That preshow will last 15 minutes, so if you only care about the biggest announcements, you don't need to worry about tuning in until 10 a.m. PT today.
How to watch Ubisoft Forward 2023 Ubisoft Forward: Official Livestream - June 2023 | #UbiForward Gaming Ubisoft announced Star Wars Outlaws, a new Star Wars game, in collaboration with Lucasfilm Games at today's Xbox Showcase. The latest installment leaves behind Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and Survivor protagonist Cal Kestis in favor of a new rebellious, rule-breaking hero called Kay Vess.
Star Wars Outlaws: Official World Premiere Trailer Gaming Ubisoft confirmed Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown at the 2023 Summer Game Fest kickoff stream with a trailer showing its gameplay and story. The trailer showcased the fast-paced, real-time combat that the series is known for in its action-packed footage. It also introduces a sword-slinging protagonist and his journey through Ubisoft's latest version of its Persian setting.
Prince of Persia The Lost Crown Official Trailer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
