Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Surprise! Ubisoft delays Skull and Bones yet again By Tomas Franzese Close The oft-delayed Skull and Bones still isn’t ready for release, as Ubisoft confirmed it has delayed the pirate game for the sixth time.
Skull and Bones will no longer release on March 9, and now just has a vague release window of “early 2023 to 2024.” At this point, we can’t really be surprised that this happened again.
First announced at E3 2017, Skull and Bones was initially intended for release in 2018. It finally resurfaced last year after a couple of delays with a November 8, 2022 release date.
 That morphed into a March 9, 2023 release date , which Ubisoft has now nixed for a vague release window that basically amounts to them wanting to release Skull and Bones sometime this fiscal year. Still, Ubisoft seems optimistic about the pirate game despite its never-ending string of delays.
“Players will be able to discover the beauty of Skull and Bones in the upcoming beta phase,” a press release explains. “The additional time has already paid off and brought impressive improvements to its quality, which has been confirmed by recent playtests. We believe players will be positively surprised by its evolution. We have decided to postpone its release in order to have more time to showcase a much more polished and balanced experience and to build awareness.” Skull and Bones: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more The long-delayed Skull and Bones loses its 2022 release date Everything announced at the September 2022 Ubisoft Forward This delay announcement comes as part of a larger update to the company’s financial targets for this fiscal year and next, where Ubisoft detailed the negative impacts of “surprisingly slower” game sales for Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope and Just Dance 2023.
 Not only has Skull and Bones been delayed, but Ubisoft has also canceled three unannounced games that were in development atits various studios. Ubisoft’s “recent launches have not performed as well as expected,” so the company is focusing its efforts “on building our brands and live services into some of the most powerful within the industry.” Ubisoft will also reduce its spending by 200 million euros over the next two years.
Thankfully for Ubisoft, its next fiscal year, which runs through March 2024, looks a lot more interesting thanks to games like Assassin’s Creed Mirage and Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora.
Now we just have to wait and see if Skull and Bones will also be part of that, or if it continues to get delayed.
Editors' Recommendations Rayman returns in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope DLC later this month Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope: best skills and how to level them up Rayman DLC is coming to Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope Ubisoft Forward September 2022: How to watch, what to expect Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope has a substantial season pass Nintendo Tech News Gaming Ubisoft's long-delayed pirate game Skull and Bones will actually launch this year. In a gameplay showcase that gave us our first look at Skull and Bones in several years, Ubisoft confirmed that it would launch on November 8.
Skull and Bones | Gameplay Overview Trailer The final version of Skull and Bones is a mix of Ubisoft's open-world titles, survival games, and a more detailed version of the Assassin's Creed series' naval combat. Players start with just a small ship and a spear ,but will be tasked with building up their Infamy (the main form of progression) by completing quests and taking down enemy ships on the open sea. They'll also become more powerful by finding blueprints and getting the materials to craft new ships, weapons, and armor.
Ubisoft is also emphasizing multiplayer, and players will be able to work with their friends to complete quests and even fight other players if they opt into the correct servers. Ultimately, Skull and Bones is shaping up to be an alternative to Sea of Thieves that's a bit more focused on intense naval combat. It just took Ubisoft a long time to reach that point.
Skull and Bones: Ship Combat, Customization, and Progression Gameplay Skull and Bones has been in development since 2013, and it was first revealed at E3 2017. Back then, it was a more segmented experience with dedicated single-player and PvP modes. Skull and Bones was initially set to launch in late 2018 but was delayed again and again to the point that it was doubtful that the game would ever be released. A Kotaku report about Skull and Bones' development claims that mismanagement and a lack of a consistent vision for the game were to blame for these problems. Ubisoft refocused the project in late 2020, and it appears to be a survival-driven experience.
Ubisoft will release Skull and Bones for PC, PS5, Xbox Series X/S, Google Stadia, and Amazon Luna on November 8.
Gaming In a report of its third-quarter sales, Ubisoft revealed that it's planning to release numerous highly awaited games over the course of its next fiscal year. Through the company's fiscal year 2023, which begins in April 2022 and ends in April 2023, it plans to release Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope, Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora, and the long-beleaguered Skull & Bones.
"In line with Ubisoft's commitment to significantly expand its offering, the next fiscal year will notably include the releases of Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora, Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope, Skull & Bones as well as more exciting games," reads the company's latest sales report.
Gaming E3 is off to an exciting -- if not leaky -- start. The first day of the event mostly centered around Ubisoft, which held its annual keynote. The Ubisoft Forward presentation was a digital version of its usual stage show, complete with new announcements and dancing.
The biggest games of the show were Rainbow Six Extraction, a new alien co-op shooter, and Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope, which leaked before the presentation. The stream revealed release dates on several Ubisoft titles that had previously been delayed due to the pandemic, such as Riders Republic. There was one shocker, too: A new open-world game based on James Cameron's Avatar. Here's everything we saw during the show.
Ubisoft is making an Avatar video game Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora – First Look Trailer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
