Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic remake: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more By Jesse Lennox Close Before Disney bought the Star Wars IP and cut nearly everything that wasn’t the main film series out of the canon, there were tons of expanded Star Wars universe games, books, and shows that were technically all canon. Some games obviously attempted to retell the stories from the films, while others tried to fill in gaps between them. When BioWare got the chance to make a Star Wars game, they decided to set it where they had the most creative freedom possible: the distant past.
Release date Platforms Trailer Gameplay Multiplayer DLC Pre-order Knights of the Old Republic was originally released on PC and Xbox in 2003. Taking the experience BioWare had for writing deep, complex, and layered RPG stories and mixing it with the setting of the Star Wars universe, this original tale of hunting down Darth Revan became an instant classic. Even nearly two decades later, many consider it to be one of the best Star Wars stories ever told, films included. However, two decades will make even the best game show its age, which was why rumors about a Knights of the Old Republic remake were so exciting. Thankfully, those rumors turned out to be true. We only have a short teaser and some articles for information so far, but here’s everything we know about the Knights of the Old Republic remake.
Further reading The best upcoming PS5 games The best Star Wars games of all time The best video game remakes of all time Release date Image used with permission by copyright holder Neither the teaser nor any following details about the Knights of the Old Republic remake gave us a release date or even a window. However, the lead producer on the game, Ryan Readwell, is quoted as saying that development on the game has been active “for a little while.” That is hardly a concrete measurement, and game development takes a very long time in the best cases anyway. Based on that, plus the fact that the only footage of the game they had to show was a very brief CGI trailer, we think this game is at least a year away, if not more. It all depends on just how substantial of a remake it is.
Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more RoboCop: Rogue City: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Recent reports by Bloomberg have now come out stating that the Knights of the Old Republic remake is delayed indefinitely after a very poor demo was shown of by the developer. The team is supposedly looking for new projects, further indicating that, at the very least, they may not ever return to the project.
Platforms Image used with permission by copyright holder As one of the reveals at the PlayStation showcase in September, we knew there would be some kind of exclusivity deal with this game from the start. Looking at the details given in the official PlayStation blog after the conference, it was confirmed that the Knights of the Old Republic remake will be coming to PC as well as be a PlayStation 5 console exclusive at launch. Apparently, Sony Interactive Entertainment is even helping out the team at Aspyr to fully utilize the PS5 hardware.
The wording there does indicate that the game will come to other consoles later on once the exclusivity deal ends, but for now, we have no idea how long that will be. Deals like that can range from six months to multiple years, so it’s hard to say when Xbox fans will see Knights of the Old Republic back on their systems.
Trailer The only trailer we have so far is barely a minute long and fully CGI with no gameplay. We open with narration from the familiar voice of Bastila Shan, once again played by Jennifer Hale, describing the Sith ideology as a cloaked figure walks through the mist. They fire up their red lightsaber as Bastila remarks that they “face the greatest Sith in generations,” and the iconic mask of Revan is lit up by the glowing blade. The trailer ends with the line, “They must be stopped.” Being a remake, the story of Knights of the Old Republic is already well-known and won’t be touched. Or, rather, it shouldn’t be touched much if Aspyr knows what’s good for them. The tale of Darth Revan and Darth Malak, the Sith and Jedi war, and your custom character’s journey through it all are considered near-perfect to fans. Having Jennifer Hale return as Bastila was a great way to indicate that they intend to honor the original, and Treadwell stated, “I do think that you’re going to see some other familiar voices return, but that’s probably as deep as we’re gonna go on that one right now.” He also wants to incorporate “modern tech, features, visuals, and more while maintaining the integrity of the story and characters that we’ve come to cherish.” All of that sounds like fans won’t have to worry about much meddling with Knights of the Old Republic’s story.
Gameplay If there’s one thing that most people could agree with, except for die-hard fans, it’s that Knights of the Old Republic could certainly use some updating in the gameplay department. The original used a sort of turn-based system that translated the D20 system of Dungeons and Dragons into RPG mechanics. While we do still want this to be an RPG at heart, the moment-to-moment action probably will be overhauled to some extent. Whether or not it will remain turn-based is up in the air — it could work either way, but we doubt it will still follow the D20 systems so closely. At the very least, they will display it in a way that casual gamers not familiar with pen-and-paper RPGs will be able to grasp.
The same is likely true for the menus, which were kind of a mess. Items were disorganized; equipping and managing weapons, armor, and other items on all your characters was a chore; and even tracking quests was a pain. These are easy quality-of-life improvements that Aspyr can make that will easily make Knights of the Old Republic feel more modern.
Maybe the most important part, though, is the actual role-playing.
Knights of the Old Republic offered way more dialogue options, meaningful choices, and dynamic quests than most games today. Even BioWare streamlined their games over time to only offer a few lines to choose from and didn’t even write them out. In order to really understand what you’re saying, especially since your main character wasn’t voiced, having the full line written out was essential. But for all we know, your character will be voiced in this remake.
Orion Kellogg, executive producer at Lucasfilm Games, again tries to ease potential concerns: “We’ve been working really, really closely with Aspyr for a long time now to deconstruct what made KOTOR so great and bring that back to new audiences because we want this game to be an incredible RPG. We want this game to be just as beloved as it was before. Some of my favorite meetings to have in my week right now are to get into the nitty-gritty with Aspyr and talk about, ‘Why did we make that choice in the original game, and how does that play today? How do we expand that choice and make it even more meaningful and impactful?’ We think about, literally, every word of dialogue and [other choices] down to the clothes that the character is wearing.” Finally, Aspyr does seem like the best team to know how best to take Knights of the Old Republic and improve it while keeping what made it so special intact. They have already ported the original game, so they are quite familiar with working with the game’s code already.
Multiplayer If this is a true remake, there will be no form of multiplayer whatsoever. Based on what the developers have been saying about trying to remain as true to the original as possible, adding in something like multiplayer would be a major departure that would go against everything said so far.
DLC Knights of the Old Republic never had any DLC, though it did eventually get a sequel. A project of this scope, at least to us, doesn’t seem like one they’d want to add any DLC to, but maybe go on to either remake the sequel itself, which needs it way more than the original, or move on to make a new game in this style. For now, they haven’t said there are plans for DLC, so we will just wait on news before jumping to any conclusions.
Pre-order This galactic adventure won’t be here any time soon and could now possibly never come. If we hear any updates on the game’s revival, we’ll update you here.
Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Marathon: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Cities: Skylines 2: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Marvel’s Spider-Man 2: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Super Mario RPG: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Action Games Sci-Fi Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Star Wars Tech News Gaming A new look at Marvel's Spider-Man 2 wrapped up Sony's September State of Play presentation narrated by Bryan Intihar and showcased all the details our wall-crawling heroes can expect in the nearly twice as large open world.
Marvel's Spider-Man 2 - Expanded Marvel's New York | PS5 Games Gaming Are you ready to test your might? After a small leak and a couple of teases on Twitter, Mortal Kombat 1 has been confirmed to be the next entry in the best-selling fighting game series of all time. Developer NetherRealm typically alternates between franchises, so many people expected their next project to be a new Injustice since Mortal Kombat 11 was their last release in 2019. That is evidently not the plan, but this also isn't the Mortal Kombat 12 that would logically follow. The series already saw something of a reboot with Mortal Kombat 9, so what's going on with Mortal Kombat 1? Choose your fighter and memorize your fatality button inputs, because we're breaking down all the gory details of Mortal Kombat 1.
Release date Mortal Kombat 1 will be ready for kombat on September 19, 2023. However, there will also be an early access period for those who purchase either the Premium or Kollector's Edition of the game. This early access will begin on September 14 at 10 a.m. PT.
Platforms This fighter is ditching last-gen consoles and will launch on PS5, Xbox Series X/S, PC, and, most surprisingly, Nintendo Switch.
Trailers Mortal Kombat 1 - Official Announce Trailer | PS5 Games Gaming Horror games have an interesting lineage. Most gamers' first real exposure to what we consider the template for "modern" horror was the original Resident Evil or, perhaps, Silent Hill. However, even those games had clear influences. One was a somewhat obscure Japanese game called Sweet Home, but in terms of 3D horror, Alone in the Dark was an experience like nothing else. Based on the unique cosmic horror writing of H.P. Lovecraft, this series, unfortunately, saw a fast fall from grace with the arrival of its sequels.
Despite a few leaks, most were still caught off guard by the announcement that Alone in the Dark would not only be coming back, but the new game would apparently be a reboot of the series that aims to take it back to its survival-horror roots. There are nearly as many mysteries surrounding the revival of this historic IP as there are in its narrative, but we've braved the dark corners of the internet to bring you everything we know about Alone in the Dark.
Release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
