Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features The Talos Principle 2 is shaping up to be 2023’s can’t-miss puzzle game By Tomas Franzese Close It’s been a fantastic year for puzzle games, thanks to titles like Viewfinder , Humanity, Fantavision 202X , and Storyteller.
 This run of engaging puzzlers isn’t over yet, though, as one of the year’s most ambitious puzzle games, both thematically and mechanically, hasn’t come out yet. I’m talking about The Talos Principle 2 from Croteam and Devolver Digital, a long-awaited sequel that I got a hands-off look at ahead of Gamescom.
Complex themes Even more complex puzzles During the hands-off presentation, developers from Croteam walked me through multiple puzzles while explaining many of the sequel’s mechanics, as well as its difficulty curve and thematic inspirations. Even though I haven’t gotten a chance to try it for myself yet, this early look reveals that The Talos Principle 2 is a must-play upcoming puzzle game.
Complex themes The original Talos Principle launched in 2014 and stood out because of its sobering, humanist story about AI learning what it means to be human. Underneath those intriguing themes was an entertaining puzzle game that felt inspired by greats like Portal.
The Talos Principle 2 amps up everything about the original when it comes to both narrative and themes. This time, players are the 1,000th robot to be awakened from the virtual simulation that was the entirety of the first game and part of this sequel’s tutorial. Once awake, players discover that these AI have started to rebuild civilization in a city they call New Jerusalem, but this new society is debating whether or not to stop letting new machines awaken now that there are 1,000 residents.
Don’t ignore Spider-Man 2’s side missions. They’re the best parts of the game You can’t play Baldur’s Gate 3 on Xbox, but you can play these 6 Game Pass RPGs PlayStation VR2’s best launch game isn’t the one you we’re expecting That’s interrupted when a mysterious new island appears in the sky, and players are sent there with a crew to get to the bottom of why it appeared. Like its predecessor, Croteam tells Digital Trends that The Talos Principle 2 is a humanist story, albeit one that focuses more on what makes a group of sentient beings a society and what it means to be part of one. The narrative elements of The Talos Principle 2 all seem more front and center, with a cast of other characters that join the player on their adventure to a mysterious island and even choices that can change the course of the narrative.
Devolver Digital The Talos Principle 2’s societal themes feel quite relevant nowadays because we’ve seen how society reacted to a pandemic (which some fans jokingly blamed The Talos Principle for). Of course, the AI-focused story also stands out considering a recent influx of machine learning technology and discourse surrounding its use.
Lead writer Jonas Kyratzes tells Digital Trends that Croteam wrote the main narrative beats before either of those cultural moments happened, so Croteam didn’t make this game in response to any of those. Still, he acknowledges The Talos Principle 2’s relevancy to current events.
“I think they’re an extension of things that were already happening in civilization: phobias around technology, a sense that we don’t have political control of the events in our lives, and that decisions are just made for us,” Kyratzes tells Digital Trends. Intriguing stories are usually just the cherry on top of a compelling puzzle game, but it looks like Croteam’s once again trying to put a whole fruit salad on top of there.
Even more complex puzzles Once players arrive on the mysterious island, they discover a lot of puzzles that require solving to get deeper into the island. Here, the excellent puzzle design from the original returns, albeit with a lot more tools. Our live gameplay demo hopped around different parts of the game so Croteam could give us a taste of some of the tools players have to complete puzzles with.
Devolver Digital Lightbeam-based puzzles return, but this time, they’re mostly centered around a new tool called the RGB Convertor, which combines the colors of two sources to create a beam of a third color. So, if a green switch needs to be activated, players have to connect the RGB convertor to a red source and a blue source. Bring multiple RGB converters into the mix, and players must carefully think about which color beams they need to create and where to place the convertors to solve the puzzle.
Because color plays such an important role in many of the game’s puzzles, that raises the question of whether or not color-blind players will be able to enjoy the game. While none of the developers on hand could go into specifics, and I didn’t see it in action, a PR representative for Croteam and Devolver Digital said there will be accessibility options to help color-blind players at launch. While that RGB Convertor mechanic alone could sustain an entire puzzle game, The Talos Principle 2 is far from a one-trick pony when it comes to the puzzle mechanics it uses.
Throughout the rest of the demo, I saw many other tools and abilities players can use. Tools include teleporters, drillers that make holes in particular walls, banks where players can swap items, fans, and activators that create large volumetric fields. There are also abilities like mind transfer, which lets players switch the body they control, and gravity tricks. Some puzzles, especially the more introductory ones, use only one mechanic, but The Talos Principle 2 demo started to shine when Croteam’s handcrafted puzzles combined these mechanics in exciting ways.
Devolver Digital This puzzle complexity might make The Talos Principle 2 seem intimidating, and those feelings might be a exacerbated by the fact that the first game’s difficulty curve was exponential in the difficult direction. Croteam claims that’s not the case this time around. Each area of the game requires players to beat eight puzzles to progress. The eight main puzzles all slowly grow in complexity, but there are also some hidden puzzles players can find and complete that count toward progression. Players can also use Prometheus Sparks found while exploring to skip any puzzle they find particularly difficult and will earn puzzles back if they ever discover how to solve what they skipped.
While this sequel has been a long time coming, it seems worth the wait. Tons of exciting new ideas lend themselves to captivating puzzles, as the more lenient difficulty curve and relevant themes should entice players to stick around. If you’re a fan of puzzle games , you need to make sure you don’t miss out on playing this one before the year ends.
The Talos Principle 2 launches for PC, PlayStation 5 , and Xbox Series X /S later this year.
Editors' Recommendations This year’s biggest Game Awards snub is this can’t-miss shooter The Talos Principle 2 already has me feeling like a scientific genius 7 excellent game deals you can’t miss during Steam’s Xbox publisher sale The best indie hidden gems of 2022: 10 excellent games you can’t miss I can’t stop thinking about Immortality, 2022’s most ambitious game Features Gaming I was thrilled when I learned that one of PSVR’s best games, Moss, was getting a sequel. Moss: Book 2 launched on March 31, continuing the adventures of the game’s adorable mouse hero. I was eager to dive in, but I was less excited by the hoops I’d need to go through to accomplish it. Namely, it would mean dusting off my PS VR.
After setting up my headset for the first time in well over a year -- and making a mess of my entertainment center in the process -- the PlayStation VR2 can’t come soon enough. It feels like a waste to play great games on a headset that’s about to become obsolete.
A long, long setup If you’ve never set up a PS VR before, you might be surprised by how complicated the process is. The headset, which launched in 2016, was already a bit of a mess to hook up at the time. The convoluted setup only sticks out more than six years later, especially next to something as elegant as the Meta Quest 2.
Gaming Patience is finally paying off for Metroid fans. Metroid Dread, the first original 2D Metroid game in 19 years, lands on Nintendo Switch this October. All players have to do is hang tight for another two months -- though that somehow feels even more excruciating than the nearly two-decade wait. There’s only so many times you can replay Super Metroid to fill the time.
Axiom Verge 2 - Launch Trailer - Nintendo Switch Gaming The PC Gaming Show at E3 2021 had a ton of games for viewers to take in -- one could even argue that it bordered on too many. There were titles for everyone: Hardcore RPGs, management sims both on Earth and in outer space, and tons of shooters for players to wear down their keyboards and mice.
While the show, presented by PC Gamer, had a ton of great games, there's simply too many to list them all in one place. Instead, here are some of the highlights of 2021's PC Gaming Show.
They Always Run Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
