Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features The Walking Dead: All 10 seasons, ranked By Christine Persaud Close Never has a show jumped a proverbial shark only to land ever so steadily and tread water for a few seasons, then rise above once again like The Walking Dead.
 If you’re one of the viewers who stuck with the show through its lowest points , you will have reaped the benefits of the big pay-off that came after the post-apocalyptic series hit its stride once again.
10. Season 8 9. Season 7 8. Season 6 7. Season 2 6. Season 10 5. Season 9 4. Season 1 3. Season 5 2. Season 4 1. Season 3 The Walking Dead ‘s earliest seasons drew viewers into emotional, heart-wrenching scenes, shocking them with copious amounts of action and gore, and built characters who fans became deeply invested in as the story arcs developed. Following some questionable middle seasons, the show returned to its initial appeal thanks to reinvigorated elements that made it fresh and exciting once again.
With the apocalyptic show coming to an end with its 11th season, it’s the perfect time to take a walk down memory lane and look at the previous 10 seasons to see how they stack up against one another. Here they are, ranked from worst to best.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 10. Season 8 The conflict with the Saviors is finally resolved in this season, but the wait was too long, making the slashing of Negan’s throat and the takedown of his group almost anti-climactic. Adding insult to injury, Rick decides to spare Negan’s life, leaving fans to wonder what might be coming next for the character they felt had long run his course. Fans were angered by Carl’s shocking death, right after he had finally come into his own as a character, especially since he had such a big role in the comics on which the show is based.
All The Purge movies, ranked from worst to best All the Fast & Furious movies, ranked from worst to best Maggie and Negan unite in The Walking Dead: Dead City’s new trailer The return of the character Morales was more puzzling than exciting as most fans scrambled to Google who he even was. Eugene, who had been ambling along as a proud albeit reluctant new member of the Saviors, has the only redeeming moment of the season when he proves his true loyalties by sabotaging the ammo that was to take out Rick and friends. The season, dubbed the lowest rated one on Rotten Tomatoes by critics and audiences alike, also saw the death of Shiva, which was unforgivable in most fans’ eyes.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 9. Season 7 By the time the huge climax teased in season 6 finally aired in season 7, fans had already spent months speculating who would meet the end of Negan’s bat. It was finally revealed to be not one, but two people: Abraham and Glenn. The scene was so brutal, so gratuitously violent, that many die-hard fans declared their intent to boycott the show. It’s no surprise, then, that this season ranks among the worst. The Saviors reign and the group’s plans to attack and take over was drawn out too long, with every episode presenting an opportunity for closure that went unfulfilled. Fan-favorite character Daryl spent much of the season in captivity, Sasha sacrificed herself for the group, and Jadis proved an unfulfilling adversary (her character had far more nuance in the short-lived spin-off series Walking Dead: World Beyond ). It was a season where you just kept waiting and waiting for something to happen that never did.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 8. Season 6 Fans learn what Morgan had been up to all this time (learning Aikido, apparently, and a new way of life that involved refusing to kill), Carl loses an eye, and in come the Saviors. It’s the first major introduction of Negan, who would become the show’s most compelling villain and the group’s most formidable challenger. He runs the vicinity like a mafia boss, taking what he needs and offering protection in exchange, though only until he feels like someone doesn’t follow his orders, at which point he makes an example out of them. There was a massive build-up to a huge character death scene only to fail to reveal who it was until season 7 resumed months later, leaving fans more angry and disappointed than excited with the cliffhanger.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 7. Season 2 The scene with Sophia’s undead body ambling towards the group out of Hershel’s barn and Carol falling to her knees in despair remains one of the most bone-chilling, emotional ones ever on the show. Much of the season isn’t as exciting and action-packed as others as it focuses on the group finding safe haven at Hershel’s farm along with the infighting between Rick and Shane, both of whom believe they should be the alpha male to lead the group. It’s the first time, however, that fans see innocent people killed and a pivotal moment that flips a proverbial maturity switch in Carl when he shoots an undead Shane to save his father. There’s also that big reveal that everybody turns when they die (nope, no one knew this in season 1), which becomes a game-changing piece of knowledge for the group. It’s this dreadful realization that opens their eyes to the fact that this problem isn’t going away any time soon. Arguably the best part of the season is the reveal of one of the most bad-ass characters on the show, Michonne.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 6. Season 10 The Walking Dead really hit its stride once again in season 9, and the momentum kept going through season 10. Fans see the mental trauma of losing so many children finally getting to Carol. She makes a critical error that gets everyone stuck in a cave and almost kills Connie. This is the season featuring that trippy, psychedelic episode with Michonne trapped in a room, drugged by Virgil. Fans loved seeing the redemption arc for Negan, who joins The Whisperers undercover, unbeknownst to anyone but Carol. Eugene makes contact with another group and a potential love interest using a radio, marking the first rumors of The Commonwealth making its way to the show.
Meanwhile, members of the group come across a quirky new character, Princess who adds much-needed comic relief to the otherwise dark and ominous show. It’s at the end of this season as well that fans finally get to see Negan’s backstory and a first look at the latest villainous group, The Reapers. The tone of the season flips back and forth between high action and slow burn, but it offers a nice enough balance to make it enjoyable the entire way through.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 5. Season 9 The villain that dominated the show for so many seasons had finally been reduced to a shell of a man. This season also saw the presumed death and exit of its long-time protagonist, Rick Grimes, as well as the first major time jump that picks up six years later. Baby Judith, now a pre-teen, proves to be an incredibly engaging and likable character, trained under the tutelage of her adoptive mother Michonne to become a fiercely talented fighter and confident little girl. A new set of characters are introduced, including Connie, Magna, Yumiko, and Luke, while fan favorites meet their end, including Jesus.
But what really makes this season among the best is the introduction of one of the scariest villain groups of the show, The Whisperers, including their formidable leader, Alpha, and her visceral number-two, Beta. They live off the land, roaming around with the dead wearing masks made from the pulled skin of walkers. In what many call the show’s Red Wedding moment, Alpha kills some of the most beloved characters, Tara, Enid, and Henry, mounting their decapitated and still animated heads on stakes to mark a boundary between her and the group. It kicks off a fierce battle between Alpha and alpha-mom Carol and fans couldn’t get enough of it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 4. Season 1 There’s so much nostalgia in the inaugural season, which kicked off the entire series. Fans were introduced to characters like Rick Grimes, Daryl Dixon, Glenn Rhee, and Carol Peletier, who would become mainstays through much of and, in some cases, the entire show’s run. It was raw and exciting as fans had never seen such violence, gore, and incredible prosthetics work on a small TV show that didn’t launch with much fanfare. The term “walkers” (no zombies here) became part of everyday vernacular and fans felt every emotion as members of the group did whatever was necessary to survive.
What was most memorable about the season was how so many people from all walks of life came together. The story focused on the people and the difficult decisions they had to make, not just brainless zombies in perpetual search of warm flesh. This was the season before everyone honed their crafts, built their confidence, and understood how to navigate the new world: it was just a group of regular Joes trying to figure things out. Fans knew immediately that they wanted to be in it for the long haul.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 3. Season 5 The highest-rated season according to Rotten Tomatoes, with an impressive 90% , season 5 flips back and forth between the hospital where Beth is being held captive and vindicates fan-favorite character Carol, who comes to the rescue of the group, redeeming herself after being banished. Father Gabriel, who went on to have one of the most compelling character arcs on the show, is introduced as a bumbling, cowardly priest who locked his entire congregation out of the church to keep himself safe. So much went on this season, from Beth’s tragic death to the group getting a taste of normalcy in Alexandria, and Rick’s brutal killing of Pete, just as Morgan reappears on the show to witness the heinous act.
The season is rife with main character deaths, each handled in a unique and interesting way. Bob gets the last laugh, revealing to Gareth and his Terminus pals that his amputated leg they’re eating is infected since he had already been bitten. A bitten and dying Tyreese sees flashbacks of important moments in his life before he perishes. And Noah dies in one of the most gruesome scenes as he pleads for his life to an agonized Glenn who is unable to help him. The season ends with the introduction of one of the least compelling groups of villains, The Wolves, but for the most part, it’s an emotional, exciting, captivating one.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 2. Season 4 Hershel’s death scene was one of the cruelest of the show, and it was a pivotal moment in season 4. It’s the first time the show splits the group into smaller ones as everyone goes different ways in all the chaos. Abraham, Rosita, and Eugene are introduced, providing the first glimmer of hope when Eugene implies that he may know where and how to find a cure (spoiler alert: He didn’t). The journey to Terminus begins here, and while it seems to end as quickly as it starts, it’s the end of the season where the “old Rick” emerges that got fans excited for what was to come. The most memorable moment from the season is, however, Carol delivering those desperately sad five words, “Just look at the flowers,” to Lizzie. It’s a heartbreaking moment, one that caps a terrific season full of excellent character development.
AMC 1. Season 3 Fans call Negan one of the best antagonists and the most multi-layered character on the show. Indeed, the season 10 episode with his backstory is one of the best pieces of cinematic work the show has produced. But there’s no denying that for early fans, The Governor was the ultimate foe, offering the first look at how an apocalyptic scenario, tremendous loss, potential for power, and threats to one’s life can slowly turn the most seemingly level-headed person into a terrifying tyrant.
The setting was a prison, where the group lives as best they can until The Governor decides he wants to take the property over. T-Dog sacrificing himself to save Carol had fans clutching their hearts while fan-favorite villain/hero Merle meeting his bitter end led to the first bit of raw emotion fans got to see from the otherwise stoic Daryl. It was an action-packed season that saw the end of Lori, the birth of Judith, and the introduction of Sasha and Tyreese. While many villains have come since, seeing the group fight someone who was more powerful and always a few steps ahead of them, was new to Rick and Co. at the time. The fact that the scenario was fresh and original for the group made season 3 one of the most exciting to watch, and the one worth watching again.
Editors' Recommendations Paramount+ launches Tis the Season for Streaming holiday collection Silo season 1’s ending, explained All the villains in the Fast and Furious movies, ranked from worst to best 10 box office bombs that are now cult classics 10 2023 TV shows you need to watch now Features Entertainment The premiere of Scream 6 has brought back tons of familiar faces, with Gale Weathers carrying on the torch from the original trilogy, Kirby returning from Scream 4, and the survivors of 2022's Scream all together again ... this time in New York City. But, as the franchise continues, so does its shock factor. In the trailer alone we saw Ghostface wielding a shotgun and plowing down an entire bodega, making it clear from the start that the movie is more extreme than ever before.
But, surprisingly, the movie's kill count isn't that high. Unlike the new Halloween trilogy, where Michael Myers chops up 20 to 30 people (or more) per movie, Scream 6 took the franchise back to its roots, where it's not about how many people are killed, but more about how suspenseful and terrifying those kills are. Read on to find out what Scream 6's best kills are, but beware ... this article contains spoilers.
5. Anika (Devyn Nekoda) Entertainment After nine decades, the Oscars, also known as the Academy Awards, remains the most prestigious show in the film community. It's the Super Bowl for movies as Hollywood's best and brightest stars meet under one roof to celebrate the year in film. Winning an Oscar, or even being nominated for an Oscar, can change someone's career overnight.
Because the ceremony is live, anything can happen. Sometimes, a heartwarming speech like Bong Joon-ho's in 2020 goes viral for all the right reasons. In other cases, like the 2022 Oscars, a slap by the eventual winner for Best Actor becomes one of the most talked about moments in the show's history for all the wrong reasons.
Entertainment Over the course of its time on the air, Stranger Things has delivered fans a lineup of pretty excellent creatures. Some of those creatures have proven to be more menacing than others, but all of them have posed a threat of one kind or another to the residents of Hawkins.
Now, with the full knowledge of who Vecna really is, we know that all of these creatures are extensions of him in one form or another. Even so, that doesn't make any of them less threatening in their own right. With all that in mind, we've ranked the many monsters of Stranger Things from best to worst.
7. Demodogs Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
