Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Features Everything announced at Nintendo’s April 2023 Indie World showcase By Tomas Franzese Close Today, Nintendo held another Indie World showcase, where it showed off a lot of neat-looking indie games coming to Nintendo Switch over the next several months. This April 19 showcase didn’t have any shocking announcements, but some successors to enjoyable indie games like Crypt of the Necrodancer and Blasphemous were revealed, and multiple games were shadow-dropped. If you’re looking for a roundup of everything that was shown off, we have that right here for you.
Rift of the Necrodancer was announced Five Nights at Freddy’s: Security Breach and more get shadow-dropped Blasphemous 2 was revealed Oxenfree 2: Lost Signals gets a release date Everything else Rift of the Necrodancer was announced Brace Yourself Games is one of the premier rhythm game developers thanks to titles like Crypt of the Necrodancer and Cadence of Hyrule , and it announced a new game today. Titled Rift of the Necrodancer , this is a lane-based game where players rhythmically attack the monsters that come down each lane. The game also features minigames that more closely resemble the Rhythm Heaven series.
Rift of the Necrodancer will be released later this year.
Five Nights at Freddy’s: Security Breach and more get shadow-dropped As is to be expected with any Nintendo presentation, some games were shadow-dropped today. The most notable of these games was a port of the popular horror game Five Nights at Freddy’s: Security Breach , but that wasn’t the only game released today. Magnetism platformers Telsagrad Remastered and Teslagrad 2 , as well as supernatural comedy RPG Shadows of Loathing , are also available today.
Blasphemous 2 was revealed The Game Kitchen’s Blasphemous made a name for itself as one of the most brutal Metroidvania’s of the last decade, both in visual style and gameplay. During today’s Indie World, the team revealed that is are at work on a sequel where players explore a place cursed by something ironically called The Miracle. When it comes to gameplay, players can expect three new weapons and will encounter weapon memories that expand their moveset.
Blasphemous 2 will be released this summer.
Oxenfree 2: Lost Signals gets a release date Night School Studios and Netflix’s horror-adventure game Oxenfree 2: Lost Signals has been in the works for quite a while, and it finally got a release date during today’s Indie World showcase. We learned that Oxenfree 2: Lost Signals , which takes place five years after the events of the original and follows a woman named Camena investigating mysterious radio signals, will come out on July 12. This release date also applies to the PC, Mac, PlayStation 4, PS5 , and mobile versions of the game.
Everything else Mineko’s Night Market launches on September 26.
Pathea Games showed off My Time at Sandrock , a desert-themed sequel to farming sim My Time at Portia that is coming out sometime this summer.
Overcooked-like PlateUp! launches this October.
Digital board game Quilts & Cats of Calico launches this fall.
A Little to the Left: Cupboards & Drawers DLC launches in June.
Shovel Knight Pocket Dungeon’s free DLC Puzzle Pack comes out this spring.
Cult of the Lamb’s Relics of the Old Faith update will be released on April 24.
Animal Well is coming to Nintendo Switch in early 2024.
Time-bending crime puzzle game Crime O’Clock comes out on June 30.
Paper Trail launches this August.
Little Kitty, Big City will be released in 2024.
Chants of Sennaar got a September 5 release date.
Brotato will be released sometime in 2023.
Escape Academy: The Complete Edition comes to Switch this fall.
Jet Set Radio spiritual successor Bomb Rush Cyberfunk finally got a firm release date: August 18.
Editors' Recommendations Indie World Showcase November 2023: How to watch and what to expect Everything announced at the February 2023 Nintendo Direct Everything announced at the February 2022 Nintendo Direct Oxenfree 2 and more new games announced at Nintendo Indie World Showcase Exit the Gungeon’s stealth release highlights Nintendo’s Indie World Showcase Features Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Nintendo kicked off the Gamescom 2019 festivities this year with its Indie World showcase, a recorded video presentation that features trailers and details on nearly 30 different upcoming Switch games. Some of these titles are potential sleeper hits, while others are acclaimed indie games coming to Switch for the first time. If you missed out on the action, we've compiled some of the biggest titles announced below along with a list of all the other indie games shown during the presentation.
Ori and the Blind Forest: Definitive Edition Ori and the Blind Forest - Announcement Trailer - Nintendo Switch The Xbox and PC exclusive Ori and the Blind Forest seemed like a perfect fit for the handheld Switch, and Microsoft seems to have thought so, too. Ori and the Blind Forest: Definitive Edition is the same great action-platformer released on the other systems, playable for the first time on a Nintendo console. It arrives on the Switch on September 27.
Eastward Eastward - Announcement Trailer Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
