Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides How to play Mario Kart 8 online with friends By Jesse Lennox Close Multiplayer games began as purely local events. If you wanted to play with, or against, your friends, there was no other option than to get together either at someone's house or, if you're going even further back in time, at a local arcade. While playing locally is still a great way to play, it isn't always an option. Online multiplayer is not only more convenient most of the time, but it has become the norm for nearly all modern multiplayer games.
How to play Mario Kart 8 online with friends How to join friends online Difficulty Duration What You Need Mario Kart 8 Nintendo Switch Online subscription Internet connection Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is not only one of the most popular games on the Nintendo Switch but also one of the best games to play with friends.
 This fun racer is appropriate for gamers of all ages and skill levels, making it just as popular today as it was back when it launched on the WiiU. Thanks to online play, the competition never has to end. However, Nintendo has yet to really make its online service as intuitive as it is on other platforms, leading to some confusion about how to party up with your friends. If you want to do some laps with your friends online in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe , here's how to set it all up.
Further reading The best racing games for Nintendo Switch The best games on Nintendo Switch Online The best party games for Nintendo Switch Image used with permission by copyright holder How to play Mario Kart 8 online with friends Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is great fun alone, but eventually, playing against the AI will get stale. That's when playing against your friends comes in to add some much-needed variety and challenge to your races. When friends are far away, though, local multiplayer isn't an option, and you need to jump online to burn some rubber together. Here's how to get set up to play with friends online in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.
Step 1: Boot up Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and select Online play from the main menu.
Step 2: Select Friends.
Best armor and weapons in Super Mario RPG and where to find them All Melody Bay song solutions in Super Mario RPG Mario Kart 8 Deluxe’s final DLC brings the series most iconic track Step 3: Select Create room and select your character.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Any friends will now be able to join your room. Unfortunately, you cannot directly invite your friends to join your room in the game itself.
How to join friends online If your friend is the one to set up the room to play online, joining is quite simple.
Step 1: Follow the same steps as before up until you are on the Create Room screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Under the Friends tab, any friend you have currently in a lobby will have a checkered flag icon next to their name.
Step 3: Select that friend and hit Join.
In addition to regular races and cups, you can also host Tournaments online with your friends as well. This is done just like creating a lobby, only Tournaments will require a code that you pass along to friends in order for them to join you.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked Super Mario RPG: Sunken Ship password solution Super Mario RPG is halfway between a remaster and remake It’s Super Mario Bros. Wonder’s subtle changes that make it special All Captain Toad locations in Super Mario Bros. Wonder How-To Guides Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming If you've got a Nintendo Switch Online subscription, Super Mario Bros. Wonder features a wide variety of online multiplayer functionalities, including the ability to see other players around the world playing alongside you and to lay down standees for them to use for revival in their own games. But more importantly, the game offers full-fledged online multiplayer with friends, allowing you to connect and explore the overworld and individual stages together as if you were seated on the same couch! You can even engage in races against your pals by hitting the Race Block at the beginning of many stages. Here's how to get started playing Super Mario Bros. Wonder online with friends.
Gaming Super Mario Bros. Wonder is home to so many creative levels teeming with unique gameplay mechanics that we've never seen in the Mario franchise, but it also features some of the most challenging head-scratchers in the series' history. As you make your way through the game's various worlds, you'll come across Search Party stages, which task you with finding extraordinarily well-hidden Wonder Tokens within a small, but densely packed area. One of the toughest of these trials is the Pipe Park level in Sunbaked Desert. If you're struggling to round up all of the hidden Wonder Tokens in this stage, we'll give you the details below so you can add another Wonder Seed to your collection.
Wonder Token No. 1 Head to the very top left of the level. There is a pipe here that you can push to grant you enough height to jump over the partially off-screen pipe on the left. You'll find the first Wonder Token on the other side.
Wonder Token No. 2 Return to the beginning of the level and go down the sixth pipe from the left. This pipe leads you to a new room. There is a hidden pipe located on the left on the bottom floor here, which will take you to the forefront of the room and allow you to pick up the second Wonder Token.
Gaming Super Mario Bros. Wonder is overflowing with things to collect, secrets to uncover, and plenty of new mechanics to discover and use. Among the fresh additions to the franchise in this outing is its badge system, which allows you to select a perk of sorts at the beginning of a match. However, to use the badges, you'll first need to find them throughout Super Mario Bros. Wonder's various challenges and Poplin Shops. When it comes to unlocking the final badge, though, you'll have to put in quite a bit of extra work. Here's what you'll need to do to score the quirky "Sound Off?" badge, which has a pretty funny and unique action attached to it.
How to get the final badge To get the final badge in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, you'll need to unlock a very well-hidden secret final level called The Final-Final Test Badge Marathon. Based on our testing, unlocking this ultra-challenging stage requires you to meet the following criteria: Collect every Wonder Seed Collect every 10-flower coin Grab the top of every flagpole Complete all other Special World stages Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
