Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Project Bloom: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more By Jesse Lennox Close Game Freak is undoubtedly known first and foremost as the developer of almost every Pokemon game (outside of a few remakes and spinoffs). However, this team has made several non-monster-catching titles in the past and is now gearing up to make something very different. Currently known as Project Bloom, this new game is still very early on in its production cycle, but plenty of exciting details are out there. If you’re curious about what Game Freak has cooking outside of its most famous franchise, here’s everything we know about Project Bloom.
Release date speculation Platforms Trailers Gameplay Preorder Release date speculation We have only one clue as to when Project Bloom will be ready — and that’s quite a while from now. Aside from the lack of an official title being a big clue, Private Division, which is publishing the title, did state in the game’s announcement that “ Project Bloom is in early development and does not yet have an announced release date. It is expected to launch during Take-Two’s Fiscal Year 2026.” Take-Two’s fiscal year ends in March, so that means, as of now, the game is expected to arrive sometime before March 31, 2026.
Platforms Again, no concrete platforms are announced currently, but considering Project Bloom will be published by Private Division, it is almost certain that it will come to all consoles, such as PlayStation 5 , Xbox Series X /S, and PC. Switch is also possible, but that’s too hard to call at this time.
Trailers Gamefreak There are no trailers out yet, and just a single piece of concept art to tide us over. In it, we see a single swordsman, who appears to be a samurai, in a wooded area. This implies that it will be set in ancient Japan, but all we can do is speculate based on the lone image.
Aside from that, the announcement did specify that it will be an action-adventure title, which is a big change from Game Freak’s normal turn-based RPGs.
Gameplay Aside from being some form of an action-adventure game, how Project Bloom will play is a complete mystery. If we had to guess based on a single piece of art, it will be a third-person action-adventure game, perhaps somewhat like Ghost of Tsushima, but again, this is all complete guesswork.
Preorder Project Bloom is still waiting for a proper title, let alone a release date, so preorders are going to be quite a ways off. As we approach Take-Two’s fiscal year 2026 and preorder information comes out, you’ll be the first to know.
Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more GTA 6: release date speculation, trailer, news, rumors, and more RoboCop: Rogue City: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Cities: Skylines 2: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Dishonored 3: release date window, rumors, and more Tech News Gaming We all knew Final Fantasy 7 Remake was just the beginning, but had no idea how long we would have to wait for the next part, or even how many parts this incredibly ambitious project would end up spanning. Since fans have been begging Square Enix to remake what is quite possibly the most popular and most important JRPG of all time for years, there was obviously a lot of pressure on the studio to get it right. While there was plenty of skepticism regarding the first part changing so much about the core formula, once we had it in our hands, it became almost universally praised.
After Remake, there was next to no news on when Cloud and his ragtag team's adventure would continue. That is, not until the 25th anniversary of the original PlayStation 1 game, when Square Enix dropped a ton of info on us all at once. The biggest news was obviously the official reveal of Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth, the second part in what we now know to be a trilogy of titles. Since then, we've collected all the info drops as they've occurred. Here's everything we know about Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth.
Gaming Spider-Man is one of the most recognizable superheroes in the world. His popularity in media is hard to overstate, as he is the focus of ongoing films, comics, multiple animated series, and, of course, video games. The web-slinger has been on home consoles ever since the Atari days, and each new generation has given us better and better games. The most recent game, Marvel's Spider-Man, which paired the comic book hero with the perfect developer (Insomniac Games) to handle this acrobatic, sarcastic neighborhood hero, was a smash-hit in every respect. Critics praised it, fans loved it, and it sold like crazy. Plus, it probably was a major contributing factor in Sony's outright purchase of the studio. Naturally, we all knew a sequel had to be coming.
When the PlayStation 5 launched, we got a standalone expansion of sorts in Spider-Man: Miles Morales, which let us play as the new spider on the block in his own story. Now the focus has been set on the proper, full sequel, which looks to take everything from the original game and the expansion and combine it all into a truly amazing new Spider-Man (Spider-Men?) title. We've only had a handful of looks at the game, but we've used our spider senses to untangle all the information there is about Marvel's Spider-Man 2.
Release date Gaming The Elder Scrolls 6 was first revealed five years ago with a 36-second announcement trailer. Unfortunately, there hasn't been a lot of concrete news on the title since.
Now that Bethesda has launched Starfield — the developer's first brand-new IP in 25 years — with great success despite plenty of criticism on the game's advertised scale versus its gameplay, it goes without saying that the studio will be shifting to the next installment in the Elder Scrolls series. The new title will be building off the wild success of its predecessor Skyrim (which made the cut for Digital Trends' top 50 video games of all time) and MMO The Elder Scrolls Online.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
