Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features If you love Wordle and Connections, Puzzmo may be your next daily obsession By Giovanni Colantonio Close Angie Wang If you’ve added puzzle games like Wordle and Connections to your routine in the past year, you might have another daily obsession coming your way. Puzzmo is a new platform that brings the idea of a newspaper puzzle page to a responsive web page that works across devices. Players can sign up to join the free platform today, which also features a $40 annual subscription option that unlocks bonus features like experimental games and leaderboards.
Your one-stop for puzzle games A puzzle community The ambitious new project is a collaboration between Orta Therox and Zach Gage, a game designer who’s gained popularity over the years with mobile titles like Knotwords and Good Sudoku.
 His latest project has been in the works for years, and it acts as a sort of one-stop shop for Gage’s puzzle catalog that looks to beat popular hubs like The New York Times at their own game.
Ahead of its soft launch today that enables players to sign up for a waitlist, Gage took me on a tour the platform and dove into the philosophy behind it. The idea isn’t just to create another web game hub in a sea of them, but rather a definitive home for puzzle lovers that combines the lightning in a bottle phenomenon of games like Wordle with community features that drive some of today’s most popular games. It’s a seemingly obvious solution to a problem even some of gaming’s biggest power players have yet to crack.
Move over, Wordle: The New York Times has a new puzzle game Wordle is now playable on New York Times Crossword app Wordle is getting its own board game adaptation from Hasbro Your one-stop for puzzle games Puzzmo is a free web page that responsively scales to cleanly display on tablets and mobile devices, but the twist is that it’s structured like a magazine page. When players log in, they’ll see a selection of puzzle widgets laid out in columns. Clicking into one will open that day’s puzzles, and any progress made will be displayed when navigating back to the homepage. That replicates the experience of solving a newspaper’s puzzle section and seeing the results memorialized in pencil. It doesn’t just include some existing games by Gage like Really Bad Chess , but a selection of new games too, with more to be added over time.
When dreaming up exactly how Puzzmo might work, Gage was trying to solve multiple challenges at once. He wanted to make a platform that made it as easy as possible to not only start playing a game, but to dive into a totally new one too. To accomplish that, he looked to a secret weapon that print media still held over most game websites.
“I thought back and was like, my mom doesn’t care about games — I mean, she likes my games, but she doesn’t care about games,” Gage tells Digital Trends. “But growing up, she tried new games. And where did I see that? Well, it was in the newspaper, because she played the crossword. But she didn’t just play the crossword; she played other stuff. I think that was because she’d do the crossword and then the other stuff was just there. And after a month of it being there, you get comfortable with it and think ‘eh, I’ll give it a shot!’ Even companies that are making newspaper game pages on the internet are not taking this aspect of the paper that is crucially important.” Puzzmo At launch, Puzzmo features six games. Three of those are existing Gage games: Really Bad Chess , TypeShift , and SpellTower.
 The latter two are easy to understand word games that take no more than a few minutes to complete each day. On top of that, the launch version of Puzzmo brings three brand new titles.
Flipart is a satisfying puzzle game that has players trying to fit a handful of shapes neatly into a rectangular frame.
Wordbind is an anagram game that’s currently listed as an experiment for paid subscribers only.
For those familiar with Gage’s previous work, the most exciting addition is his own spin on the classic crossword puzzle. Dubbed Cross|Word , the game iterates on the classic puzzle in some key ways. For one, lines on the board denote how many separate words are in an answer, which makes it much easier to figure out long, tricky answers. Each clue also comes with a hint that’s more straightforward (when I get stuck on “Dough that’s inedible?” I reveal the more straightforward “Dollars, pounds, yen, etc”). Gage explains that the goal of that isn’t to make puzzles easier, but to help players better understand “crossword culture” and the language of hints logic. As an added bonus, it helps level the playing field for older players who might not be as up to date on some of its current pop cultural clues.
“The crosswords that we’re running are not just good crosswords, but really modern ones that reflect how people are these days,” Gage says. “We’re trying to come up with something that feels like it’s not about golf and yachts and plays. We want to be able to do something that’s more rooted in contemporary culture. And that makes our hint button serve a dual purpose, because if you’re new to crosswords, you can use these hints. But if you’ve been solving crosswords for a long time, we have a lot of content that you might not be familiar with, so these hints are helping you access this newer culture.” Gage plans to bring even more games to the platform over time, including hits like Knotwords and Good Sudoku.
Games won’t rotate in and out either; the selection will just keep growing over time.
A puzzle community Culture is a key concept that comes up a few times as Gage tells me about Puzzmo. The team behind it didn’t simply want to create a solitary experience that placed players in a vacuum as they solved the daily crossword. Rather, Gage wanted to take some ideas from popular multiplayer games and imagine how they could work in the context of a puzzle hub.
“If you play Call of Duty or Roblox or Minecraft, these places are designed to be community spaces where you go and hang out with your friends,” Gage says. “And if you’re the kind of person who plays the crossword or Wordle every day, those games have been popular enough that they’ve created ad hoc communities, but there isn’t really a place for people who like those games. So we started thinking about what that kind of place would look like.” As a result of that thinking, Puzzmo includes several features that even giants like The New York Times haven’t cracked. For instance, the platform includes global leaderboards for every game. A feed in the top-right side of the page shows different accolades from the community, like what user got the highest scoring word on SpellTower the day before. There’s even a chat function that lets players talk to their friends while they play.
Perhaps the most exciting aspect is its multiplayer integration. Players can form groups on the platform that allow them to track their collective stats. Even more impressive is that every game features instant live multiplayer. In a guided demo, Gage opened up the day’s Flipart puzzle. With the click of a button, he generated a link and sent it over to me. Upon opening it, I was instantly dropped into Gage’s puzzle, where we could both click around together. It’s a perfect trick for couples who want to work on a digital crossword puzzle together without fighting over the phone.
Each of those social features makes Puzzmo feel like a logical home for puzzle game fanatics following Wordle ’s eye-opening success. It takes everything that makes Gage’s bite-sized games so appealing and unites them into an ingenious newspaper format that’s perfectly built to be a breakfast companion. Don’t be surprised if The New York Times copies some of its answers a few months from now.
You can sign up to join Puzzmo starting today. It’s free to start playing, though players can unlock extra features with an annual subscription.
Editors' Recommendations NYT Connections today: answers and hints for Friday, November 17 Wordle’s wild year: New York Times breaks down the phenomenon’s big 2022 Wordle destroyed my marriage for 20 minutes New York Times’ new WordleBot tool will sharpen your Wordle skills Today’s Wordle answer changed due to Roe v. Wade Features Wordle Gaming For a few golden months, Wordle was the most talked-about game of the year. The ingenious word game had a simple premise, tasking players to guess a five-letter word each day in six guesses. The short daily time commitment and an easy to understand puzzle premise made it an instant phenomenon -- so much so that the New York Times acquired it. Though after months of Twitter score sharing and countless clones, the fad seems to have died down for now.
If you're looking for a new daily puzzle game to fill that void, Knotwords is the game for you.
Gaming Wordle, a popular word-based puzzle game that's dominated social media feeds in recent months, was acquired by The New York Times Company on January 31. It was the second significant gaming-related acquisition of the day, following Sony's $3.6 billion acquisition of Destiny developer Bungie.
The New York Times did not share the specific price of the acquisition, but did say in its announcement that it paid creator Josh Wardle an amount "in the low seven figures." That's a much smaller figure than Sony's acquisition, but Wordle likely reaches a lot more people than even Destiny 2 currently does.
Wordle is simple, engaging, and easy to share on social media. Image used with permission by copyright holder While The New York Times is primarily a news publication, it has expanded into casual gaming in recent years. "The Times remains focused on becoming the essential subscription for every English-speaking person seeking to understand and engage with the world," its article on the deal said. "New York Times Games are a key part of that strategy." Wardle claims New York Times Games played a part in the October 2021 creation of Wordle, adding that "this step feels very natural to me." It sounds like The New York Times could eventually put Wordle behind a paywall. "The company said the game would initially remain free to new and existing players," The New York Times article notes, with "initially" being the keyword there. Thankfully, Wardle promises that Wordle will still be free and that wins and streaks will be preserved once the game transitions to The New York Times' website.
https://twitter.com/powerlanguish/status/1488263944309731329 The New York Times highlights how it wants to grow its digital subscriptions to 10 million by 2025. Locking Wordle behind that subscription would undoubtedly drive some people to subscribe, but The New York Times also risks Wordle losing relevancy and upsetting a happy player base if it does that.
That's not something we'll have to worry about for now, as Worlde is still available for free online.
Gaming We've had a dancing game and musou spinoff, but now the Persona 5 cast has entered the realm of tactics with Persona 5 Tactica. The translation feels obvious when you think about it, but naturally, there have to be some changes to make it fit. For fans of the original JRPG, experimenting with the new combat system will take a little getting used to, especially relearning what skills are best. This game is quite friendly to those who are not as well-versed in the genre and allows you to try out your build and completely rework it if you need to. If you've invested your GP in some skills you're unhappy with, here's how you can respec in Persona 5 Tactica.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica Each character has their own skill tree that you can invest your GP into for buffs and skills. The way you invest early on can make the first few hours either much more difficult or a smoother experience. If you're feeling some buyer's remorse, respecing any character is not only easy, but can be done as many times as you like at no cost.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
