Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Wordle fans, WordleBot has a new recommended opening guess By Trevor Mogg Close Wordle’s WordleBot has come up with a new opening word that’s supposed to give you the best possible start to your games.
The new recommended word is the result of an upgrade to WordleBot’s algorithm announced by the game’s owner, The New York Times (NYT), on Wednesday, August 17.
Introduced in April, WordleBot is designed to help you hone your Wordle skills so that you’ll spend less time pulling your hair out when you can’t find the solution as quickly as you’d like.
If you love Wordle and Connections, Puzzmo may be your next daily obsession Fortnite’s new ranked mode is great, unless you’re a Zero Build fan Best Wordle starting words, tips, and tricks WordleBot assesses each of your guesses in any given game and then offers concise analysis and useful tips — as well as a slew of stats — that are designed to help you up your game.
So what exactly is WordleBot’s new recommended opening word? Slate , replacing crane.
Actually, it has two recommended words, one for Wordle’s regular mode ( slate ) and another for hard mode: Least , replacing dealt.
The NYT says that crane and dealt are still “outstanding opening guesses,” explaining that the difference between the recommended opening guess and the next best option is actually minuscule.
The news outlet said that WordleBot came up with the new recommended starting word after it made a number of alterations to the way the bot works.
“The biggest change since we introduced the bot four months ago is its solving method,” the NYT explained.
 “WordleBot no longer knows the 2,300-word Wordle solution list, putting it on a more even footing with humans. Instead, it assigns roughly 4,500 relatively common English words a probability of being a Wordle solution, based on what it has observed about the words that have been solutions so far.” It added that the more common a word is (according to how often it’s appeared in the NYT since 2010), the more likely it is to be a Wordle solution. “On the other hand, plural nouns and past-tense verbs have rarely been solutions, so the bot considers these words to be less likely,” it said.
It noted that WordleBot’s estimates aren’t perfect but added that it should get better, with the improvements certain to lead to new recommendations for the opening word over time.
While Wordle itself is free , WordleBot’s wisdom is not. The most cost-efficient way to get full access to WordleBot is via Times Games, which costs 75 cents a week, billed at $3 every four weeks.
Wordle quickly became a global phenomenon when it hit the web late last year as a daily word challenge. Created by Welsh software engineer John Wardle, the game’s popularity prompted the NYT to buy the rights to it for more than a million dollars in January.
Editors' Recommendations Wordle Today (#882): Wordle answer and hints for November 17 Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 has instant open-world character switching Move over, Wordle: The New York Times has a new puzzle game Wordle’s wild year: New York Times breaks down the phenomenon’s big 2022 EA Origin has been replaced with a new, faster PC app Tech News Wordle Gaming The New York Times announced that Wordle is now playable within The New York Times Crossword app on Android and iOS. Players can access the popular word guessing game in the same app as three other games: The Crossword (the app's namesake), The Mini Crossword, and Spelling Bee.
https://twitter.com/NYTGames/status/1562470378483888130 Gaming Grand Theft Auto Online is getting a new free update titled The Criminal Enterprises on July 26. This new update hits close to home, as gas prices have soared amid a blistering heat wave throughout Los Santos. Because of this, businesses around the city have taken advantage in order to turn a prophet, leading to larger payouts for players.
The Criminal Enterprises, Coming July 26 to GTA Online Gaming Hasbro has announced it is collaborating with The New York Times to create a Wordle: The Party Game, the board game adaptation of the uber-popular mobile word game. The gameplay is the same, but it's being brought to players "in an all new way that's perfect for game night with family and friends," according to a press release.
In this version of Wordle, one player is designated as the Wordle Host in each round and writes down the secret five-letter word. The other players have to compete against each other to guess the word in six tries or less, with the winner being the player that scores the fewest points by the end of the game.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
