Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Features ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could By Jacob Roach Close Microsoft is testing out a new “Compact Mode” for its Xbox app on Windows 11.
 The mode is currently available to Xbox Insiders, and it shrinks the sidebar in the Xbox app to provide a clearer view into the main window.
Do it my way A dedicated game mode A step is still a step It’s not a big deal on its own, but it’s clearly a move by Microsoft to make Windows 11 easier to use on devices like the Asus ROG Ally and Lenovo Legion Go.
 It’s a step in the right direction, but we need more radical changes to the Xbox app if Microsoft has any hope of making it a destination for not only Xbox Game Pass, but handheld PC gaming devices.
Do it my way Microsoft A big part of the problem with the Xbox app currently is how siloed it is. Microsoft’s approach to Xbox features on Windows has been to make them a one-stop shop for all of your PC gaming needs. You have the Xbox app to launch your games, which you can do entirely with a controller, and Xbox Game Bar to view your online friends, system status, achievements, and so much more. You can even press the Xbox button your controller and pull up the Game Bar, just like on a console! What more could you want? A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new This simple keyboard shortcut could save you when installing Windows 11 I review PCs for a living — here are the apps I install on every device Any PC gamer knows this is more of a pain point than a perk of playing on Windows. Overlays conflict with each other from the disparate distribution services PC gamers need to step through, and when you want your controller to control an app on Windows, Xbox takes over when you don’t want it to. It seems Microsoft wants the Xbox app to be an inclusive solution for PC gaming, but it continues to ignore the many ways that PC gamers play, separating the app from everything else and often causing a string of conflicts in the process.
The solution starts with the app recognizing that it is not, and it will never be, a true all-in-one solution for PC gaming on Windows. Most PC players have the bulk of their library stashed on Steam, and as we continue to see competitors like the Epic Games Store and publisher-exclusive launchers like the EA app, the library of a PC gamer is only becoming more fragmented. Microsoft could bring that all together into a single, unified launcher by allowing you to add your other games to the Xbox app.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends This would be a huge boost to devices like the ROG Ally, which are currently in a frustrating state where you sometimes need to jump through several launchers just to play a game. If you could choose one launcher and play all of your PC games through it, using Windows 11 on a handheld would be a lot less tedious. It would even benefit desktops, especially if you want to set up your PC on a TV and play with a controller.
The idea of adding non-Xbox games to the Xbox app isn’t a crazy concept. Xbox already hooks into the EA app and Ubisoft Connect for Game Pass titles, and platforms like Steam and GOG Galaxy allow you to add basically any program to your library. That’s with the ironic exception of Xbox games. You can’t add Xbox games to Steam without a program like UWPHook. It’s decisions like these that make the Xbox app feel at war with itself, wanting to provide PC gamers with everything they need on the one hand, while needlessly restricting what you can do your games on the other.
Microsoft’s approach with the Xbox app doesn’t feel dissimilar to how Microsoft approaches its Edge browser — you don’t have to use Edge, but Microsoft will make sure you know it exists. A simple UI tweak in the form of Compact Mode looks downright silly when you factor in this larger issue with the Xbox app on Windows. It’s a step in the right direction, but we should expect more from an app that’s more than four years old that came from a $2 trillion company.
A dedicated game mode Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Support for non-Xbox games is the first step, but for the Xbox app to truly shine on handhelds (and desktop, for that matter), it needs to go further. Microsoft needs to take the Xbox app full-screen.
Currently, the Xbox app is just a window. It’s a window you can navigate with a controller, but a window nonetheless. It isn’t out of the question for Microsoft to add some sort of “game mode” to Windows 11, allowing you to immediately jump into a full-screen view of the Xbox app without messing with the typical Windows login screen or landing on the desktop.
This is truly what Windows is missing for handheld devices — something akin to Steam’s Big Picture mode. I know quite a few people, myself included, who completely bypass the Xbox app and just use Steam Big Picture mode on the ROG Ally. Having something similar that you could launch directly into when starting your PC would be a game changer.
It’s important that a feature like this comes after support for non-Xbox games, though. A full-screen version of the Xbox app only works if you don’t have to go out to your desktop to launch other games, so we need support for other games in the Xbox app first. This is truly what’s missing from Windows for handheld devices, but it falls apart if you’re restricted to Game Pass titles alone.
A step is still a step Jacob Roach / Digital Trends For as many issues as I have with the Xbox app on Windows, I’m genuinely happy to see Microsoft taking the handheld gaming experience a little more seriously with Compact Mode. It might be the bare minimum in terms of what we should expect out of the app, but at least it’s something that improves the user experience.
Hopefully, Microsoft will continue that trend, and maybe one day, the Xbox app will be a critical part of not only handheld gaming PCs , but gaming PCs as a whole. It looks like that’s the goal. The day Microsoft released Compact Mode to Xbox Insiders, it renewed its commitment to that community , highlighting that it wanted to “improve communications” and discuss “with everyone more about the first actionable steps in our plans.” To top it off, the Insider team said it “can’t wait to show everyone what we have in store.” That could mean Compact Mode is just a hint of a design overhaul coming down the pike. I’m sure Microsoft is continuing to work on the Xbox app, but features like support for non-Xbox games and a full-screen mode should be at the top of the priority list.
Editors' Recommendations What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore I replaced my PC with the Asus ROG Ally. Here’s what surprised me I can’t believe my favorite new keyboard came from a phone company Features Microsoft Microsoft Windows PC PC Gaming Windows 11 Xbox Computing Windows 11 is finally creating a solution for the multitude of RGB apps that clutter most gaming PCs. The long-rumored feature is with Windows Insiders now through Build 23475, which Windows announced in a blog post on Wednesday.
The feature, called Dynamic Lighting, looks to unify all of the different apps and devices that use RGB lighting so you don't have to bounce between several different apps. More importantly, Microsoft is doing so through the open HID LampArray standard, which makes it compatible with a long list of devices. Microsoft says it already has partnerships with Acer, Asus, HP, HyperX, Logitech, Razer, and Twinkly to support Dynamic Lighting.
Computing OLED gaming monitors are all the rage this year. I've reviewed nearly all the best of them, and although we're getting more, I have a pretty good idea about what 2023 holds in this developing space.
And yet, I still haven't found a display that trounces last year's Alienware 34 QD-OLED. I'm not going to pretend it's perfect -- I've complained about its insistent burn-in prompts in the past, for example. But it's the gold standard, and as I'll explain, its strengths go beyond what you can see on a spec sheet.
It's not a TV, it's a monitor Computing I'm excited about Asus' upcoming ROG Ally gaming handheld, and mainly for one reason: Windows 11. The device comes with a spec bump over the Steam Deck, and I won't argue with RGB lighting around my thumbsticks, but Windows is what makes the ROG Ally truly stand out.
With Windows, you don't have to worry about a verification program to play your games -- even if Valve has handled the Steam Deck Verified program very well -- and you can access other app stores. And, of course, there's Xbox Game Pass.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
