Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Guides How to get Severed Hands in Lords of the Fallen and where to donate them By Billy Givens Close Lords of the Fallen offers both cooperative and competitive play, and if you’re mostly in it for the latter, you’ll want to know all about Severed Hands and the Shrine of Adyr, which is where you’ll need to take them to earn yourself some rewards for all of your slaying. Read on to find out how to get Severed Hands and where to find the Shrine of Adyr.
How to get Severed Hands Where to donate Severed Hands How to get Severed Hands Severed Hands are obtained by defeating other players in PVP. This can be achieved by slaying someone who has invaded your game or by invading and taking down another person in their game by using the invasion option at a vestige. Once you have some Severed Hands, you’ll need to track down the Shrine of Adyr.
Where to donate Severed Hands You can donate your Severed Hands to the Shrine of Adyr. This shrine won’t be accessible early in the game, so you’ll need to progress through the Forsaken Fen before you’re able to visit it.
Where to find planes in Fortnite OG The best perks in Modern Warfare 3 All charm locations and effects in Alan Wake 2 To reach the Shrine of Adyr, make your way to the bridge where you face off against the Ruiner boss. On this bridge is an Umbral entity blocking a path you can only see while in the Umbral Realm. You can cleanse the entity by passing under the archway on the opposite side of the bridge and soulflaying a spot on the backside of it.
CI Games With the Umbral entity cleared and while still residing in the Umbral Realm, head back to the middle of the bridge and clear some boxes to find a spot where you can jump down onto some platforms. Do so, then carefully make your way across by jumping from platform to platform.
CI Games Eventually, you will reach a large platform filled with pods. Ahead is another Umbral entity blocking your way through, but you can look up and to the right to see another spot you can soulflay to open your way forward.
CI Games Climb up the ladder ahead, check the right side of this area to knock another ladder down as a shortcut, and then continue down the linear path towards the giant shrine in the distance taking out any enemies along the way – noting that there’s a well-hidden flame hound waiting right inside the entrance to the shrine. Inside, you’ll find the Shrine of Adyr, as well as a vestige you can activate to make it easy to return any time you need to unload your Severed Hands for donations or purchases.
CI Games Donations of Severed Hands will work towards filling a bar that is contributed to by all players within the Lords of the Fallen community. As this bar fills more and more, it’ll reach new tiers, providing you with more stuff to buy with your Severed Hands, so keep up the donations for the good of all players.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music How to play split screen in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 Should you pick Claude or Rena in Star Ocean: The Second Story R How to show all collectibles in Alan Wake 2 with the Mayor Setter Charm How to get every ending in Lords of the Fallen How-To Guides Microsoft Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Xbox Gaming Marvel's Spider-Man 2 is bigger, bolder, and better in nearly every way compared to its two predecessors, offering new and expansive sections of New York City to explore during your quest for 100% completion. But if you're also looking to earn every trophy the game has to offer to earn the coveted Platinum, you've probably noticed a bronze trophy called "Home Run!" that asks you to run the bases at Big Apple Ballers Stadium. You don't have to hit a homer to score this trophy, but you do need to take a lap around the bases, so we'll tell you where to find Big Apple Ballers Stadium below so you can start living out your baseball legend dreams.
Where to find Big Apple Ballers Stadium Big Apple Ballers Stadium is located in Downtown Brooklyn, which can be found at the very bottom of the southeast portion of the map. While it's a little difficult to make out the stadium on the map, you'll definitely be able to recognize it in-game as you swing closer, as it's quite a large stadium located not too far from the amusement park you visit as part of the story.
Of course, finding the stadium is only part of the equation for getting the Home Run! trophy. Once you reach the stadium, make your way to home plate and then run the bases in a counter-clockwise fashion (home, first, second, third, home) as if you'd just hit a home run.
Gaming In the decades that the character of Spider-Man has existed, through comics, TV shows, games, and movies, he's gone through quite a few suits. Spider-Man 2 keeps the tradition alive by not only giving him a new suit to try out, but dozens and dozens of older ones to let you play as your favorite version of the webslinger. Oh, and did we mention Miles has his own extensive set of suits as well? Just like the first game, you won't be handed the keys to the wardrobe for free. Each suit not only needs to be unlocked but also crafted using City and Hero Tokens, as well as Tech parts to get access to the additional styles most suits have. If you're itching to dress up as the Spider-Man of your dreams as soon as you can, here is every suit in Spider-Man 2 and how you unlock them.
Note: Some suits are unlocked via story progress and could be considered spoilers. You have been warned.
All suits in Spider-Man 2 Gaming Is there any doubt that Peter Parker and Miles Morales are heroes by the time Spider-Man 2 takes place? As goofy as it sounds, you will still need to prove your hero status by earning what are known as Hero Tokens. Just like City Tokens, these are more conceptual objects than actual tokens, but are still required for some of the higher-level upgrades and unlocks for your tools in the game. Still, not every heroic action is deemed worthy of getting you Hero Tokens. If you want to know all the activities to collect as many as you can in Spider-Man 2, we've narrowed down your search.
How to get Hero Tokens There are plenty of options for you to get Hero Tokens, but the most efficient are the Mysteriums. Also known as Mysterium dev diaries, these unlock after you meet Mysterio in the story and then they start to populate the map. There are only 10 of these, and they each consist of time trials that rank you based on time. Earning a gold will get you two Hero Tokens, while silver and bronze award you just one. So long as you're a skilled player and can get a gold time in one or two attempts, this is easily the fastest method to get these tokens. For one, you obviously have to go fast here, but when you get a gold, you also get the rewards for the two ranks below, so each Mysterium is really worth four tokens if you can master it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
