Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Guides Where to get the Sunless Skein Key in Lords of the Fallen By Billy Givens Close Lords of the Fallen has an abundance of shortcuts to find throughout its vast and densely-packed levels, but they’re often locked behind doors that require you to round up specific keys to unlock them. Such is the case with the Sunless Skein Key, which you won’t be able to find until pretty far into your adventure. As a matter of fact, it’s probable that you’ll come across a door asking for this key well before you actually find it. Luckily, Lords of the Fallen’s interconnected world means you’ll almost certainly come back across those doors later in your journey anyway. When you’re ready to seek out and add the Sunless Skein Key to your key ring, check below for everything you need to know.
Where to get the Sunless Skein Key The Sunless Skein Key is found relatively late in the game while exploring an area known as, well, Sunless Skein. This dark and dreary area is filled with baddies and will take some time to work your way through, but you’ll eventually reach the Hoist vestige, which will put you pretty close to getting your hands on the key.
From the Hoist vestige, exit the small room out the way you first entered it, taking an immediate left towards the nearby lever.
CI Games Go past this lever and over to a bridge you can lower as a shortcut to the other side. Cross over this bridge and continue straight through to the cavern until you reach a new room.
CI Games Defeat the enemies here and pass through the small archway ahead. In this next room, you’ll notice a lot of cages everywhere, but there’s also a ladder to the right of the area which you can climb to reach a lever you’ll need to pull.
CI Games While you’re up here, look across to an item on a cage on the opposite side of the walkway from the lever. This just so happens to be the key you’ve come here to snag. You won’t be able to jump to the key, however. Instead, break out your Umbral Lamp and slowly walk across the pathway that it creates. On the other side, you can finally grab the Sunless Skein Key.
CI Games With the Sunless Skein Key finally added to your inventory, you can now open a handful of different doors you’ll come across as you continue exploring, allowing you to create shortcuts and access new areas throughout the game world.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music How to play split screen in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 Should you pick Claude or Rena in Star Ocean: The Second Story R How to show all collectibles in Alan Wake 2 with the Mayor Setter Charm How to get every ending in Lords of the Fallen How-To Guides Microsoft Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Xbox Gaming Amid all the different tokens, memories, and photo-ops you need to collect in Marvel's Spider-Man 2, the one material that is both the most common and most necessary is Tech Parts. With the exception of your abilities, which only require skill points you earn by leveling up, essentially everything you can unlock or upgrade in the game will cost Tech Parts alongside one other material. You might think you will never run low early on when you start getting them in batches of over 100 at a time, but once you start unlocking all the slick new suits and styles and gadgets you want to upgrade, you'll realize just how desperate you are to get more. Your spider-sense can't help you with this one, so here are the best ways you can get Tech Parts in Spider-Man 2.
Best ways to get Tech Parts Tech Parts are the most basic upgrade component in Spider-Man 2, and the city is full of them. But you're better off using these methods to get them rather than others.
Gaming Madden NFL Football is one of the most popular video game franchises of all time, and today its newest iteration — Madden NFL 24 — is seeing a massive discount. You can get Madden NFL 24 for just $43 at Amazon right now, and it’s available at that price for both the Xbox Series X and the PlayStation 5. The game regularly costs $70, making this deal worth a savings of $27. Free shipping is included with a purchase as well.
Why you should buy Madden NFL 24 The Madden NFL video game franchise is a staple in sports gaming, with previous versions of the game still among the best sports games on Xbox Series X. Madden NFL 24 advances the franchise significantly, bringing what’s known as Sapien Technology to the game. It’s a leap forward in character technology and makes the football players within the game more responsive and truer to player motion in real life. This also brings improvements in gameplay realism, as it tends to feel more lifelike as you control the players in different ways. Madden’s FieldSENSE also provides an enhanced gameplay foundation that gives you greater control.
Gaming Like any good game in the Soulslike genre, Lords of the Fallen is filled with intricate explorable areas featuring branching pathways and well-hidden secrets. To uncover them all, you'll have to take things slow and be extremely thorough, but even if you're checking every nook and cranny, you'll occasionally find that you're missing an important item or key needed to pass through specific barriers. For instance, early in the game while exploring Pilgrim's Perch, you may come across a door or two that requires a Pilgrim's Perch Key, which you actually won't be able to find in the area itself. Don't worry, though – we'll tell you where to get it below.
Where to get the Pilgrim's Perch key The Pilgrim's Perch Key can be purchased for 9,500 Vigor from Stomund, Captain of the Fidelis in Skyrest. You can find this NPC standing to the right of the vestige, but he'll only start selling you items after you've exhausted all of his initial dialogue, so be sure to speak with him multiple times if you haven't already.
It's perfectly reasonable to see the cost of the Pilgrim's Perch Key and feel a bit overwhelmed – that's an absolutely staggering amount of Vigor to obtain early in the game. However, it shouldn't take too long to farm it up, especially if you use our favorite XP farming spot a bit further into Pilgrim's Perch. Plus, the cost will be worth it, as you'll be able to open various doors throughout Pilgrim's Perch that lead you to new areas and rewards.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
