Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Xbox Elite Series 2 controller is over $40 off for Prime Day By Aaron Mamiit Close Microsoft PC and Xbox gamers who want to upgrade their controller on a tight budget should consider the Microsoft Xbox Elite Series 2 Core wireless controller, which is on sale from Walmart’s own Prime Day deals to combat Amazon’s Prime Big Deal Days 2023. From its original price of $130, it’s down to an affordable $88 following a $42 discount. You’re going to have to hurry with your purchase though — with the popularity of this gaming accessory, we’re not if stocks will still be available by tomorrow.
Why you should buy the Microsoft Xbox Elite Series 2 Core wireless controller The Microsoft Xbox Elite Series 2 Core wireless controller , designed for the PC and Xbox platforms including the Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S , is the budget version of the Microsoft Xbox Elite Series 2 wireless controller.
 The main difference between the two versions is that the Microsoft Xbox Elite Series 2 Core comes with fewer accessories — just the thumbstick adjustment tool and a USB-C cable. The Microsoft Xbox Elite Series 2, in comparison, also comes with a charging dock, extra paddles, thumbsticks, and a D-pad, plus a carrying case. If you just want to get the controller for the improved gaming experience, then the Microsoft Xbox Elite Series 2 Core is an excellent choice.
You’ll be able to enjoy limitless customization with the Microsoft Xbox Elite Series 2 Core wireless controller through the Xbox Accessories app, through which you can access button mapping options, save up to three custom profiles that you can switch on the fly, and even change the colors of the buttons’ lights. The controller can last up to 40 hours on a single charge, and you can recharge the Microsoft Xbox Elite Series 2 Core through a USB-C cable.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
The Microsoft Xbox Elite Series 2 Core wireless controller is an amazing accessory for the PC and Xbox platforms, and it’s a steal at its discounted price of $88 from Walmart after a $42 discount on its sticker price of $130. We don’t think it’s going to stay this cheap for a long time as stocks may already be running low, so if you’re already looking forward to all the benefits that you can enjoy from upgrading to the Microsoft Xbox Elite Series 2 Core, don’t hesitate with the purchase — buy it right now.
Editors' Recommendations Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories Save $70 on the Xbox Series X with Forza Horizon 5 This Samsung 28-inch 4K gaming monitor is $250 off today Save $60 on this Xbox Series X bundle with Diablo 4 Add 1TB of storage to your Xbox Series S or Series X and save 41% Deals Amazon Microsoft Xbox Gaming The prices of games for the PlayStation 5 have steadily increased, with the best PS5 games costing $70 for base editions and more than $100 for special editions. Fortunately, with the arrival of Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023 and the return of Prime Day deals, other retailers are also offering PS5 game deals. One of the top sources for discounts is Best Buy, which has slashed the prices of some of the best RPGs for PS5 and best PS5 games for kids. We've selected our top picks from the sale, but you should also take a look at what else will catch your eye.
To start us off, we have some of the most popular games on sale right now, such as Elden Ring for Computing If you're still missing a screen for your gaming PC setup, you should check out the 34-inch Acer Nitro XZ342CU curved gaming monitor. From its original price of $370, it's down to only $307 after a $63 discount from Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023. This display can give justice to the capabilities of the best gaming PCs, and with the return of Prime Day deals, you can get it for much cheaper the usual. You'll need to hurry with your purchase if you don't want to miss out on the bargain, though, as stocks may not last long.
Why you should buy the Acer Nitro XZ342CU curved gaming monitor To maximize the power of your gaming desktop, you'll want a screen like the Acer Nitro XZ342CU curved gaming monitor. Its 34-inch screen offers Quad HD resolution, which will allow you to better appreciate the graphics of the best PC games through sharp details and lifelike colors. The monitor also offers an up to 165Hz refresh rate, which is explained by our computer monitor buying guide as to how often the images on the display are updated, and a 1ms response time, which is how fast image transitions are shown.
Gaming With all of the Prime Day deals taking place today, you won’t want to overlook this deal at Walmart. It’s one of the best Xbox Series X and Series S deals you’ll find for Prime Day, and it sees the Xbox Series S console going for just $269. This is a $30 savings from its regular price of $299, and this is the Gilded Hunter Xbox Series S Bundle, which means you’ll be getting all sorts of Fortnite, Rocket League, and Fall Guys freebies included with the console.
Why you should buy the Microsoft Xbox Series S Microsoft has been making the Xbox gaming console for decades now, with each new generation improving its capabilities and form factor. With the Xbox Series S Microsoft offers some modern minimalism, as it’s the Xbox model that doesn’t have a disc player. This is a fully digital gaming console, and it comes with 512GB of solid state storage space for housing all of your favorite Xbox games. Much of the gameplay on the Xbox Series S can be done through Xbox Game Pass, where you can access hundreds of high quality games online. You can also purchase downloadable version of your favorite games.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
