Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Save $60 on this Xbox Series X bundle with Diablo 4 By Aaron Mamiit Close Hanif Jackson / Digital Trends If you were planning to buy a new video game console from Amazon’s Prime Big Deal Days 2023 but you missed them for some reason, don’t worry because some of the Prime Day deals that other retailers launched are still online. Here’s one of those offers — the Microsoft Xbox Series X with Diablo 4 bundle for just $500, following a $60 discount from Best Buy on its original price of $560. We’re not sure how long it will stay cheaper than usual though, so if you’re interested, you’re going to have to push through with the transaction as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the Microsoft Xbox Series X The Microsoft Xbox Series X is an extremely powerful video game console with 12 teraflops of raw graphic processing power, DirectX ray tracing , and gameplay of up to 120 frames per second. The 1TB capacity gives you plenty of space for your favorite titles and save data. You should check out the best Xbox Series X games to pick out the ones that interest you, and it’s also highly recommended that you sign up for Xbox Game Pass so you’ll have a massive library of streaming titles.
If you’re going to start your journey on the Microsoft Xbox Series X , Diablo 4 is a great choice. The hack-and-slash RPG offers a deeply engaging story that will place you in the middle of the endless fight between the High Heavens and the Burning Hells, an extremely robust character customization system with unique classes, and frenetic combat that will keep you at the edge of your seat at all times. Additionally, Diablo 4 multiplayer should keep you hooked for months to come.
Gamers who have been on the lookout for Xbox Series X and Series S deals during October Prime Day have more time to take advantage of Best Buy’s $60 discount for the Microsoft Xbox Series X 1TB Diablo 4 bundle, which is down to only $500 from $560 originally. We don’t think the potential savings will stay online for much longer though, so if you want to get the Microsoft Xbox Series X 1TB Diablo 4 bundle for cheaper than usual, there’s no time to waste — add it to your cart and check out immediately.
Editors' Recommendations Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories The best gaming chair Black Friday deals you can shop now The 17-inch Razer Blade gaming laptop $1,200 off right now Madden NFL 24 for PS5 and Xbox Series X is 39% off This Samsung 28-inch 4K gaming monitor is $250 off today Deals Amazon Microsoft Xbox Computing Pairing your gaming PC with a top-quality gaming monitor is a necessity if you want to give justice to its power. Don't worry if you missed Amazon's October Prime Day deals because there's still an amazing offer that's available from Best Buy -- the 45-inch LG UltraGear OLED curved gaming monitor with a $400 discount that pulls its price down to $1,300 from $1,700. It's still not cheap, but once you start playing your favorite video games on this display, you'll wish you've purchased it earlier. Buy it now while you can get it for a more affordable price than usual.
Why you should buy the 45-inch LG UltraGear OLED curved gaming monitor The 45-inch LG UltraGear OLED curved gaming monitor features the brand's OLED technology, which can create perfect blacks, offer wide viewing angles, and enable ultra-fast refresh rates and response times. Our computer monitor buying guide explains refresh rate as how often the images on the screen are updated, while response time is how quickly image transitions are showed. At 240Hz and 0.03ms, respectively, for the 45-inch LG UltraGear OLED curved gaming monitor, you'll experience smooth and lag-free gameplay that will elevate the overall gaming experience.
Computing Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023 may be over, but some Prime Day deals for gaming laptops remain available, even from other retailers like Best Buy. Here's one that you should have an eye on -- the HP Victus 15 gaming laptop for just $600, following a $200 discount on its original price of $800. The budget device isn't going to stay much cheaper for long, so if you're interested, you should be proceeding with the transaction already, or else you might miss out on the savings.
Why you should buy the HP Victus 15 The HP Victus 15 is a more affordable option compared to the highest tiers of the best gaming laptops, so you shouldn't expect similar performance. However, with its AMD Ryzen 5 7535HS processor, NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM, it's enough to play the best PC games, though you will have to select the lowest settings for some of the more demanding titles. That's not a bad trade-off for a gaming laptop that's at least half-price compared to other choices in the market.
Gaming If you read our list of best expansion drives for the Xbox series X, then you'll know that there really is only one way to expand the storage, and that's with the Seagate-specific expansion card. Unfortunately, even other forms of external hard drives don't really let you play games off of them, mostly just being there as a form of storage. Luckily, there are a lot of great Prime Day deals going on right now, and that includes the Seagate expansion card. In fact, you can grab the 1TB version from Amazon for $130 instead of the regular $220, which is a substantial discount.
Why you should buy the 1TB Seagate storage expansion card The big advantage of having a very specific expansion card that works is that it can use Microsoft's Xbox Velocity Architecture, which is its own unique framework for building storage devices that run quickly. More specifically, they allow storage devices to sort of function as RAM or a Blu-ray disc so that the console is reading data off the hard drive at really fast speeds. That means you don't have to rely on discs to play the game, but more importantly, it means that you have almost no loading screens, and it also allows the quick pause functionality that lets you jump into a game almost immediately after putting your Xbox to sleep, which is neat.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
