Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Everything announced at the Xbox Partner Preview By Tomas Franzese Close Xbox Microsoft held its first-ever Xbox Partner Preview event today. During the Nintendo Direct-like showcase, we got a look at some of the most notable third-party games coming to Xbox Series X and Xbox Series X in the coming months. RGG Studios’ Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth , Remedy Entertainment’s Alan Wake 2 , Studio Wildcard’s Ark: Survival Ascended , and Microbird Games’ Dungeons of Hinterberg all made appearances at the event. There were some surprises too, as Microsoft previously indicated on Xbox Wire.
 The biggest of those? Our first look at Metal Gear Solid 3 Delta gameplay.
Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth features an Animal Crossing-like minigame Dungeons of Hinterberg shows its social side in a new trailer Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater runs on Unreal Engine 5 Ark: Survival Ascended looks gorgeous in gameplay reveal New Alan Wake 2 gameplay dives into horror Everything else It’s a show that Xbox Game Pass subscribers and general fans of the platform should check out. If you just want the broad strokes, though, here’s everything that was shown during the 30-minute event.
Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth features an Animal Crossing-like minigame RGG Studios’ Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth got a new trailer to kick off the Xbox Partner Preview, and it was mainly focused on highlighting one of the weird side activities that players can do during the RPG adventure. The main one featured in this trailer was Dondoko Island, which is an Animal Crossing-like minigame that takes Ichiban to another island where he can build a house, meet tourists, fight intruders, and customize the island in various ways.
Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth is out on January 26, 2024, and a demo of the game is included with Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name , which comes out next month.
Dungeons of Hinterberg shows its social side in a new trailer Dungeons of Hinterberg is a charming indie game that was revealed at the Xbox Game Showcase back in June, and we got a new look at it during today’s Xbox Partner Preview. The game’s new trailer focused on highlighting the game’s “social world,” which means they showed the gameplay systems that take place when players return to one of the game’s villages after an adventure, which mainly includes raising relationship levels with various characters.
Dungeons of Hinterberg will be released on Xbox Series X next year.
Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater runs on Unreal Engine 5 Konami surprised Metal Gear fans by providing the first in-engine look at Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater , a remake of the third game in the Metal Gear Solid series. We see many iconic locations from early on in the game, and they all look gorgeous. That makes sense, as this trailer also confirms that Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater’s game engine is Unreal Engine 5.
Ark: Survival Ascended looks gorgeous in gameplay reveal Ark: Survival Ascended is the upgraded Unreal Engine 5 version of Studio Wildcard’s popular survival crafting game with dinosaurs Ark: Survival Evolved.
 While the developer teased this upgrade for a while, we didn’t get a first look at gameplay until today, as a new trailer showed off many of the beautiful environments and creatures players can expect to encounter as they play Ark: Survival Ascended.
New Alan Wake 2 gameplay dives into horror Remedy Entertainment debuted a new trailer for Alan Wake 2 , which comes out this Friday. Following the clip, it shared a new gameplay snippet, which showed new protagonist Saga Anderson fighting off a grotesque Taken in a house. The clip showcased the bloodier combat system and some survival horror jump scares. It ends with her turning on a record, which seemingly opens a portal into the mysterious Overlap. It’s still looking like a slick, confident survival horror game.
Everything else Powerwash Simulator developer FuturLab and Thunderful revealed Ikaro: Will Not Die.
We got an extended look at gameplay for the horror title Still Wakes the Deep, which launches in early 2024.
RoboCop: Rogue City got a launch trailer.
Spirit of the North 2 was revealed.
Manor Lords was revealed and will launch on April 26, 2024.
The Finals was confirmed for Xbox Series X and will hold an open beta on October 26.
Editors' Recommendations Xbox Partner Preview: how to watch and what to expect Features Microsoft Xbox Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Gaming November 19 marks the 25th anniversary of the original Half-Life, and to celebrate, Valve made a special announcement. No, Half-Life 3 was not announced. But Valve celebrated the anniversary with a massive update to the game on PC and a new documentary detailing its development. The best part: It's all available for free.
Half-Life's 25th-anniversary update incorporates the Half-Life: Uplink demo that Valve gave away as a CD via magazine and hardware manufacturer promotions in the 1990s and introduces many multiplayer maps. That includes four brand-new maps -- Contamination, Pool Party, Disposal, and Rocket Frenzy -- and three more maps that were previously only included in the Half-Life: Further Data CD release: Double Cross, Rust Mill, and Xen DM. It's also now possible to play as a Space Biker, Prototype Barney, Skeleton, and Too Much Coffee Man and use dozens of Further Data sprays in Half-Life: Deathmatch.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
