Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station By Digital Trends Staff Close There’s never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount — which we’ll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It’s a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
AC300+B300 with FREE 120v home integration kit — $2,799, was $3,418 AC500 + B300S with FREE PV380W solar panel — $4,799, was $5,298 The New BLUETTI AC200L solar portable power station — $1,499, was $1,699 AC200MAX solar portable power station — $1,299, was $1,599 AC180 solar portable power station — $649, was $999 AC70 portable power station — $499, was $599 AC2A + PV120 solar generator and panel bundle — $399, was $548 For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
AC300+B300 with FREE 120v home integration kit — $2,799, was $3,418 Bluetti This portable power station is able to switch over as your main source of power, during an outage or event, in about 20 milliseconds. That’s fast, but it also ensures you’ll never be left in complete darkness. It offers a scalable capacity through the add-on batteries thanks to the B300, which two to four are able to be connected. Starting at 3,072 watt-hours, you can expand up to 12,288 watt-hours total, enough to charge all your home essentials and appliances like refrigerators, air conditioners, and more. Plus, you can plug in solar panels to charge it via the sun’s sustainable solar energy, up to a total of 2,400 watts of solar charging. This deal comes with the BLUETTI home integration kit for free — a $619 value.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
AC500 + B300S with FREE PV380W solar panel — $4,799, was $5,298 Want to make sure you can run just about anything in your house, from lights and appliances to a home theater system for entertainment? This combo gives you 5000 watts of output or a 3,072-watt-hour capacity, which can power an 800-watt refrigerator for up to three hours during an outage. The capacity is expandable, as well, up to 18,432 watt-hours, plus you get 3000 watts of solar charging capability with a suitable set of solar panels. This deal comes with the PV380 solar panel for free — a $799 value.
The New BLUETTI AC200L solar portable power station — $1,499, was $1,699 Bluetti There’s a lot to love about this portable and sleek newcomer, like its ability to charge rapidly in 90 minutes without any additional adapters required. An ECO mode helps conserve battery life in a pinch, and UPS functionality allows you to ensure the power stays on when you’re in the middle of something important, like work or a good movie. It delivers 2,400 watts of power that can be increased to 3,600 watts in PowerLifting mode. The 2,048-watt-hour capacity can be fully recharged in about two hours using just a 1,200-watt solar charger — how crazy is that? From November 17 through November 30, the AC200L power station is available for a special early-bird price of $1,499. With the exclusive promo code DT20 you can save an extra $20, too.
AC200MAX solar portable power station — $1,299, was $1,599 Bluetti A flagship product, the AC200MAX is excellent for just about any scenario, bug-out or bug-in. In an outage, it has all of your necessities covered, but if you’re hitting the road or off-grid, you’re covered there too. It has a 2,048 watt-hours capacity with 2,200 watts of output, just ideal for RV adventures, van life, and glamping. The front panel features 16 outlets to cover anything you could ever want or need. Plus, the effective 900-watt solar intake means you can charge and power it via solar panels with no interruptions, or you could expand its capacity with a B230 or B300 expansion battery. With extras, you can expand its capacity up to 8,192 watt-hours total.
AC180 solar portable power station — $649, was $999 Bluetti If you need something that breaks the mold when it comes to portability, this is it. The AC180 weighs about 37 pounds, perfect for lugging on a trip or with you on some great adventures. Its counterpart, the AC180P, is also just as portable. Both offer 1,000 watts of power or 2,700 watts in PowerLifting mode. You get either a 1,152-watt-hour capacity in the AC180 or a 1,440-watt-hour capacity in the AC180P, so it’s your choice how much you need. Responsive UPS features offer reliable backups when an outage happens or when the grid is unavailable.
AC70 portable power station — $499, was $599 Bluetti Designed for adventurers and explorers, inspired by , the AC70 is an upgraded version ready for the great outdoors and beyond. It offers 1,000 watts of continuous output, with up to 2,000 watts in PowerLifting mode. The 768-watt-hour capacity is no slouch either, especially for something of this size. You can charge a 15-watt camera up to 45 times or keep a 40-watt CPAP machine powered on for 12 hours. Need more power in a pinch? Connect panels to the 500-watt solar input for a full charge in two hours. Now, that’s impressive. But not quite as impressive as this Black Friday deal.
AC2A + PV120 solar generator and panel bundle — $399, was $548 This bundle is the ultimate power and portability combo to take your adventures to the next level. It comes with the AC2A 204.8-watt-hour capacity portable power station with a 120-watt PV120 solar panel for quick, anywhere solar charging. Despite its compact size, it offers 300 watts of AC power and a 600-watt surge from its manageable battery. Six ports give you options, including a 100-watt USB-C port for fast phone, laptop, or tablet charging. With this set, you can pick up and go anywhere and never have to worry about power again.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Smart Home Portable Power Stations Computing Lenovo is one of the best laptop brands, so you should never pass up a chance to enjoy savings when buying one of its devices -- whether it be Chromebooks, student laptops, office laptops, or gaming laptops. Fortunately, discounts are plenty with this year's Black Friday deals, so even if you're on a tight budget, you'll surely come across an offer that's perfect for you. There may not be enough time for you to go through all of the retailers' websites though, so to help you make your decision on what to buy, we've rounded up our favorite Black Friday laptop deals below. All of the deals below are currently through Lenovo's site, but you can find other good deals, even on Lenovo, in the Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and Amazon Black Friday deals.
Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals Lenovo laptops can be very affordable or expensive, depending on the performance that they provide. That means no matter your needs and how much you're willing to spend, there's a device that will be perfect for you. We're not sure how much time is remaining for you to be able to pocket these savings though, so you should check our laptop buying guide to figure out what you need from the Lenovo laptops that are on sale for Black Friday.
Computing Black Friday deals have brought with them some awesome laptop deals so you can save big on everything from a budget-priced Chromebook to a high-end gaming laptop. We'd be remiss if we didn't also mention the Amazon Black Friday laptop deals guide, there are a lot of good discounts on there, too. If you've been waiting to upgrade your current rig, this is your chance. There are so many options out there that we've picked out some of our favorites so you can easily find the right laptop for your needs and your budget. This list does not include Black Friday MacBook deals, so make sure you check those out too. Here's a look at all the highlights.
Top 3 Black Friday laptop deals HP 17-inch laptop -- $250, was $500 Currently heavily discounted as part of HP laptop Black Friday deals, the HP 17-inch laptop is ideal for anyone on a slim budget. It looks more expensive than it is thanks to having a 17-inch HD+ screen with 1600 x 900 and 250 nits of brightness. That extra room also means the keyboard is roomier with a numeric pad to the right of it that's ideal for entering a lot of data. The laptop has an AMD Athlon Gold 7220U processor along with 8GB of memory and 128GB of SSD storage. It also has a lift-hinge to ensure you can type at a more natural position.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
