Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch In partnership with Home Deals Black Friday Deal: Grab Eureka NEW400 wet-dry vac for cleaning all spills Eureka Vacuums are expensive. Feature-rich vacuums, especially wet-dry vacuums that can handle all spills, are even pricier. Recognizing that there’s a gap in the market for more affordable options, Eureka has delivered one for under $200. Get excited. They’re perfect for cleaning sticky messes, whether you made them, your kids, or your pets. But the most important distinction is that wet and dry vacuums can vacuum and mop all in one go, and you don’t have to swap out devices, attachments, or anything else. At least, that’s the case with Eureka’s excellent NEW400 wet and dry all-in-one vacuum. It’s even self-propelled to make it easier on you — and it takes less effort to glide around your floors.
Here’s the best part of all, though. For Black Friday, running from November 17 to November 27, you can save big on the Eureka NEW400, which is discounted to $140 instead of its normal $200 price. That’s a total savings of $60, but really, even more, considering you’re not having to buy a separate vacuum and mop. You can grab that deal below right now or keep reading to learn a little more about what the NEW400 has to offer.
Buy Now Why you should buy the Eureka NEW400 wet and dry vacuum during Black Friday Eureka With a normal spill, let’s suppose a cereal and milk spill, you first have to pick up the debris. In this case, that would be the cereal crumbs and solids. Then, you have to wipe up the milk and liquid with a paper towel. Finally, you have to mop the area to make sure it doesn’t leave behind any sticky residue. That’s a lot of work, there are a lot of steps involved, and it can take longer than it has any right to. But with Eureka’s NEW400, you can do all of that in one fell swoop. Just break out the vacuum, clean up, and mop the mess, and you’re done.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Thanks to a dual-tank system with continuous running water, you’re always cleaning as you glide across the floor. The fresh water ensures you’re not just pushing around dirty, nasty water like you would with a regular mop. Because it’s also self-cleaning, automatically flushing the inner tubes and brush roller, you don’t have to worry about taking apart the entire system and scrubbing it down, either. All you have to do is press the self-cleaning button for three seconds to start a cycle. The clean water tank holds up to 600ml of water, while the dirty tank holds 400ml.
The NEW400 is cordless, as well, with a battery that lasts for up to 30 minutes on a single charge. When you’re done, just rest it on top of its standup dock, and it will begin charging.
Altogether, it’s a fantastic way to clean up spills and messes but also to save time cleaning the rest of your home. It will certainly be a huge boon to have the Eureka NEW400 around during the holidays as people are coming and going, maybe even leaving messes by the door and in your halls. You can get it all cleaned up quickly and easily, and thanks to the current Black Friday deal, you can get the NEW400 at a low price. Normally $200, it’s yours right now for just $140, saving you $60. Don’t wait to take advantage of this deal, it’s going to be gone before you know it.
Buy Now Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Smart Home Amazon Computing If you want to buy a Windows laptop but don't really want to spend the hundreds of dollars required to get something good, Chromebooks are the perfect alternative. Because ChromeOS is a much more lightweight operating system, it doesn't eat up as many resources as Windows does. That means that the same hardware under the hood can provide more functionality than it would on a Windows laptop, which helps bring the price down.
To pile on to that, there are some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will bring the price down even further. If you find that you need the full functionality of a laptop, check out our general Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals, or Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday MacBook deals, for PC and MacOS respectively.
Best HP Chromebook Black Friday Deals Computing Lenovo is one of the best laptop brands, so you should never pass up a chance to enjoy savings when buying one of its devices -- whether it be Chromebooks, student laptops, office laptops, or gaming laptops. Fortunately, discounts are plenty with this year's Black Friday deals, so even if you're on a tight budget, you'll surely come across an offer that's perfect for you. There may not be enough time for you to go through all of the retailers' websites though, so to help you make your decision on what to buy, we've rounded up our favorite Black Friday laptop deals below. All of the deals below are currently through Lenovo's site, but you can find other good deals, even on Lenovo, in the Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and Amazon Black Friday deals.
Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals Lenovo laptops can be very affordable or expensive, depending on the performance that they provide. That means no matter your needs and how much you're willing to spend, there's a device that will be perfect for you. We're not sure how much time is remaining for you to be able to pocket these savings though, so you should check our laptop buying guide to figure out what you need from the Lenovo laptops that are on sale for Black Friday.
Computing Black Friday deals have brought with them some awesome laptop deals so you can save big on everything from a budget-priced Chromebook to a high-end gaming laptop. We'd be remiss if we didn't also mention the Amazon Black Friday laptop deals guide, there are a lot of good discounts on there, too. If you've been waiting to upgrade your current rig, this is your chance. There are so many options out there that we've picked out some of our favorites so you can easily find the right laptop for your needs and your budget. This list does not include Black Friday MacBook deals, so make sure you check those out too. Here's a look at all the highlights.
Top 3 Black Friday laptop deals HP 17-inch laptop -- $250, was $500 Currently heavily discounted as part of HP laptop Black Friday deals, the HP 17-inch laptop is ideal for anyone on a slim budget. It looks more expensive than it is thanks to having a 17-inch HD+ screen with 1600 x 900 and 250 nits of brightness. That extra room also means the keyboard is roomier with a numeric pad to the right of it that's ideal for entering a lot of data. The laptop has an AMD Athlon Gold 7220U processor along with 8GB of memory and 128GB of SSD storage. It also has a lift-hinge to ensure you can type at a more natural position.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
