Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch In partnership with Home Deals It’s time for a new kind of portable power: Yoshino B4000 SST Yoshino Portable power stations are seeing something of a renaissance right now in terms of popularity, performance, and capabilities. As brands explore what makes them so practical, the rest of the world prepares for the inevitable. Energy, or electricity, is growing increasingly more expensive while at the same time becoming less reliable. Between strains on the general power grid, natural disasters, and inordinate costs, many people are understandably looking for alternatives, especially those living off the grid. Portable power stations are a fantastic answer to this problem, with some meant to replace traditional generators as full-home backup solutions and others offering portable power — systems that can be used anywhere and that are more sustainable. At the forefront of that change is a new solid-state battery technology, and Yoshino is the first to launch the technology into portable power stations and solar generators.
Introducing the Yoshino B4000 SST solid-state portable power station Power up your outdoor adventures for the holidays Solid-state batteries are impressive for their advanced properties and functionality. For starters, they’re smaller and lighter in weight than your average lithium-ion battery. This allows for a lighter, smaller cell in a more manageable frame, which translates to better portability. They also have a longer lifespan and more power, so they can deliver up to 2.5 times the energy density of standard Li-Ion batteries, meaning higher capacities and performance. Finally, they use a solid electrolyte which makes them much safer overall.
So, what is the Yoshino portable power station using this new tech? It’s called the B4000 SST, and it has a massive 4,000-watt and 2,611-watt-hours capacity that, despite its size, can still charge from empty to 80% in just over an hour. Even if you know nothing about comparable power stations, it’s evident that’s quite the feature. Moreover, it can be transformed totally into a sustainable, eco-friendly power station with Yoshino’s optional solar panels for charging off-grid. Let’s embark on an off-grid adventure to learn more.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Learn More Introducing the Yoshino B4000 SST solid-state portable power station Yoshino Besides its cutting-edge battery technology, the B4000 SST takes capacity and efficiency to entirely new levels. Even in its sleek, compact size, it offers a 2.6 kilowatt-hour capacity making it the optimal choice for off-grid and portable power. Whether you need it for RV trips, camping in the wilderness, or commercial and industry power solutions, it’s an excellent choice.
It will go the distance, too, thanks to the enhanced tech. Advanced Gallium Nitride (GaN) transistors offer greater efficiency than traditional silicon components, with reduced energy loss and an improved lifespan even when put under heavy loads. ETL certification, an Energy Assurance Labs safety testing pass, and an extended warranty offer much-needed reassurances in an ever-flooded market of less-than-stellar options.
Yoshino Plus, with multiple ways to recharge the B4000 SST, including solar, AC charging via regular outlets, and car charging via DC outlets, it’s versatile and ready to power any adventure you take. The Yoshino App puts you in total control of the entire power system, as well. You can monitor capacity, enable or disable outlets, get critical usage stats, and much more.
Power up your outdoor adventures for the holidays Yoshino If you’re looking for portable power options, but want to take advantage of some fantastic Black Friday deals , especially ahead of the holidays and major holiday shopping events, now’s your chance. Normally $3,299, you can get the new Yoshino B4000 SST portable power station for just $2,499, which saves you $800. You could even put that money towards some of Yoshino’s optional solar panels to ensure you can charge this system anywhere you are, with just the power of the sun. Hurry, though. This Holiday-themed promotion is only available from November 10 until December 15, and then it’s back up to its regular price. With the unique and advanced solid-state technology, no other power station on the market compares.
Buy Now Editors' Recommendations BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station Jackery’s Solar Generator 1000 Plus and 300 Plus: next-gen versatile energy EcoFlow Innovates: RIVER 2 Pro Is the Best Portable Power Station Under 1kWh Growatt VITA 550 portable power station keeps all your devices charged on the go BLUETTI at CES 2023: Back in black with whole-home power backup solutions Smart Home Portable Power Stations Deals This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
It's here, and now it's time to save big on portable power stations and everything that goes with them, like solar panels and beyond. Why is this such a big deal? Because portable power stations, big and small, can be quite pricey, but there's no denying how incredibly practical and convenient they are. No brand has had more time in the market than Jackery, with loads of portable power options ready to choose from. Of course, the Black Friday deals mean you can save quite a bit, with Jackery offering over $1,000 off and one of the biggest discounts ever! That's not the only thing to get excited about. Jackery is also hosting its 10th Anniversary event, which comes with a plethora of giveaways. To learn more about what's going on and to see some of the fantastic deals, keep reading.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
As far as portable power solutions go, few brands have been in the market as long as Jackery, especially since Jackery's 10th Anniversary celebration is happening right now. But while that's impressive, what's more exciting is that Jackery's Black Friday deals will soon be live too, from November 24 to November 28. During that time, they're going to offer the biggest discount ever on Jackery solutions -- up to $1,080 off. It's libations all around, and for good reason. With the holiday shopping events and Jackery's 10th Anniversary wedged together, a lot is going on that you'll want to be involved with. For example, Jackery's Crazy Monday Giveaway will feature an unmissable mega giveaway -- and we do mean mega -- with prizes worth up to $250,000 in total value. Yeah, we know, it's a lot to take in, so keep reading to learn some of the finer details about the Black Friday sale and Jackery's Anniversary event.
First, let's talk about the giveaway, which will be live on Jackery's official website and YouTube channel. They'll be picking winners during their livestream starting November 28. We don’t know everything they'll be giving away, but it will be a total of $250,000 in prizes. Jackery has teamed up with Black Series to give away camper vans. Plus, there will be money back opportunities for Jackery orders placed during Black Friday, and many, many more prizes beyond that! Deals This content was produced in partnership with Bluetti.
What's as scary, or scarier in some cases, than a crazed and masked killer chasing you down on a cold autumn night? No power, or losing access to a reliable power supply, especially in today's hyper-digital world. You won't be able to upload family photos. You won't be able to see what everyone else is doing for Halloween. You won't be able to watch spine-chilling movies or warm up with a mug of hot cocoa. That is, unless, you have a backup solution, also known as a portable power station. And wouldn't you know it, Bluetti is offering a slew of bootiful and haunted Halloween deals on power stations, extra batteries, and solar panels -- the latter so you can charge up your devices with renewable energy. From October 20 to November 5, you have an incredible chance to save, and fill up your trick-or-treat bags with more than just candy! Some examples of what's in treat include Bluetti's EB3A portable power station for $209 -- normally $239 -- which is a spooky savings of $30. The AC200P powerful station starts at $1,399 -- normally $1,599 -- which is $200 off during the Halloween event. Then there are combo deals that include everything you need, such as the bundle with an AC200MAX plus two PV350 solar panels for $3,199, which has been slashed and ripped by $398. Of course, that's just the start, there are a lot of sweet treats available if you're into portable power stations, or honestly, if you just want to have a power solution anywhere -- you can use them in your backyard, at a campground, on the road, or even off-grid. Check out the sale below, or keep reading for some more details on the event, and what's on the chopping block.
Creep the Sale Sweet Bluetti deals that are as good as free candy Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
