Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? By Jon Bitner Close When it comes to building a smart home, few steps are as important as choosing your smart home platform. Pick the wrong one, and you could be left using dozens of separate smartphone apps to control all your gadgets.
What is a smart home platform? Hub devices Compatible devices Ease of use Verdict Apple HomeKit and Amazon Alexa are two of the best options available today — but which one is better for you? Here’s a comparison of the two platforms to help you decide.
What is a smart home platform? Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart home platforms offer a centralized place to control all your smart home products. After loading up the software (whether it be on your phone or a hub device), you’ll be able to see a list of everything in your smart home and have easy access to all their controls.
The best smart home devices for 2023 Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? The best smart displays for 2023 Of course, you don’t necessarily need to use a smart home platform, as most smart home products come with their own standalone applications. But if you have tons of gizmos sitting around your house, each with their own app, it can be cumbersome to flip through all of them to carry out basic tasks. With a smart home platform such as Alexa or HomeKit, everything in your home can be accessed in one unified location.
Hub devices Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Hub devices are the center of most smart homes, with both smart speakers and smart displays giving you ways to control the rest of your setup. However, Apple doesn’t have the most robust selection of HomeKit hubs , as you’ll largely be limited to the HomePod, HomePod mini, Apple TV 4K , or a standard iPad Pro.
Note that iPads are no longer supported as a home hub on the new Home architecture, meaning you’ll likely want to use an Apple TV 4K or a HomePod as the brains of your operation.
Amazon Alexa , meanwhile, works with the entire Echo lineup (which includes a variety of smart displays and smart speakers), as well as third-party products like the Sonos One or Bose Home Speaker 500. Amazon also seems to be churning out more smart home hubs for Alexa than Apple is for HomeKit, as evidenced by the newly launched Echo Pop.
 Apple, meanwhile, doesn’t even have a dedicated smart display for HomeKit — although that could be changing in the future.
Winner: Alexa Compatible devices Image used with permission by copyright holder Without a doubt, Amazon Alexa is supported by more products than HomeKit. From video doorbells and smart thermostats to smart speakers and robot vacuums, it’s hard to find a product that doesn’t work with Amazon’s smart home platform. Amazon itself churns out some of the best products for Alexa , including the Amazon Smart Thermostat, Blink Video Doorbell, and more.
Apple falls far behind Amazon in terms of sheer number of compatible products, but its smaller pool is arguably of similar quality. So while you won’t have dozens of smart speakers to choose from, having HomePod and HomePod mini support with HomeKit is a big win. There are also plenty of third-party products that work with HomeKit , including popular items from Nanoleaf, Schlage, and Ecobee. Expect to see this number balloon further as Matter continues to roll out to more products.
For now, however, it’s hard to go wrong with Amazon Alexa , as you’re all but guaranteed to find something that fits your needs. HomeKit is no slouch, but its catalog is a bit smaller and typically a bit more expensive than the competition.
Winner: Alexa Ease of use Apple With intuitive smartphone apps and responsive voice assistants, both HomeKit and Alexa are remarkably easy to use.
Alexa works across both Android and iOS smartphones, while HomeKit is limited to iOS devices, but aside from that quirk, controlling your smart home is as simple as opening an app.
Winner: Tie Verdict Amazon If you’re glued to the iOS ecosystem and don’t mind a smaller pool of products to choose from, there’s nothing inherently wrong with HomeKit. It’s functional, easy to use, and supports more than enough products to build a robust smart home.
Alexa , however, is an easy recommendation for everyone. With a catalog that’s bursting with top-tier products, you’ll never have a problem finding something that fits your needs and budget. Shoppers on a budget will find Alexa to be an incredible option, as you can pick up the Echo Pop to use as a hub for just $40 (and it’s often on sale for much less).
Alexa is also a great voice assistant, capable of tackling any task you throw its way. Siri performs voice tasks just as well as Alexa , but the fact that it’s limited to fewer products makes HomeKit harder to recommend.
All told, Alexa is probably a better choice for your smart home than HomeKit. With a wider variety of products and support for both Android and iOS devices, it’s hard to go wrong with Amazon’s comprehensive platform. HomeKit is a close second, but with fewer options and some big omissions, there’s not much of a reason to pick it over the competition.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? Best Keurig deals: Get perfect coffee at home for just $50 The best smart locks for 2023 Amazon Apple Internet of Things (IoT) Smart Home When it comes to keeping your floors clean, robot vacuums and cordless vacuums are among the best products you can buy. Robot vacuums have become increasingly popular over the past few years -- thanks to their ability to clean your home autonomously -- but cordless vacuums offer plenty of advantages over their robotic counterparts.
Deciding between the two isn't easy, and thankfully, it's hard to make a wrong decision. Both are well-equipped to clean your floors, but there are some big trade-offs you'll have to make for each class. So, which is better? Robot vacuums or cordless vacuums? Smart Home Matter launched around a year ago, and its newly released 1.2 update is bringing tons of improvements to the interoperability standard. The biggest improvement is expanded access, with Matter now supported by nine more different types of devices, including fridges, dishwashers, laundry machines, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and other common smart home gadgets.
While Matter has long been praised for its ability to connect products designed for different ecosystems (allowing you to use HomeKit items with Amazon Alexa, for example), it was held back by its limited rollout. When it first launched, only a handful of categories were supported -- such as smart bulbs, smart plugs, and smart sensors.
Smart Home Smart home gadgets come in all shapes and sizes -- but some are undoubtedly weirder than others. Video doorbells, security cameras, and smart thermostats are common in 2023, but did you know there’s such a thing as a smart toilet? Or how about a smart litter box? Here’s a look at five of the weirdest smart home gadgets of 2023. Some of them are surprisingly useful -- and might make a worthy addition to the right household.
Numi 2.0 Smart Toilet Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
