Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best early microwave Black Friday deals we’ve found By Jennifer Allen Close Digital Trends Black Friday deals are here, meaning you can buy new appliances and replace old ones for cheap. While many of us are using air fryers more than ever, it’s still useful to have one of the best microwaves available for you to use. Some of the best microwave brands include LG and Samsung, along with KitchenAid. We’ve helped you by finding the best early microwave Black Friday deals and we’ve listed them all below. These include all the major brands along with some other options too. Check them out below and enjoy faster cooked food in no time.
Best LG microwave Black Friday deals Best Samsung microwave Black Friday deals Best KitchenAid microwave Black Friday deals Other microwave Black Friday deals we love right now Best LG microwave Black Friday deals LG LG is a big name brand for all manners of electrical devices. Responsible for some of the best TVs around, it’s also found the time to make great microwaves and kitchen appliances like refrigerators and washing machines. If you want a stylish microwave with some cool features, LG is a brand to strongly consider.
LG NeoChef 0.9 Cubic Feet Compact Microwave — LG NeoChef 1.5 Cubic Feet Countertop Microwave — LG 1.8 Cubic Feet Over-the-Range Microwave — LG 2.1 Cubic Feet Over-the-Range Microwave — LG 1.7 Cubic Feet Convection Microwave and Air Fry — Best Samsung microwave Black Friday deals Samsung Samsung makes some great microwaves thanks to the company often adding smart features. That can mean Wi-Fi connectivity if you need it and even voice controls. Other models offer Sensor Cook technology so the microwave can automatically adjust the cooking time to provide you with the best results. So much more than just a basic microwave, Samsung is a good option for those who regularly use their microwave.
Samsung 1.7 Cubic Feet Over-the-Range Microwave — Samsung 1.9 Cubic Feet Over-the-Range Microwave with Sensor Cook — Samsung 2.1 Cubic Feet Over-the-Range Microwave with Sensor Cook — Samsung 1.1 Cubic Feet Smart SLIM Over-the-Range Microwave with Wi-Fi — Samsung 1.7 Cubic Feet Over-the-Range Convection Microwave — Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Best KitchenAid microwave Black Friday deals KitchenAid Convection Microwave Oven KitchenAid / KitchenAid KitchenAid makes many high-end microwaves. That means you’ll pay more for them than your average microwave but in exchange, you can enjoy far more features and more accurate cooking. Sensor Cooking is just one of the features among many KitchenAid microwaves with an air frying mode often included. If you’re looking to invest in a great microwave, this is your chance.
KitchenAid 1.9 Cubic Feet Convection Over-the-Range Microwave — KitchenAid 2.2 Cubic Feet Microwave — KitchenAid 1.9 Cubic Feet Convection Over-the-Range Microwave with Air Fry — KitchenAid 1.1 Cubic Feet Over-the-Range Microwave — KitchenAid 1.9 Cubic Feet Convection Over-the-Range Microwave with Air Fry — ($150 gift card when bought as bundle) Other microwave Black Friday deals we love right now GE If you’re simply looking for a great bargain, there are other microwave Black Friday deals to consider with brands like Insignia and GE often proving much cheaper than the ones above. They may not be as stylish or offer the same number of features but they’re still worth your time if you need something that’s great value.
Insignia 0.7 Cubic Feet Compact Microwave — Insignia 0.9 Cubic Feet Compact Microwave — GE 1.1 Cubic Feet Mid-Size Microwave — Whirlpool 1.7 Cubic Feet Over-the-Range Microwave — Whirlpool 1.9 Cubic Feet Over-the-Range Microwave with Sensor Cooking — Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Waterpik Black Friday deals on water flossers and toothbrushes Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Deals Smart Home It may seem early, but the best Black Friday deals are starting to trickle out ahead of the major holiday shopping event. It doesn't really matter what you're looking for, specifically, there are so many deals and discounts that now's probably the best time to shop. There's almost no sense in waiting until the official Black Friday or Cyber Week, unless you've seen a deal you know you want. Retailers actually raise prices many times before these big sales so the discounts aren't as good as you think they are. Speaking of deals, name brand goods are on sale at incredible prices right now, like KitchenAid stand mixers. They can take your food prep and ingredient mixing to new heights. We've scoured the various retailer sites to find the best of the best KitchenAid stand mixer Black Friday deals, and they're all here in one place. Why not take a look? Best KitchenAid stand mixer Black Friday deals Stand mixers are versatile tools that you can use to mix, blend, and concoct various ingredients for meals and food prep. KitchenAid, obviously, is a well known brand in the kitchen and cooking world and its stand mixers are known for quality and reliability.
Smart Home Vitamix makes some of the best blenders around, and they're a great investment if you plan on putting them to work every day. With Black Friday deals going on right now, this is your chance to upgrade to a great blender for a similarly excellent price. We've picked out the very best Vitamix blender deal below along with some other options you might want to consider buying.
Best Vitamix blender Black Friday deal Vitamix Explorian E310 blender -- $290, was $350 The Vitamix Explorian E310 blender is perfect for making a variety of different textures and liquids. It has 10 variable speeds plus a pulse setting so you can easily use it to prepare soup, make fresh salsa, or even knead dough. It has a powerful 2 HP motor for handling even the toughest of ingredients while its 48 ounce container is perfect for formulating medium-size batches of whatever you're cooking. It's easily cleaned in the dishwasher or you can add soap and warm water and the machine can clean itself in just 30 to 60 seconds.
Deals Vacuums are expensive. Feature-rich vacuums, especially wet-dry vacuums that can handle all spills, are even pricier. Recognizing that there’s a gap in the market for more affordable options, Eureka has delivered one for under $200. Get excited. They're perfect for cleaning sticky messes, whether you made them, your kids, or your pets. But the most important distinction is that wet and dry vacuums can vacuum and mop all in one go, and you don't have to swap out devices, attachments, or anything else. At least, that's the case with Eureka's excellent NEW400 wet and dry all-in-one vacuum. It's even self-propelled to make it easier on you -- and it takes less effort to glide around your floors.
Here's the best part of all, though. For Black Friday, running from November 17 to November 27, you can save big on the Eureka NEW400, which is discounted to $140 instead of its normal $200 price. That's a total savings of $60, but really, even more, considering you're not having to buy a separate vacuum and mop. You can grab that deal below right now or keep reading to learn a little more about what the NEW400 has to offer.
Buy Now Why you should buy the Eureka NEW400 wet and dry vacuum during Black Friday Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
