Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best smart blinds for 2023 By Michael Bizzaco , Tyler Lacoma and Simon Sage Close Smart blinds are the unsung heroes of the smart home. Having access to voice commands and programmable schedules makes it easy to control your blinds and optimize their performance. They also look incredibly stylish and come in a wide variety of styles. But how can you figure out which smart blinds are best for your smart home? According to Tracy Christman, executive vice president of product development and strategy at Budget Blinds, you'll want to consider several different factors when shopping for smart blinds. One important aspect to consider is the motor. More specifically, you’ll want to find a motor that’s built to last.
“Making the decision to invest in motorized blinds and shades is an investment in your home,” said Christman. “Look for a product that comes with a complete warranty. Some brands will provide a limited warranty that does not cover all of the parts." Christman also says that picking the right smart blinds can “absolutely” save you money. When programmed on timers to open and close automatically throughout the day, they offer a simple way to keep out the sun and regulate your home’s temperature.
Other factors to consider include ease of installation (oftentimes a professional install is best), available smartphone apps, and support for platforms such as Amazon Alexa or Google Home.
If you’re unsure where to start your search, here’s a look at some of the best smart blinds of 2023.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Tilt MySmartRollerShade Best for easy set-up Easy installation Handy solar charging option Robust app No support for Google Assistant Separate bridge required Available in several colors and material types (including blackout options), the Tilt MySmartRollerShades are an ideal option for those looking to dive into the world of smart shades without the burden of overly-complicated tech. The shade motors are powered by solar-charged battery packs, which means no worrying about recharging your power source throughout the year.
Once installed with compatible windows 23 inches to 74 inches wide, all of your main controls are handled by the Tilt MySmartRollerShades app. The iOS and Android apps connect via Bluetooth. Set schedules, enable sunrise/sunset functions for raising and lowering your blinds, and make adjustments all from your preferred mobile device. Keep in mind that because the app is powered by Bluetooth and not Wi-Fi, you'll need to operate your motorized blinds while at home. If you want on-the-go controls, there are several options.
If you're using an Amazon Alexa or a Samsung SmartThings smart device, you can also control your Tilt shades with voice commands. Doing so does require the additional purchase of the Tilt Bridge, but once installed it's convenient to automate your shades with simple raise and lower prompts.
Lutron Lutron Serena Shades Best for a custom fit Works with all assistants Feature-rich Fits to any window size Expensive Requires a separate hub Serena motorized shades are one of the most popular brands for smart blinds. Lutron's totally customizable coverings come in either honeycomb or roller styles with over 150 fabric, color, and opacity options. Use the free Lutron app to create custom mood scenes with your blinds and set schedules for opening and closingl. It also supports geofencing, where the blinds will automate based on your daily routines. Serena shades also are compatible with Alexa, Google Assistant, Apple HomeKit, Samsung SmartThings, and Logitech Harmony. The Lutron Smart Bridge is required for all Wi-Fi features.
Buying the Lutron Serena or other Serena coverings is easy. Just go to Serena Shades , hover over Design and Shop , and select Design a Shade.
Plug in your measurements, power preferences, and choice of material, and then have your finished window treatment sent directly to your home.
Graywind Graywind Roller Shades Best for a seamless look Compatible with SmartThings Smooth motor action Great style Needs two people to install Alexa integration can be tricky One of our favorite hardwired options of this roundup, Graywind shades are customizable blackout curtains that can be controlled with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, Samsung SmartThings, and IFTTT programming. The best part? There's no need to purchase an additional bridge.
After you've installed the shades, download the Graywind app and start creating schedules and automation routines for your new smart shades. If you'd prefer to keep things simple, you can use the included remote to control up to nine different pairs of Graywind shades. Better yet, you can purchase additional Graywind remotes and copy your settings from one remote to the other.
Initial programming of the motors for this window covering can be a bit tricky. If you have any issues with setup though, Graywind offers exceptional customer support for any install glitches you may encounter.
Soma Soma Smart Shades 2 Best for a compact design Works with existing shades Solar panel included Highly affordable No physical remote included Hub required for smart home integration Soma's latest Smart Shades 2 motor pack is another stellar retrofitting option for your existing blinds. Just make sure your coverings have a beaded chain. Once installation is finished, download the Soma app to easily automate the shades. The app lets you create "triggers" for the pack to respond to, including the time of day, sunrise/sunset, and general lighting conditions. The pack is solar-powered and comes with a USB charging cable for quick battery re-juicing.
Once you add the Soma Connect to your smart home, intelligent voice commands are available through Alexa, Google Assistant, and Siri. Once enabled, you can ask Alexa to do things like open your Soma Smart Shades halfway or create routines where your blinds will always close at 7 p.m. just as your smart lights to turn on.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Yoolax Blackout Shades Best for smooth and quiet operation Solar power option Little noise when operating Seamless style Requires separate smart hub Remote control battery sold separately What we love about Yoolax is its catalog is entirely custom-fit to match your exact window dimensions. Just plug in your sizes and order online. Installation is painless and the low-noise motor keeps the shades operating smoothly. Like most of our picks, the Yoolax motor runs off of an easy-to-recharge battery pack.
You can control the Yoolax Blackout Motor Shades with the provided remote or Yoolax app. Alexa, Google Assistant, and Siri can join the fun, too. Just make sure to purchase the Yoolax hub to unlock the additional voice command features.
Image used with permission by copyright holder My SmartBlinds Automation Kit Best for retrofitting existing shades Handy gradual tilt mode Solar panels can keep the kit powered Schedule can shift according to season Motor could be more powerful Retrofit requires cutting existing drawstrings.
If you happen to be handy and don’t mind a little DIY, the MySmartBlinds kit might be your best bet. The kit can only be used to retrofit 2- to 2.5-inch corded horizontal blinds, but adding the low-profile motor and battery is such a cinch that it felt silly not to include My SmartBlinds on our list.
Once you install your motors and batteries, you’ll need to download the SmartBlinds app to your phone or tablet. Use the SmartBlinds app to raise and lower your blinds or set daily and weekly schedules that work with your routines, so you never have to worry about remembering to close your blinds again. Users can deviate easily from their schedules by using the manual override option.
You can also automate your blinds using the solar monitor and temperature sensors. These sensors will operate your blinds automatically by monitoring the sun rays as well as your home’s indoor temperature. The battery is also solar-powered, so if you’re looking for ways to save on energy costs , the My SmartBlinds Automation Kit is an ideal option.
Ikea IKEA Fyrtur Smart Blinds Reasonable price Great design Easy operation and installation Missing a few "smart" features IKEA is known for its high-quality, low-priced catalog – and the Fyrtur Roller Blinds are a welcome addition to the family. Offering IKEA’s usual minimalist design, these smart shades are little more than a roll of fabric on a simple frame. You can actuate the blinds with the included remote control, or you can sync them with the IKEA Home smartphone app to gain additional features. There’s also not a cord to be found, making them child-safe and offering a less-cluttered look than traditional blinds. Best of all, the polyester fabric used in the blinds provides full blackout coverage, allowing you to get a good night’s rest or block out the sun in your home theater.
Graber Graber Motorized Shades Quiet operation Cordless design Endless ways to customize your shades Expensive They’re not cheap, but the Graber Motorized Shades give you incredible flexibility to build them however you'd like. Solar shades, cellular shades, pleated shades, natural shades – the list of available styles is impressive.
And, like all smart shades, the Graber Motorized Shades are easy to control with the accompanying smartphone app or through Amazon Alexa or Google Home.
What makes these motorized shades extra appealing is their quiet motor, Z-Wave technology (which alerts you when batteries are low), and a cord-free design that’s great for homes with kids or pets. Consider checking them out if you need a high-end look to pull together your room.
Frequently Asked Questions Smart blinds are versatile window treatments that you can control and manage through a mobile app, computer software, or voice commands via smart speakers from major brands like Amazon, Google, Apple, Samsung, and more.
Smart blinds are powered and operated in several ways. When shopping for these specialized window treatments, you'll find a number of power options: Battery-powered motors are at the top of the list when it comes to aesthetics and easy installation. The battery packs are simple to conceal and quick to replace, although you'll have to worry about servicing the shades once in a while, depending on how much you use the shades throughout the year.
Hardwired smart blinds require an existing electrical outlet to power the shade motors but negate the need to service replaceable batteries. Many brands also offer solar-powered motors that work in conjunction with battery-powered motors.
Regardless of what power source you're using, the motors are typically paired to Wi-Fi and Bluetooth for smart controls through a mobile app or voice assistant. Z-Wave, Zigbee, and proprietary radio controls are less common options.
Yes. Smart blinds can help you save money on the electric bill by allowing more sunlight into your home during peak heating hours, or blocking our sunlight when you would otherwise need to turn on the air conditioning. This means you'll be running your thermostat less. Smart blinds also are a great way to improve home security. Automated schedules paired with smart lighting can create the illusion of someone being home, even if you and yours are on vacation. There's also the pure convenience of operating shades without needing to pull cords or twist wands. Popular voice assistants like Alexa and Google Assistant let you raise and lower shades with simple voice commands, allowing you to walk into a room and adjust your blinds with ease.
You sure can. Products like the My Smart Blinds Automation Kit can be retrofitted with existing blinds, adding smart controls to those designer shades you simply must keep.
If you already have blinds that use an electric motor but want to make the motor a lot smarter, use the LoraTap Curtain Switch, which is designed to be connected to an existing motor without the need to replace it entirely.
Cellular shade models are a popular option for electric blinds, but it's important to match a smart blind upgrade to the particular kind of blinds you have. Contact an interior designer that can provide suggestions for the best window treatments for your specific home, sensibilities, and overall goals. Window treatments can use a variety of cord and pulley systems to operate, and not all smart blind motors will be compatible. Some blinds may not be able to be upgraded to a smart system at all. Do your research and find options that match what you have, or choose a new blind system altogether.
Smart blinds come with a motor that's mounted to the wall beside the blinds, a hub that connects to your Wi-Fi, and a controller or app you can use to automate them. They generally need to be hard-wired into your electrical system as well, although some work on rechargeable batteries while others need to be plugged into a nearby electrical outlet. If wiring is involved, this is usually not a DIY project except for those experienced in home renovations and electrical work. For easier installation, look at something like our battery-powered Ikea picks.
Yes. The terms are used interchangeably, although "smart blinds" is a newer term, and often carries the expectation of app-based controls.
Wear and tear on smart blinds is minimal, and with proper care they can last at least five years. The blinds themselves will last much longer, but you may need to replace batteries or update the mechanical systems every several years.
Solar-powered smart blinds are just as reliable as battery-powered smart blinds. They work off light, not heat, so windows that block heat will still allow the blinds to charge. Energy is stored over time, so your smart blinds will still have power even at night or on cloudy days.
Solar-powered smart blinds work off solar energy, which means there is no need to hardwire them or constantly swap out batteries. Once installed, the blinds work within just a few hours of sun exposure. Once a charge builds up, the blinds can work even when there is no sunlight due to internal batteries.
For many users, the appeal of a solar-powered smart blind is that it requires no electrical work to install and leaves outlets free for other uses. Fewer cords mean less clutter on the walls, providing a more aesthetically pleasing look.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 The best KitchenAid mixer Black Friday deals (and accessories from $17) The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best Black Friday washer and dryer bundle deals happening now Best Products Internet of Things (IoT) Smart Home Ring has made some of the most popular tech for the smart home over the last decade or so, with the Ring Video Doorbell becoming a staple of home security. But Ring makes a lot of tech products for around the house, and with Black Friday around the corner, a lot of it is already starting to be discounted. Some of the best early Black Friday deals are on products made by Ring, and we’ve tracked down some of the best deals on Ring products you can find for Black Friday.
Check out Nest Black Friday deals and Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals for similar discounts.
Best Ring Doorbell Black Friday deals Smart Home The wait is finally over because Black Friday deals are now online, bringing discounts on all kinds of home appliances -- including vacuums. Whether you're planning to purchase an upright vacuum, a robot vacuum, or a cordless vacuum, you won't find any shortage of bargains, though we understand that the sheer number of offers may look overwhelming. To help you decide what to buy, we've rounded up the best Black Friday vacuum deals that you can purchase right now, which should give you the advantage over other shoppers. Hurry up, as stocks are probably selling quickly.
Best Black Friday vacuum deals An upright vacuum is still one of the most popular options if you want a cleaning device to pick up all kinds of dirt, debris, and pet hair. You're going to have to deal with a cord, but most people are probably used to them by now and it's a small price to pay for consistent power. Retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart are offering discounted prices for upright vacuums from different brands, so whether you're on a tight budget or you're willing to splurge on one with all the bells and whistles, you'll surely find a deal that catches your attention.
Smart Home With all the Black Friday deals going on at the moment, this is the perfect time to buy yourself a home improvement. We all hate having to vacuum so often so that's why a robot vacuum is such a tempting proposition. Right now, there are some fantastic Black Friday vacuum deals around so you can save big on the best way to clean your home with minimal effort. Keep reading and you'll see all the great deals we've found, including major brands like Roomba and Shark Black Friday deals, along with the best robot vacuums.
Best Shark robot vacuum Black Friday deals Shark is a respectable name in the robot vacuum world with one of its models featuring among our look at the best robot vacuum and mop combos. Alongside Shark is the Ninja brand which is a great indicator of the quality of all its products. Shark makes many different robot vacuums covering different price ranges and needs, so there's generally something for everyone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
