Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The 11 best smart home products that support Matter By Jon Bitner Close Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Echo Dot with Clock (5th Gen) Compact footprint Vastly improved sound quality Clock shows more useful info New temperature sensor Added Wi-Fi features Only works as Wi-Fi booster if you're already on Amazon eero network Amazon recently brought Matter support to a slew of devices, but the Echo Dot with Clock is arguably one of the most exciting. Available for just $60 (and often on sale), the Dot is a surprisingly great smart speaker. Not only does it sound good, but the simplistic HUD allows you to quickly check the time or get the current weather forecast. Toss in Matter and the availability of various color options, and it’s easy to see why the Echo Dot with Clock is one of the best smart speakers around.
More John Velasco / Digital Trends Nest Hub (2nd Gen) Accurate sleep tracking Tons of data about your sleep $100 starting price Few new features over previous model Just like Amazon, Google pushed a Matter update to many of its devices at the tail end of 2022. The Nest Hub was included in that wave of updates, giving the popular smart display the ability to interact with other Matter devices. Google Assistant is just as powerful as ever, and the vibrant 7-inch display lets you stream your favorite shows, load up your calendar, play music, or get a quick tutorial on how to cook up a new dish.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Echo Show 15 Huge 15.6-inch screen Widget functionality makes it easy to see tasks, smart home, and more at a glance Different orientation options Visual ID swaps between users Lacks customization and personalization options Software crashes without explanation Need something a bit larger than your standard smart display? Check out the Amazon Echo Show 15, which boasts a gorgeous 15-inch display and fully supports Matter. It’s a bit expensive, but you won’t find many other products like the Echo Show 15 (let alone one that also supports Matter).
Image used with permission by copyright holder Eve Door & Window Sensors Easy to use Tons of versatility Sleek design Expensive Now that the Eve Door & Window Sensor supports Matter, keeping your home secure has never been easier. Beyond knowing whether your doors (or windows) are open or shut, you can trigger various events based on their status -- such as turning on lights or shutting off your furnace. You’ll need to join the Early Access program to make use of the features, but that’s a minor inconvenience for a lot of nifty smart home tech.
More John Velasco / Digital Trends Apple HomePod mini Computational audio optimizes the experience Clean-sounding highs and mids Compact size makes it discrete It's the most affordable HomeKit home hub Siri lacks the advanced intelligence of its competitors Short power cord Another entry on this list, another smart speaker to discuss. This class of products has been widely updated to support Matter, as they serve as central hubs for most smart homes. The Apple HomePod mini rounds out the big three (Alexa, Google Assistant, and Siri), giving you the option to use just about any ecosystem as the center of your Matter-connected smart home. Siri might not be quite as versatile as the competition, but no doubt iOS fans will be glad to have the new functionality offered by Matter.
More Zeke Jones / Digital Trends HomePod Great sound quality Incredible bass performance Dazzling Spatial Audio surround Plug and Play wireless Slick design Limited connection options No direct Spotify playback Take everything that makes the HomePod mini so great, mix them together with a larger design and better speakers, and you’ve built the new HomePod. The latest member of Apple’s smart home family offers full support for Matter, making it a great central pillar for anyone piecing together a connected network of devices. Beyond Matter, you’ll benefit from high-fidelity audio powered by a four-inch high-excursion woofer, five tweeters, and Spatial Audio along with Room sensing to optimize performance based on the acoustics of your home. It’s not cheap, clocking in at $299, but few Matter products are as powerful and versatile as the HomePod.
More Google Google Nest Thermostat Affordable cost Smart functions mean minimal interaction Stylish Apple-like design Simple DIY installation Capacitive controls are only on one side If you’re looking for a Matter-enabled smart thermostat, look no further than the popular Google Nest Thermostat. It’s the first product in its class to gain support for Matter, and seeing as it’s a well-reviewed (and reasonably affordable) gadget, it’s an easy recommendation for anyone looking to built the ultimate smart home. With the ability to automatically adjust temperatures to help you save money, an easy installation process, and a robust smartphone app, the Nest Thermostat is a great way to upgrade from a traditional thermostat.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Aqara Smart Lock U100 Minimalist design Built-in fingerprint sensor Support for Apple home keys Expensive The Aqara Smart Lock U100 was one of the first smart locks to offer Matter support. It’s also one of the best. Featuring a built-in fingerprint sensor, a keypad to enter a personalized password, and even support for Apple home keys, there’s no shortage of ways to interact with this smart lock. It’s also one of the better-looking locks available today, thanks to a minimalist design with muted blacks and silvers. Toss in additional support for Alexa and Google Home, and you’ve got a well-rounded smart home product that should fit right in with the rest of your setup.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Echo Pop The price is right Decent sound Mostly all the features Bonus Eero extender No aux input Not only is the Echo Pop affordable at just $40, but it also packs in support for both Amazon Alexa and Matter. This makes it one of the most compelling smart speakers of 2023 for budget-conscious shoppers. Its audio quality can’t quite keep pace with other Matter-enabled smart speakers on this list (like the HomePod and HomePod mini), but it works great as a hub that won’t break the bank. It’s also available in a wide range of colors, giving you an easy way to personalize your home.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Tapo Smart Plug Mini Full support for Matter Smartphone app is robust and intuitive Slim design You can find cheaper smart plugs With a simple design, great price, and full support for Matter, the Tapo Smart Plug Mini is one of the best smart plugs around. This no-frills device comes with a single button on its side, allowing you to turn the outlet on or off at will. More importantly, it works with a companion smartphone app to give you remote control of whatever appliance is plugged into it. You can even set schedules and timers to automatically toggle the smart plug at set intervals. Along with Matter, the Tapo Smart Plug Mini supports Apple Home, Google Home, Amazon Alexa, and Samsung SmartThings.
More Nanoleaf Nanoleaf Matter Smart Holiday String Lights 250 addressable LED lights Powerful Nanoleaf smartphone app Weatherproof for outdoor use Expensive Designed specifically for the holiday season ,but perfectly suitable for year-round use, the Nanoleaf Matter Smart Holiday String Lights are among the best smart lights with Matter support. Each box includes a 20-meter string with 250 addressable LEDs. You can swap between prebuilt themes using the Nanoleaf app, or you can choose from over 16 million colors to create your own patterns. They also support voice commands, can sync with nearby music, and are durable enough for outdoor use. Consider using them to decorate a tree or banister around the holidays before moving them to a basement or entertainment room for a bit of flair throughout the rest of the year.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats This is the single best early Black Friday home security camera deal Best Keurig deals: Get perfect coffee at home for just $50 The best smart locks for 2023 Amazon Best Products Google Google Nest Internet of Things (IoT) Smart Home Equipping your home with a security camera will give you peace of mind, especially if you choose to go with the Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera. Amazon slashed its original price of $130 with a 46% discount, so you'll only have to pay $70 -- at this price, most families will be able to afford to buy multiples for extra layers of protection. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase if you want to take advantage of the $60 in savings though, as we're not sure when the offer will expire or how long stocks will last.
Why you should buy the Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera The Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera is a wireless home security camera that's fast and easy to install -- it connects to your Wi-Fi network without the need for a hub, and it's powered by a rechargeable battery so there's no need to link it to a power source. You also have the option to place it anywhere, outdoors or indoors, because it's a weather-resistant device, and it works seamlessly with smart home systems that are powered by Amazon's Alexa, Google Home, Apple Home, and Samsung SmartThings.
Smart Home Having your home set up to be smart can be very convenient, whether it's regulating the light when you're coming and going from home to talking between family members and sending reminders. There's a ton you can do with a smart home, but if you want to control it all without carrying your phone around, grabbing a smart home device to act as a hub is a good idea. To that end, if you're already in the Google ecosystem, this deal on the Google Nest Hub will let you nab a great hub device for relatively cheap. While it usually goes for $100, you can grab it from Best Buy for just $60, a great $40 discount you can put towards something else.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Hub The Google Nest Hub is a mix between a smart screen and a smart speaker, and while it can do both, it can't do them particularly well, which, surprisingly, isn't a dealbreaker. In terms of the screen, you get a 7-inch display running a 1024 x 600 resolution, which, truthfully, is not great for watching shows or films. That said, if you're using it next to your nightstand for time, weather, and other general controls, that's fine, and it's similarly great if you want to stick it in the kitchen to have something to look at from time to time as you cook. Sadly, there's no webcam for you to have video calls on, but it also means you don't have to worry about privacy, so the Nest Hub can go into any room without issue.
Smart Home The best Alexa smart speakers don't just offer support for the voice assistant -- they also sound good, look good, and bring great value to your home. They often serve as the "brains" of a connected smart home, as you can give commands to the rest of your Alexa-enabled products just by talking to your smart speaker.
But with so many Alexa smart speakers on the market in 2023, it can be a challenge when narrowing down your options. It's hard to go wrong with anything from Amazon, Bose, Sonos, and other reputable brands – but which model is best for you? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
