Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best robot mops of 2023 By Keyan Riddick Close Smart robot mops aren't quite as flashy as other smart home gadgets, but they can certainly help save you time. The goal of smart devices is to handle day-to-day activities for you without you having to think or worry about them. Robot mops, as well as their vacuum brethren, perform that task well.
There are plenty of great robot mops to choose from today, many of which also double as vacuums. Whether you want a frugal option or something with heaps of premium features, there's bound to be a robot mop that fits your needs.
Here's a look at the best robot mops of 2023, including products from iRobot, Roborock, and Ecovacs.
iRobot Braava Jet m6 Best overall Cleans with other Roomba Provide thorough cleaning Square design is great for corners Proprietary cleaning pads Expensive First on the list is our best overall smart mop, the iRobot Braava Jet m6. This appliance is our top-of-the-line option for all of its features, especially working in tandem with some of iRobot's robot vacuums. Unfortunately, it's also the most expensive.
The Braava Jet m6 will map out your kitchen or home after a few runs to make sure it's cleaning in the most efficient way possible. You can also use the app to restrict areas the mop can enter, although it will avoid carpet by default. It also has an easy-to-remove and refill water tank.
The Braava Jet m6 will mop as much as it can before going back to the dock. If the battery dies before it finishes cleaning, it will return and recharge before going back out to finish the job. This mop is one of the only options that serves both smaller and larger areas.
Image used with permission by copyright holder iLife V5s Pro Best for small apartments Remote control included Auto returns to dock to recharge Quiet operation Water tank must be manually attached Simple features Next up is the iLife V5s Pro, which is actually a combo vacuum and mop. It takes the spot on our list as best for a small apartment, thanks to it being the quietest robot cleaner. It's also a little smaller for its size, but not as small as the Braava Jet 240.
The V5s Pro doesn't have a terribly huge number of features, but it does come with a simple remote if the app or your phone is out of reach. It will also run for about two hours before going back to the dock to charge.
To convert the V5s Pro from vacuum to mop, or vice versa, you'll have to take the dustbin off the bottom and change it to a water tank.
Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni Best self-cleaning mop Impressive suction and vacuuming Retractable mopping pads Self-emptying and cleaning Sleek, square design Minimal improvements over T20 Omni If you're looking for a robot mop that doubles as a robot vacuum, the X2 Omni should be near the top of your list. Along with two rotating mopping pads, the X2 Omni packs in a staggering 8,000 Pa of suction – allowing it to easily suck up dirt and debris as it cleans your floors. Its mops will also retract when traveling on carpet to prevent it from getting wet.
Once it's done cleaning, the X2 Omni will return to its dock to empty its dustbin, wash its mops, and then running a drying cycle. That means you won't have to get your hands dirty to keep your floors clean. These drying cycles take a bit of time to perform, but it's better than having to deal with them on your own.
Toss in great navigation skills, a simple-to-use smartphone app, and a sleek design, and it's easy to see why the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni is so popular. Many homeowners also love its square footprint, as it gives the robot better access to corners and crevices than the typical circular design. All these features come with a hefty price tag, but it's worth adding to your home if you want a fully automated cleaning experience.
Roborock Roborock S8 Pro Ultra Best for carpet and hard floors Impressive vacuuming skills Mops and vacuums in a single run Automatically cleans and empties itself Easy-to-use smartphone app Mop only lifts up a few millimeters The Roborock S8 Pro Ultra offers many of the same features as the Deebot X2 Omni. This includes a self-washing and -drying mopping system, along with a self-emptying dustbin. However, it uses a single vibrating mopping pad to clean floors instead of two rotating mopping pads. Along with vibrations, the robot applies constant pressure while mopping to help clear up tough stains.
If you're looking to keep your floors as clean as possible, you can mix in Roborock's Floor Cleaning Solution. The S8 Pro Ultra also benefits from 6,000 Pa of suction for impressive vacuuming performance, though it’s the Duo Roller brushing system that really allows it to provide a superior clean.
Using your smartphone, you can program in different mopping schedules, set restricted zones, or enable Off-Peak Charging to help save on your energy bills. This makes it a great all-around robot that's perfect for homes with both carpet and hard floors.
Frequently Asked Questions Yes, Roombas work in small spaces just as well as in larger spaces. However, if your flooring is covered in items and furniture, spending the extra money on an intelligent mop may not make sense.
There's no minimum space that a smart cleaner needs to work in general. Some will require a few feet from the base to any walls, but as far as areas to clean, there's no bottom limit. All cleaners have a specific battery life, so not all will be as effective in the most extensive areas.
From this list, the iRobot Braava Jet m6 would be our choice for first-time buyers in a small space. There are other options if you have more room to clean, a higher budget, or want more features.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 The best KitchenAid mixer Black Friday deals (and accessories from $17) The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best Black Friday washer and dryer bundle deals happening now Best Products Smart Home Ring has made some of the most popular tech for the smart home over the last decade or so, with the Ring Video Doorbell becoming a staple of home security. But Ring makes a lot of tech products for around the house, and with Black Friday around the corner, a lot of it is already starting to be discounted. Some of the best early Black Friday deals are on products made by Ring, and we’ve tracked down some of the best deals on Ring products you can find for Black Friday.
Check out Nest Black Friday deals and Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals for similar discounts.
Best Ring Doorbell Black Friday deals Smart Home The wait is finally over because Black Friday deals are now online, bringing discounts on all kinds of home appliances -- including vacuums. Whether you're planning to purchase an upright vacuum, a robot vacuum, or a cordless vacuum, you won't find any shortage of bargains, though we understand that the sheer number of offers may look overwhelming. To help you decide what to buy, we've rounded up the best Black Friday vacuum deals that you can purchase right now, which should give you the advantage over other shoppers. Hurry up, as stocks are probably selling quickly.
Best Black Friday vacuum deals An upright vacuum is still one of the most popular options if you want a cleaning device to pick up all kinds of dirt, debris, and pet hair. You're going to have to deal with a cord, but most people are probably used to them by now and it's a small price to pay for consistent power. Retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart are offering discounted prices for upright vacuums from different brands, so whether you're on a tight budget or you're willing to splurge on one with all the bells and whistles, you'll surely find a deal that catches your attention.
Smart Home With all the Black Friday deals going on at the moment, this is the perfect time to buy yourself a home improvement. We all hate having to vacuum so often so that's why a robot vacuum is such a tempting proposition. Right now, there are some fantastic Black Friday vacuum deals around so you can save big on the best way to clean your home with minimal effort. Keep reading and you'll see all the great deals we've found, including major brands like Roomba and Shark Black Friday deals, along with the best robot vacuums.
Best Shark robot vacuum Black Friday deals Shark is a respectable name in the robot vacuum world with one of its models featuring among our look at the best robot vacuum and mop combos. Alongside Shark is the Ninja brand which is a great indicator of the quality of all its products. Shark makes many different robot vacuums covering different price ranges and needs, so there's generally something for everyone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
