Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch In partnership with Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Dreo ChefMaker has innovative cooking technology that will blow your mind Dreo When it comes to cooking appliances like air fryers, toaster ovens, and countertop cookers, there is certainly no shortage of options on the market. Choice is good, but too much saturation can make finding the right one difficult. It helps to compare them side-by-side, and that’s what we’re going to do with the Dreo ChefMaker. It features innovative cooking technology that will blow your mind. As you’ll soon learn, it will revolutionize your culinary experiences.
What is the ChefMaker Combi Fryer by Dreo? Dreo ChefMaker vs. Ninja Air Fryer XL 5.5-quart Dreo ChefMaker vs. Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer BOV860BSS Sizzling Black Friday deals on Dreo’s ChefMaker The Dreo ChefMaker is an intelligent cooking system that makes master-class cooking simple and convenient — making family dinners will no longer be a chore. Imagine cooking gourmet, restaurant-quality meals at home but with the ease of popping them into a capable air fryer. No preheating, no oils, no extra prep. For Black Friday, head to the official Dreo website and use the code DTVIPBF100 at checkout to score $100 off. Instead of its normal $359, you’ll pay $259 while the deal is active.
What is the ChefMaker Combi Fryer by Dreo? Dreo You know what an air fryer is, right? What about a convection oven or a toaster oven? Well, Dreo’s ChefMaker essentially rolls all of those cookers into one countertop-friendly unit. You can use it to cook complex meals like roasted meats, shellfish, or gourmet preps, or you could also throw in some popcorn chicken or french fries for a delicious snack.
It caters to all skill levels thanks to three flexible cooking modes, starting with Chef Mode for true gourmet meals, Classic Mode for quick meals and snacks, and precision cooking in Probe Mode — reserved for the true experts of culinary arts. There are over 44 presets based on ingredients you put into the cooker, too. When your food is inside, you can use the Dreo App to guide the entire experience. You’ll access step-by-step cooking advice and recipe videos, cooking process updates, get notifications about your current cooking session, and much more.
Don’t worry if smart cooking through an app is not your thing — and we recognize it’s not for everyone — the Dreo ChefMaker works just fine without a connected phone. Throw your meats, veggies, or food inside, adjust the cooking temperatures, and off you go. It delivers reliable, precise cooking results at the push of a button.
Using CombiCook technology, and advanced and patented capabilities, the system intelligently analyzes ingredients and provides users with guidance to prep pro and gourmet chef-quality meals. It helps raise the temps, achieve the right doneness, and also handles pre-searing and browning, if necessary.
The 4.3-inch user-friendly interface tells you everything you need to know right on the system, plus it has a see-through front panel so you can check on your cooks visually every time. When you’re all done, cleanup is a cinch thanks to dishwasher-safe components like the basket. Everything else can be easily wiped down after it cools, of course.
While these features are impressive, the real test is how ChefMaker stacks up against the competition. Let’s take a closer look.
Dreo ChefMaker vs. Ninja Air Fryer XL 5.5-quart Dreo Dreo’s ChefMaker offers multi-stage cooking that changes based on food maturation. No other air fryers or cookers offer such a thing, including Ninja’s Air Fryer XL.
Suppose you’re cooking a juicy steak. With Ninja XL, you’ll have to preheat the air fryer beforehand to get it ready — ChefMaker does not require a pre-heat even for proper cooks. You’ll also have to cook for a certain amount of time, for instance, 12 minutes, while stopping the cook in the middle to flip the cutlet of meat.
Comparatively, ChefMaker’s four-stage process eliminates some of that extra work, plus a unique water spray for temp control helps adjust moisture, heat, and cooking time to create the perfect meal.
Dreo ChefMaker vs. Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer BOV860BSS A head-to-head between the Dreo ChefMaker and the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer reveals that, for more robust cooking personalization, ChefMaker comes out on top. You can control doneness and cooking texture and cook based on your own preferences to get the meal precisely the way you want.
Moreover, Dreo continuously optimizes ChefMaker’s control algorithm through software updates based on user feedback and beyond. You’ll never get such a thing with other cookers like Breville’s. Optimized programming, especially through the Dreo mobile app, allows you to fine-tune every cook, every meal, and every experience, but without added hassle — it’s so easy to do.
Sizzling Black Friday deals on Dreo’s ChefMaker Dreo All said and done, the Dreo ChefMaker is miles above the competition. It also earned some impressive titles, like winning the CES 2023 Innovation Award 2023 iF Design Award and raising over $1.7 million across 7,358 backers on Kickstarter.
Here’s the best part. For Black Friday, you can use the exclusive code DTVIPBF100 at checkout via the Dreo official website to receive $100 off. Normally $359, that drops the price down to a sizzling $259. That deal is good from November 15 to December 3, so if you’re interested, don’t waste any time. You won’t find a comparable air fryer even with so many Black Friday and Cyber Monday deals on the horizon.
Editors' Recommendations Early Walmart Black Friday deal gets you this Keurig for $35 This popular Ninja air fryer just had its price slashed from $170 to $100 Best Keurig deals: Get perfect coffee at home for just $50 Usually $450, this KitchenAid stand mixer can be yours for $250 today One of the best Ninja air fryers is almost 50% off right now Deals Smart Home There are a lot of different hair dryers out there, but you're probably familiar with Dyson's expensive hair dryer, the Supersonic, which often goes for $500 or so, at least if you include all the accessories. Even though the Dyson might use some really interesting technology that puts it out of reach for many folks. Luckily, there is an alternative, the Shark HyperAir hair dryer, which doesn't use the same technology but has a look, feel, and overall outcome similar to the Dyson Supersonic. Even better, it's much cheaper, especially with this deal from Amazon knocking it down to $160 from its usual $230 price tag. That's a significant $70 discount on an excellent hair dryer, so even though it's not the Dyson Supersonic, it's almost as good for nearly a quarter of the price.
Why you should buy the Shark HyperAIR Hair Dryer The Shark HyperAIR doesn't use a bladeless design but instead combines hot and ionized air to help speed up the drying process and avoid hair damage, as the Dyson does. In fact, it even has an internal processor that adjusts the air temperature up to 1,000 times per second, which is impressive and creates a consistent heat temperature throughout use. It also has a couple of sensors that can detect your hairstyle and automatically adjust heat and air strength to get the best of both worlds. That said, you can still adjust it yourself if you like, with three different heat levels and three different airflow levels, giving you a lot of granular control over how you style your hair.
Smart Home An air fryer is a great way to bring a healthier, cleaner way to eat to your kitchen, and the current air fryer deals are a good way to save some money along the way. But one of the best air fryer deals you can land today is taking place at Best Buy where you can get the Bella Pro Series 4.2-quart air fryer for just $18. This air fryer would regularly cost $60, making this deal worth an impressive $42 in savings. You’ll need to act quickly to claim this deal, as it ends tonight.
Why you should buy the Bella Pro Series 4.2-quart air fryer All of the best air fryers bring a cleaner, healthier set of options to your daily food intake, and they’re a convenient piece of tech to incorporate into your smart home as well. Bella Pro Series 4.2-quart air fryer is no different. By circulating hot air, this air fryer creates a crispy outer layer on the food you’re cooking, with no need for oil. Its 4.2-quart capacity is large enough to cook up to 3.3 pounds of food, which generally serves between four and six people. This is a great air fryer for preparing appetizers, for cooking for small gatherings, or if you find yourself often cooking for just one or two people.
Smart Home We’ve got good news if you’re in the market for an affordable alternative to the best Keurig coffee makers. The Amazon Basics compact coffee maker is available at a discount to Amazon Prime members today. Amazon has dropped its price from $39 to just $22, which makes for a savings of $17. This is a good option if you’ve been shopping the best Keurig deals and aren’t finding anything that suits your budget. Free shipping is also included with a purchase.
Why you should buy the Amazon Basics coffee maker For many people, the day starts off best with a good cup of coffee. And you can’t get to a good cup of coffee with a good coffee maker. This Amazon Basics coffee maker isn’t just an affordable alternative to all of the name brands out there, but it can make a cup of coffee comparable to what you’ll find with many of the best coffee makers. This is a single-serve coffee maker, which makes it good for small kitchens and scenarios without bulk coffee making needs. It also has dual brewing modes, as it’s capable of switching between K-Cu capsule brewing and fresh coffee grounds for traditional brewing.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
