Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This self-emptying robot vacuum is discounted from $499 to $198 By Albert Bassili Close Eufy Cleaning up dust and debris off the floor on a regular basis can be tiring, especially if you have to come home and do all that work on your own. Luckily, robot vacuums can come to the rescue, and while they’re not the perfect cleaning devices we might have seen in cartoons from the 90s, they’re a great alternative. You also don’t have to spend a ton on a good one as prices have come down and deals have made them more affordable, like this mid-range eufy Clean L50, which usually goes for $301. Walmart is running a significant discount on the eufy Clean L50 that brings it down to just $198, which is a substantial $103 discount.
Why you should buy the eufy Clean L50 For starters, one of the great selling points of the eufy Clean L50 is its self-emptying and reasonably large capacity that should let you go 60 days or so between needing to empty it, saving you a lot of hassle in the process. It can also handle both hardwood and carpeted floors just fine, so if you have a mix of floor types, you won’t run into any snags or issues. Similarly, the Clean L50 has 4,000 Pa of suction power, which is good for a robot vacuum and should handle most debris and dit without issue. Interestingly, it also has a pet mode that empties itself out more regularly when your pets are in shedding season, so if you have a breed of dog that sheds a lot, this will be perfect for you.
Besides that, the eufy Clean L50 is also quite clever. For example, LiDAR technology lets it scan its surroundings and avoid objects, doorways, and furniture so that it’s not constantly bumping into everything like some more budget-oriented robot vacuums might. This LiDAR tech also lets it create a map of your house, which can then be used to set it up to clean specific rooms on specific schedules or stay away from specific rooms. But, even if you leave it to its own devices, it will use the map to create more efficient cleaning routines, which is pretty smart.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Overall, the eufy Clean L50 is a great mid-range robot vacuum worth picking, especially with the Walmart discount that brings it down to $198. That said, if you’d like a few more options, you can take a look at these other robot vacuum deals or the overall Black Friday deals that are also going on right now.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The best KitchenAid mixer Black Friday deals (and accessories from $17) Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more The best early office chair Black Friday deals available now Deals Smart Home This time of year is full of Black Friday deals that can save you money on massive investments like large appliances. If your eyes are firmly on a new refrigerator, we're here to help. We've picked out all the best Black Friday refrigerator deals going on right now. These include the best refrigerator brands who are responsible for the best refrigerators, such as LG, Samsung, and KitchenAid. Take a look below at all you need to know about how to save big on the current refrigerator Black Friday deals going on.
Best LG refrigerator Black Friday deals LG is a well regarded brand for many kitchen appliances from washing machines, dryers, to microwaves and -- of course -- refrigerators. Many of its refrigerators offer smart features as well as traditional favorites like ice makers and the option of different stylings. A worthy investment for any home, LG refrigerators are generally considered superior to many other options.
Smart Home Black Friday deals are here, meaning you can buy new appliances and replace old ones for cheap. While many of us are using air fryers more than ever, it's still useful to have one of the best microwaves available for you to use. Some of the best microwave brands include LG and Samsung, along with KitchenAid. We've helped you by finding the best early microwave Black Friday deals and we've listed them all below. These include all the major brands along with some other options too. Check them out below and enjoy faster cooked food in no time.
Best LG microwave Black Friday deals LG is a big name brand for all manners of electrical devices. Responsible for some of the best TVs around, it's also found the time to make great microwaves and kitchen appliances like refrigerators and washing machines. If you want a stylish microwave with some cool features, LG is a brand to strongly consider.
Smart Home While many devices use built-in or sealed batteries, there are still plenty of devices like TV remotes and children's toys that require you to add your own AA or AAA batteries. Thankfully, Black Friday deals also include these with plenty of excellent deals around on the best rechargeable batteries as well as conventional AA and AAA batteries. If you're looking to stock up, check out all the deals we've found below to help you save big.
Best AA battery Black Friday deals AA batteries are used for many different purposes. For instance, they can be used for a flashlight, a calculator, a digital thermometer, along with smoke detectors or a traditional wall clock. They can also be used for remotes along with toys, so they're a very versatile type of battery. Old school gamers will likely fondly remember them as 'Gameboy' batteries referring to swapping out batteries for the Nintendo Gameboy. While many devices may use batteries that can be charged via a USB cable or similar, there are still enough using AA batteries that it's handy to have some spare at home.
Powermax 24-Count AA Batteries -- Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
