Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to create spooky Halloween effects with smart home lighting and sound By Terry Walsh and Jon Bitner Close Smart home technology has expanded dramatically over the past few years, and there’s no shortage of cool tech available to help you with your holiday decorations. Halloween is a particularly great one for smart home gadgets to help with, as you’ll find a variety of products available that create unique lighting and sounds — as well as a few ways to tweak them to create a spooky atmosphere.
Light it up Sync ’em up for spooky ambiance Add spooky sound effects Let the doorbell bring the fear With so many products up for grabs, it can be difficult to figure out where to start. If you need some help sifting through all the options, here’s a look at which smart home devices are best for Halloween — and how they can make your home the talk of the neighborhood.
Light it up Image used with permission by copyright holder One system to check out is the Sylvania Smart+ range (branded as Osram Lightify in some countries), which comprises indoor and outdoor lighting options including standard A19 bulbs, LED flood and spotlights, and flexible lighting strips, as well as outdoor garden lights. There are white and color options available, and the choice of hues stretch into the thousands — perfect for holiday lighting.
The best smart blinds for 2023 Amazon Astro: everything you need to know about this home robot GE Lighting launches Smart Hexagon Panels with support for Alexa and Google Home Alongside its own apps (for Android and iOS devices), you can also control Sylvania Smart+ bulbs via partner systems such as SmartThings , Belkin WeMo, and the Wink Hub. Voice control options include Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant , while some indoor bulbs benefit from using Apple HomeKit /Siri support. So, if you’ve already invested in a smart home system, you may find you can simply add Smart+/Lightify bulbs to your setup without the need for additional controllers.
The $75 Sylvania Smart LED ZigBee RGBW Outdoor Accent Kit includes a 14-foot run of nine external RGB lights and an outdoor, wet-rated power supply. Keep in mind these lights require a ZigBee hub to get working properly.
The lights are mounted on short, plastic spikes which can be easily fixed into a lawn or flower bed. The cables are flexible too, making it easy to angle the LEDs toward the house, trees, or ornaments. If you’re fixing the lights to a deck, steps, or another flat surface, you can use a screwdriver to unclip the LEDs from the spike and surface mount.
A great alternative to these Sylvania lights is the Govee Outdoor Spot Lights, which regularly costs $70 for a two-pack. As the name suggests, these essentially serve as spotlights to illuminate large portions of your home (or yard) in a variety of colors. And since they don’t require a hub, they’re a simple solution to help you create a spooky atmosphere.
For eerie garden lighting, installing Lily Outdoor spotlights to illuminate walls or create spooky uplighting for trees is a simple job, while Calla Outdoor Pathway Lights can help trick-or-treaters find their way to the front door. A 16-foot flexible Lightstrip can bend around decks, curved flower beds, and paths for additional accents. These new outdoor additions to the range are both water and weatherproof, with operating temperatures down to minus 4 degrees Fahrenheit, and they conveniently plug into an outdoor power outlet and support interconnection, so they can be hooked together with ease.
For the porch, greet trick-or-treaters with the portable Philips Hue Go, a rechargeable battery-powered RGB lamp supporting 16 million colors or tunable white light. The three-hour battery life is reasonably short but will get you through the peak candy hours of the evening.
Sync ’em up for spooky ambiance Now it’s time to sync the lights with your smart home controller. Sylvania’s Lightify app isn’t the slickest smart home software but supports basic power controls, dimming, and an RGB color picker. Start the connecting process by opening the Sylvania Lightify app. Go to Devices and click the Add button to launch a device search. The app should detect the lights quickly (if not, power them off and on again to reset connectivity). Now you’re ready to pair the lights with your app.
As these are RGB LEDs, you can now adjust the lighting palette to find the spookiest hue. Sadly, you can only select a single color for all of the LEDs in the run at any given time, but the lighting is bright and the color rendition is reasonably good, too.
Inside the house, you can synchronize your outdoor lighting with additional Sylvania smart bulbs, but there are other options, too. Philips Hue is a popular smart lighting range with a wide assortment of bulbs, lamps, and lighting fixtures, plus a dedicated developer community. A leader in indoor smart LED lighting solutions for over six years, the company has recently extended its range with a slew of outdoor lights.
While Hue works with a variety of smart home kits and controllers from other manufacturers (including Amazon Alexa , Apple HomeKit, and Google Assistant ), you will need a Starter Kit with the Philips Hue Bridge that connects to your router. The Philips Hue White Starter Kit offers the cheapest entry point, bundling the bridge with two tunable white bulbs — but the resulting effects won’t be particularly spine-chilling.
Alternatively, a White and Color Ambiance Starter Kit packs the Zigbee-powered Hue bridge and four E26 RGB bulbs. It’s certainly not the cheapest smart lighting system available but includes everything you need to create fantastic effects around the home.
Add spooky sound effects Image used with permission by copyright holder To raise the hair just a little higher, try combining your lights with audio effects using Hue Labs’ Halloween Living Scenes or the third-party Hue Halloween (iOS/ Android ) and Hue Haunted House ( iOS / Android ) apps. Pair your smartphone or tablet with a hidden Bluetooth speaker, then fire up the app.
It triggers an assortment of dramatic lighting scenes on your Hue bulbs with accompanying, gruesome sound effects. Creaking doors, sinister footsteps, thunder and lighting, ghoulish groans, cackling witches, and more. You can instruct the apps to automatically play a continuous “scarescape” of themes and effects or put your mixing skills to the test with freestyle freak-outs.
It’s great fun for the kids (but definitely too scary for little ones), and when paired with a Philips Hue Motion Sensor , the combo offers real potential for spooking out the neighbors. Check out the video below, which combines a Philips Hue Go lamp and a Bose Soundlink Mini Bluetooth speaker — both small enough to hide in a bush near the front porch or behind the front door.
Let the doorbell bring the fear Your lights can make your front yard feel like Silent Hill , but you can up the ante by using a smart doorbell to play a truly spooky sound the moment an unsuspecting trick-or-treater rings the doorbell. As an added bonus, you can replace your doorbell with a different faceplate that better fits the theme of the season.
When someone presses your Ring doorbell, you can have Alexa answer them.
 This works fine if you aren’t there, but a better way is to answer the doorbell yourself. You can respond to doorbell rings with a creepy cackle, or you can let Ring do the work for you with one of their built-in responses.
Ring isn’t the only company branching out for the most macabre time of year. Google Nest doorbells have also added several new sound effects, including that of a ghost, a witch, a monster, and more. These Halloween-inspired sounds can play whenever someone rings the doorbell.
When the excitement has died down and the front doorbell has finally stopped ringing, settle down in front of your favorite scary movie , with chills amplified by the Philips Hue Play Light Bar. Designed to sit behind a TV or computer monitor, Hue Play cleverly syncs colored lighting with the action shown on screen, boosting in-room ambiance for movies, music, and video games.
Once you’ve made that initial investment in smart home tech, you’re set for any holiday or special occasion. Experiment with different lighting schemes or preset themes from third-party apps to create a welcoming, festive, or spooky atmosphere around the home.
Editors' Recommendations The best Amazon Alexa smart speakers Best Philips Hue deals: Lightstrips and dimmable bulbs How much does it cost to install security cameras? Best smart outdoor floodlights The best smart home tech for your dorm Audio / Video Internet of Things (IoT) Smart Lights Smart Home Looking to make your backyard a bit more festive before your next summer party? Consider adding a few smart lights to your patio, which give you access to a kaleidoscope of gorgeous colors, can be remotely controlled, and clock in at less than $100. That makes them a great way to upgrade the ambience of your party without breaking your budget.
Once you’re done perusing this guide, be sure to check out our smart light bulb guide to find options for the rest of your home.
Smart Home Installing a smart sprinkler system is a great way to keep your yard green without much effort. They tend to carry hefty upfront fees, but once they're installed, it's hard to beat the convenience they offer. Aside from convenience, many smart sprinkler systems also claim to help you save water -- and if you're using less water, you're probably saving on your monthly water bills.
But can a smart sprinkler really help you use less water? And do they save you enough money to be worth the investment? Let's take a closer look to find out.
What is a smart sprinkler system? Smart Home If you’re just beginning your smart home journey, it can be difficult to figure out where to start. From smart thermostats and smart speakers to robot vacuums and light bulbs, the number of gadgets on the market is truly staggering -- and can quickly become overwhelming to newcomers.
Thankfully, piecing together a smart home is pretty simple. While you can easily sink hours into automating every aspect of your household, all that's really required for a “smart home” is a few products and their accompanying apps on your phone. If you need some guidance getting started, here are some tips to help set up your smart home.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
