Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats By Aaron Mamiit Close Google’s Nest is one of the most popular smart home brands in the market today, as it offers everything from security cameras to smart thermostats. If you want to upgrade your smart home setup, or if you want to finally start building it, you should take advantage of this year’s Black Friday deals so that you’ll be able to buy more devices with your budget. There are a lot of options to choose from, so to help with your decisions for your purchases, we’ve rounded up our favorite bargains below from the available Google Nest deals for Black Friday.
Google Nest Hub Black Friday deals Google Nest Cam Black Friday deals Google Nest Doorbell Black Friday deals Google Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals Check out similar Amazon Echo Black Friday deals if you prefer talking to Alexa over Google.
Google Nest Hub Black Friday deals Google The Google Nest Hub with a 7-inch screen and the Google Nest Hub Max with a 10-inch screen are smart displays that are powered by Google Assistant.
 In addition to accessing the digital assistant, these devices will allow you to stay connected with other family members if you have multiples of them around the house — broadcast messages, speak with whoever’s in a specific room, and make audio calls. You can also use them to catch up on your favorite streaming shows, as well as access all of your other smart home devices.
Google Nest Hub (2nd Gen) — Google Nest Hub (1st Gen, Refurbished) — Google Nest Hub Max — Google Nest Hub (2nd Gen, 2-Pack) — Google Best Hub Max (2-Pack) — Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Google Nest Cam Black Friday deals Google There are several models of the Google Nest Cam, with some designed to stay hidden indoors, some meant to monitor outdoor areas, and some even equipped with floodlights and sirens to deter potential intruders. However, all of these security cameras are very easy to install, and they can be accessed through the Google Home app to look through their cameras, speak with visitors, and customize motion zones. You’ll also be able to tap premium features such as up to 60 days of video history by signing up for a Nest Aware subscription. You can watch the footage through a tablet, your Nest Hub, or your new phone (from Google Pixel Black Friday deals ).
Google Nest Cam Indoor (2nd Gen, Wired) — Google Nest Cam (Battery) — Google Nest Cam with Floodlight — Google Nest Cam (Battery, 2-Pack) — Google Nest Cam (Battery, 3-Pack) — Google Nest Doorbell Black Friday deals Nest Video doorbells like the various models of the Google Nest Doorbell are another form of security camera, but instead of being placed anywhere, they’re meant to be installed outside your door. They share several features with surveillance cameras like video capture, two-way audio, customizable motion zones, and saved footage, but since they’re doorbells, they can send you alerts when someone walks up to your front door. They’re much more conspicuous compared to security cameras, but they’ll help greatly in the fight against porch pirates. Check out Ring Black Friday deals for similar discounts.
Google Nest Doorbell (2nd Gen, Wired, Refurbished) — Google Nest (1st Gen, Wired) — Google Nest Doorbell (2nd Gen, Battery, Refurbished) — Google Nest Doorbell (2nd Gen, Battery) — Google Nest Doorbell (2nd Gen, Wired) — Google Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals Google The Google Nest Thermostat and the Google Nest Learning Thermostat, the best smart thermostat for Google Home in our roundup of the best smart thermostats , will let you control your home’s temperature from anywhere through the Google Home app. The Google Nest Learning Thermostat can even use sensors to learn your habits and routines so it can automatically make adjustments for you. They’re both very easy to install, and considering your electricity savings with either of these devices, they’re both pretty affordable Here are the best Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals.
Google Nest Temperature Sensor — Google Nest Thermostat (Refurbished) — Google Nest Thermostat — Google Nest Learning Thermostat (Refurbished) — Google Nest Learning Thermostat — Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Waterpik Black Friday deals on water flossers and toothbrushes Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now The best KitchenAid mixer Black Friday deals (and accessories from $17) Deals Amazon Google Nest Smart Home Vitamix makes some of the best blenders around, and they're a great investment if you plan on putting them to work every day. With Black Friday deals going on right now, this is your chance to upgrade to a great blender for a similarly excellent price. We've picked out the very best Vitamix blender deal below along with some other options you might want to consider buying.
Best Vitamix blender Black Friday deal Vitamix Explorian E310 blender -- $290, was $350 The Vitamix Explorian E310 blender is perfect for making a variety of different textures and liquids. It has 10 variable speeds plus a pulse setting so you can easily use it to prepare soup, make fresh salsa, or even knead dough. It has a powerful 2 HP motor for handling even the toughest of ingredients while its 48 ounce container is perfect for formulating medium-size batches of whatever you're cooking. It's easily cleaned in the dishwasher or you can add soap and warm water and the machine can clean itself in just 30 to 60 seconds.
Deals Vacuums are expensive. Feature-rich vacuums, especially wet-dry vacuums that can handle all spills, are even pricier. Recognizing that there’s a gap in the market for more affordable options, Eureka has delivered one for under $200. Get excited. They're perfect for cleaning sticky messes, whether you made them, your kids, or your pets. But the most important distinction is that wet and dry vacuums can vacuum and mop all in one go, and you don't have to swap out devices, attachments, or anything else. At least, that's the case with Eureka's excellent NEW400 wet and dry all-in-one vacuum. It's even self-propelled to make it easier on you -- and it takes less effort to glide around your floors.
Here's the best part of all, though. For Black Friday, running from November 17 to November 27, you can save big on the Eureka NEW400, which is discounted to $140 instead of its normal $200 price. That's a total savings of $60, but really, even more, considering you're not having to buy a separate vacuum and mop. You can grab that deal below right now or keep reading to learn a little more about what the NEW400 has to offer.
Buy Now Why you should buy the Eureka NEW400 wet and dry vacuum during Black Friday Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
