Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? By Jon Bitner Close The Tapo C120 and Ring Stick Up Cam Pro are both designed for use indoors and outdoors. Offering weatherproofing, impressive video resolution, and simple installation, the two products are great options for anyone seeking a versatile security camera.
 However, the two carry radically different price tags — with the Ring security cam inching close to $200 and the Tapo C120 priced at less than $50.
Pricing and monthly fees Design and installation Resolution and night vision Features and spec list Which is the better security camera? But will the affordable C120 work for your home? Or should you spring for the premium Ring Stick Up Cam Pro? Here’s a closer look at these two security cameras to help you decide.
Pricing and monthly fees TP-Link The Tapo C120 costs just $40 and is offered with a wired power supply. The Ring Stick Up Cam Pro costs $180 and is offered in both battery-powered and wired formats. You can sign up for a Tapo Care plan for $3.49 per month to get rich notifications and the ability to use Smart Sort to easily filter out your captured videos. Ring offers three subscription plans, with the Basic plan costing $4 per month and offering video history for up to 180 days, person alerts, and rich notifications. Two more plans are available, maxing out at $20 per month for the Ring Pro plan.
Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Ring Indoor Cam vs. Arlo Essential Indoor Camera: which is best? If you’re not interested in a monthly subscription, you’ll likely get more mileage out of the Tapo C120. Without a Tapo Care plan, you’ll still get access to crucial features like live view, instant notifications, activity zones, local storage, and more.
Design and installation Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends The Ring Stick Up Cam Pro is much easier to install than the Tapo C120. Opting for the battery-powered format makes it easy to get your security camera up and running in a matter of minutes. After downloading the smartphone app, you’ll need to follow a few basic steps to get your device synced to your phone. After that, you can dive into settings to customize its performance or simply let it run with its presets.
The Tapo C120 requires a wired connection, which offers continuous power, but can be cumbersome to install. We ran into trouble trying to sync it with our internet, as it wouldn’t locate the 2.4GHz network. The connection finally worked after swapping from an Android device to iPhone — though it sounds like running into connection issues isn’t an uncommon occurrence for Tapo users.
 Once connected to the proper network, the rest of the installation process works flawlessly and is highly intuitive.
Ring’s camera is much bigger than the C120, standing nearly twice as tall, but with a stand that’s only marginally larger. Both look and feel premium, though the large, imposing presence of the Ring Stick Up Cam Pro ensures would-be intruders know they’re being recorded. The Tapo C120, meanwhile, is a bit more discrete and unobtrusive.
Resolution and night vision Tapo The Tapo C120 captures 2K QHD footage and color night vision. The Ring Stick Up Cam Pro, meanwhile, offers 1080p HDR footage and color night vision. When tested side by side, both products offer impressive images, with the option to zoom in to capture more details. However, the Ring Stick Up Cam Pro offers a generous 155-degree viewing angle, which allows you to see more of your home or property than you can with the C120 and its 120-degree viewing angle.
Features and spec list Ring Both products offer two-way audio, weatherproofing, smart notifications, and robust smartphone apps to modify their performance. They also include all the equipment needed to mount the camera, if you’d rather fix it to one spot permanently.
Two features you’ll find exclusively on the Ring Stick Up Cam Pro are Bird’s Eye Zones and 3D Motion Detection. These features work together to create an aerial map of your property and give you detailed graphics of where motion (or sound) was detected and how it moved through your camera’s field of view.
The Tapo C120, meanwhile, offers a built-in microSD card slot for local data storage and a built-in spotlight for enhanced nighttime images.
Which is the better security camera? The Ring Stick Up Cam Pro is the better security camera — as it should be, considering its larger price tag. With support for both battery or wired connections, a streamlined installation process, and the powerful 3D Motion Detection feature, it’s about as premium as security cameras get.
But the Ring Stick Up Cam Pro won’t be the right camera for every household. For example, if you plan to use the security camera indoors to monitor a small space (such as a living room or baby’s room), you won’t need all the bells and whistles it has to offer. Instead, the cheaper Tapo C120 will work just fine. Its resolution is surprisingly great, it features a built-in spotlight, and you don’t need a subscription. Consider giving it a look if you need something simple and affordable that doesn’t skimp on premium features.
Editors' Recommendations The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? Best security camera deals: Ring, Arlo, Blink and more on sale The Wyze Cam Floodlight Pro is a premium outdoor camera with tons of AI features Ring’s new indoor camera features a built-in privacy shutter Smart Home Arlo is responsible for two of the best smart security cameras on the market -- the Arlo Pro 4 and the Arlo Pro 5S. The Pro 5S clocks in at $250, while the older Pro 4 is a bit cheaper at $200. But is it really worth dropping an extra $50 to snag the newer Arlo Pro 5S? From video quality and built-in extras to power usage and more, here’s everything you need to know about the Arlo Pro 4 and Arlo Pro 5S security cameras before making a purchase.
Resolution and night video Both the Arlo Pro 4 and Arlo Pro 5S capture footage with a resolution of up to 2K. They also support HDR, making most images crisp and easy to decipher. You’ll also benefit from color night vision and a 160-degree viewing angle. In other words, both security cameras produce high-end footage that’s easy on the eyes.
Smart Home If you’re looking to protect your home, few options are as powerful (and affordable) as security cameras. The market has exploded with new products over the past few years, and today you’ll find a wide variety of smart home security cameras that are easy to install, carry reasonable price tags, and offer you peace of mind while out of town. But are smart security cameras worth installing? The short answer? Yes -- smart security cameras make a lot of sense for the majority of homes. However, there are a few caveats to consider. Here’s a closer look at whether you should install a smart security camera in 2023.
Check with your HOA and local government first Smart Home Spotlight cameras are smaller, nimbler versions of motion sensor floodlights used to protect outside areas. While today’s security cams feature plenty of night vision features, activating a spotlight adds some extra illumination -- and can frighten away unwanted guests, both human and animal.
Two of the most consumer-friendly, Wi-Fi-ready options are the Nest Cam Floodlight version and the recently-announced Ring Spotlight Cam Pro. Let’s pit these two against each other and see which comes out ahead! Overall design and installation Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
