Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Walmart just discounted this cordless vacuum and mop to $99 By Albert Bassili Close Tineco While corded vacuums are great for doing extended cleaning, they can be a bit cumbersome and a pain to use, especially if you don’t have a good distribution of wall outlets. That’s where cordless vacuum s come in, allowing you to roam freely in your home without worrying about tripping over any wires. The downside is that they tend to only run for around 40-60 minutes, but if you grab a great cordless vacuum like the Tineco iFloor 2 Max, that will be more than enough time for you to get your cleaning done.
The Tineco iFloor 2 Max usually goes for $199, but Walmart is having a great sale on it right now that brings it down to just $99, which constitutes a substantial $100 discount. That’s a great price for a vacuum that you can use both wet and dry, with some great features.
Why you should buy the Tineco iFloor 2 Max Cordless Wet/Dry Vacuum Cleaner What’s great about the Tineco iFloor 2 Max is that it’s a combination wet and dry vacuum, which means you don’t have to worry about changing heads when you want to deal with one or the other. While that does make it a bit bigger than your typical vacuum, the advantage is that it can scrub and vacuum in one go, and it even cleans itself afterward with a special self-cleaning mode when it’s charging, although it does clean itself as you use it too. That feature is pretty helpful because the whole vacuum comes with two tanks, one for clean water and one for dirty water, so you’re always using clean water for your floors rather than recirculated dirty water.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
You’ll also be happy to know that the Tineco iFloor 2 Max works on both hardwood and soft surfaces like carpets, so you can use it pretty much anywhere, even on things like laminate and vinyl too, which is great. There’s also a spot-clean mode that gives you maximum power for those tough and stubborn messes. The only big downside is that it only has about a 22-minute runtime, which isn’t surprising given that it’s a multi-function cordless vacuum. Still, that may be an issue for some, so be sure to keep that in mind.
The Tineco iFloor 2 Max is a great vacuum for almost any spill, especially since you can grab one from Walmart for $99. And, if the slower runtime bothers you, you can always grab two since it would have cost $199 anyway without the discount! That said, if you’d like a few more options, it might be worth checking out these other cordless vacuum deals , as well as the general Black Friday deals that are happening concurrently.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The best Vitamix blender Black Friday deals — from just $125 Best robot vacuum Black Friday deals: Save on Roomba, Shark, more The best early office chair Black Friday deals available now The best Black Friday refrigerator deals you can shop right now Deals Smart Home Black Friday deals are here, meaning you can buy new appliances and replace old ones for cheap. While many of us are using air fryers more than ever, it's still useful to have one of the best microwaves available for you to use. Some of the best microwave brands include LG and Samsung, along with KitchenAid. We've helped you by finding the best early microwave Black Friday deals and we've listed them all below. These include all the major brands along with some other options too. Check them out below and enjoy faster cooked food in no time.
Best LG microwave Black Friday deals LG is a big name brand for all manners of electrical devices. Responsible for some of the best TVs around, it's also found the time to make great microwaves and kitchen appliances like refrigerators and washing machines. If you want a stylish microwave with some cool features, LG is a brand to strongly consider.
Smart Home While many devices use built-in or sealed batteries, there are still plenty of devices like TV remotes and children's toys that require you to add your own AA or AAA batteries. Thankfully, Black Friday deals also include these with plenty of excellent deals around on the best rechargeable batteries as well as conventional AA and AAA batteries. If you're looking to stock up, check out all the deals we've found below to help you save big.
Best AA battery Black Friday deals AA batteries are used for many different purposes. For instance, they can be used for a flashlight, a calculator, a digital thermometer, along with smoke detectors or a traditional wall clock. They can also be used for remotes along with toys, so they're a very versatile type of battery. Old school gamers will likely fondly remember them as 'Gameboy' batteries referring to swapping out batteries for the Nintendo Gameboy. While many devices may use batteries that can be charged via a USB cable or similar, there are still enough using AA batteries that it's handy to have some spare at home.
Powermax 24-Count AA Batteries -- Smart Home Herman Miller makes some of the best office chairs around but they're far from cheap. Instead, they're considered to be a worthy but pricy investment for your home office. After all, your health is priceless so it's important to keep your spine and limbs supported while you're working away. While it's rare to see a Herman Miller sale, for once, that's changed. The Herman Miller Black Friday sale is underway representing some of the best Black Friday deals around at the moment. If you're looking to upgrade your office equipment to something stylish and incredibly comfortable, read on while we take you through the highlights of the sale.
Best Herman Miller Black Friday deal Herman Miller Aeron Chair -- $956, was $1,275 The Herman Miller Aeron Chair represents some of the best that Herman Miller has to offer. It provides you with the ideal sit which is having your chest open, shoulders back, and pelvis tilted slightly forward. It has breathable fabric that keeps you cool and comfortable even on the warmest of days, while there are adjustable PostureFit SL pads which provide lumbar support and help stabilize the base of your spine.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
