Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? By Jon Bitner Close The Arlo Pro 4 has long been one of the best outdoor security cameras , but that might be changing with the arrival of the Arlo Essential 2nd Gen. This refreshed camera supports up to 2K footage capture, offers a similar design to that of the Arlo Pro 4, and clocks in at a much lower price.
Pricing and monthly fees Design and installation Resolution and night vision Features and spec list Which is the better security camera? But should you rush out to replace your Arlo Pro 4 with the new Arlo Essential 2nd Gen? And if you’re new to the market, which is the better purchase? Here’s a closer look at both to help you find the right one for your smart home.
Pricing and monthly fees Arlo The Arlo Essential 2nd Gen is offered in two formats. The HD version costs just $50, while the premium 2K version costs $100. The Arlo Pro 4 regularly costs $200, though it’s typically on sale for less than $150. Both cameras also support Arlo Secure — a monthly subscription that unlocks useful features such as cloud saves and video history.
Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? Blink Outdoor Camera 4 launches with Person Detection, new design, 2-year battery life Membership starts at $5 per month for a single camera (and it’s highly recommended you sign up). Higher tiers are also available, though these are intended for larger security systems with more than one camera or homes that want 24/7 professional monitoring.
Design and installation Arlo The new Arlo Essential 2nd Gen shares a lot of the same design elements as the Arlo Pro 4. This includes a black front-facing camera and a white enclosure. The Essential is a bit smaller than the Arlo Pro 4, though most visitors to your home will have a difficult time telling the two apart.
Installation is simple for both cameras, thanks to a wire-free setup process. The Pro 4 slightly beats out the Essential in this category, as it uses a magnetic mounting plate so you can easily attach and detach the camera. For the Essential, you’ll make use of a sliding mechanism to lock it into place.
Resolution and night vision Arlo As mentioned earlier, the Essential is offered as both an HD and 2K device. Regardless of which you pick, you’ll also get color night vision — which is especially attractive on the cheap $50 HD version. The Arlo Pro 4 is only available in one format, 2K. It also supports color night vision. What sets it apart from the Essential is its 160-degree field-of-view, which allows it to capture a massive portion of your property. The Essential is no slouch, but its 130-degree field-of-view is noticeably narrower.
Features and spec list John Velasco / Digital Trends The majority of specs are shared across the Essential and Arlo Pro 4. This includes two-way audio, 12x digital zoom, an integrated spotlight, and weatherproofing to handle inclement weather and extreme temperatures (down to -20 degrees Celsius and up to 45 degrees Celsius). One of the only differences between the cameras is battery life — the Essential lasts up to four months and the Pro 4 lasts up to six months. This will vary depending on your usage, but expect the Pro 4 to get a bit more juice than its more affordable sibling.
Which is the better security camera? The Arlo Pro 4 is without a doubt the better outdoor security camera , but it may not be the right one for your home. There’s no denying its battery life and viewing angle are better than that of the Essential 2nd Gen — but considering almost everything else is shared, frugal shoppers should opt for the Essential. This is even more true if you have a smaller property to cover, as the viewing angle won’t be as important. And if you don’t mind downgrading to HD, you can save a bundle of cash with the Essential.
For users with a large property to cover — or who need that extra battery life — the Arlo Pro 4 is still the better option. It’s even more enticing if you can snag it on sale, as it’s often listed for as low as $130 during big shopping holidays. Rest assured that both cameras are excellent options, though the Arlo Pro 4 narrowly beats out its newest sibling.
Looking for something with more battery life? Check out our comparison of the Arlo Pro 4 and Essential XL 2nd Gen.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Best security camera deals: Ring, Arlo, Blink and more on sale Ring Indoor Cam vs. Arlo Essential Indoor Camera: which is best? Roborock S8 Pro Ultra vs. Roborock S7 Max Ultra: Which is the better robot vacuum? Smart Home The Wyze catalog is already loaded with popular outdoor (and indoor) cameras, and the newly announced Wyze Cam Floodlight Pro is looking to give shoppers another affordable option to consider. Offering a 2.5K resolution, 180-degree coverage, and the ability to use onboard AI to trigger motion alerts and activate the floodlight, there are tons of useful features packed into this $150 smart home gadget.
Alongside its premium filming resolution and impressive 180-degree field-of-view, the Wyze Cam Floodlight Pro also lets you enable a voice-deterrence system, which will automatically play a voice prompt telling intruders they’re being recorded. And if that’s not enough, the 105-decibel siren should scare away any would-be burglars (or dangerous wildlife).
Smart Home The Roborock S8 Pro Ultra and Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni are two of the newest (and most expensive) robot vacuums to hit the market. They both come from companies with reputations for making powerful, high-end products -- but is one more fit for your home than the other? Here’s a comparison of the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra and Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni to help you decide which one to bring into your house.
Pricing and availability Smart Home The Blink Mini Indoor Camera and the Arlo Essential Indoor Cam are two of the best indoor cameras of 2023. Both provide you with an easy way to keep an eye on your home while you're away -- but with two remarkably different price tags (the Arlo clocks in at $100, while the Blink Mini is just $35), you might be wondering if the Arlo Essential Indoor Cam is worth the added investment.
Before you rush off and buy either product, here’s a closer look at the Blink Mini and Arlo Essential Indoor Cam to determine which is best for your needs and budget.
Video quality Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
