Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? By Jon Bitner Close Offering impressive video capture, easy installation processes, and an intuitive smartphone app, Arlo stands out as one of the best manufacturers of security cameras.
 Its catalog has grown a bit larger recently with the launch of its Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen — but how does this new arrival stack up to the iconic Arlo Pro 4? Pricing and monthly fees Design and installation Resolution and night vision Features and spec list Which is the better security camera? Here’s a look at the Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen and Arlo Pro 4 to help you determine which is best for your security system.
Pricing and monthly fees Arlo The Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen costs $100 for the HD version and $150 for the 2K version. The Arlo Pro 4 is only offered in one format — a 2K camera for $200. That price is often slashed by $50 during big shopping holidays, and it’s not impossible to find it for less than $150 if you’re patient.
Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? The best indoor security cameras of 2023 Both products are supported by the monthly subscription service Arlo Secure.
 Without a plan, you won’t get a video history on the Arlo Smart Cloud and will only receive the most basic notifications when motion is detected. Several different versions of Arlo Secure are available — though the basic plan for $5 per month offers smart notifications, access to cloud saves, smart activity zones, and other useful features.
Design and installation Arlo Both security cameras look incredibly premium. Featuring a rounded design with a black front and white surrounding chassis, they’re arguably two of the best-looking security cameras on the market. The Arlo Pro 4 looks a bit more streamlined, and it uses a magnetic mount to make installation a breeze. Installation is also rather simple for the XL, but there’s no denying the magnetic mount of the Arlo Pro 4 is a cool feature.
The general installation process is largely the same for both products. This includes downloading the Arlo app to your smartphone , creating an account, then installing the mounting bracket on your property. From there, the camera can be easily attached when charged and removed when it needs to be refueled.
Resolution and night vision Arlo As noted above, the XL is available in two formats — HD and 2K. The Pro 4 is only offered as a 2K product. Both also feature color night vision, making it easy to capture footage on your property regardless of the time of day.
Features and spec list John Velasco / Digital Trends The main attraction of the Essential XL is its battery life, which lasts up to 16 months. Compared to the six months of the Arlo Pro 4, that’s an incredible improvement. Beyond that advantage, the XL shares many of the same specs as the Arlo Pro 4. This includes 12x optical zoom, two-way audio, an integrated spotlight, and a built-in siren.
The advantage of the Arlo Pro 4 is that it offers a 160-degree viewing angle compared to 130 degrees for the XL. It also uses dual motion sensors instead of the single motion sensor found on the XL and uses wind cancellation to improve audio from its two-way microphones.
Which is the better security camera? Both the Arlo Pro 4 and Arlo Essential XL are remarkable security cameras. And when you compare the 2K XL camera to the Arlo Pro 4, they both carry similar price tags. Essentially, the big difference between the two is battery life and field of view.
If you love the idea of your camera running for more than a year before needing a recharge, then pick the XL. If you need something to capture a wide 160-degree portion of your property, then the Arlo Pro 4 is the way to go. If you just want a reliable camera, pick whichever one is on sale for a lower price. You truly can’t go wrong with either device, and both are likely to treat you well for years to come.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 Best security camera deals: Ring, Arlo, Blink and more on sale Blink Outdoor Camera 4 launches with Person Detection, new design, 2-year battery life Home Security Smart Home The cost of installing security cameras varies widely, and there are multiple factors you need to consider beyond the initial price. If you choose to have them professionally installed, expect to pay more than if you put them up yourself. You’ll also want to look at ongoing subscriptions and memberships, which are often required for most products -- including popular ones from Ring, Blink, and Arlo.
Trying to figure out your budget before investing in security cameras? Here’s a closer look at every expense you’ll incur during the process.
How much will installation add to your bill? Smart Home If you’re looking for a reliable indoor security camera, it’s hard to go wrong with the Ring Indoor Cam or Arlo Essential Indoor Camera. Both can capture crystal clear footage, are highly customizable, and sync with smartphone apps so you can review all your notifications. Amazon recently launched an updated version of the Ring Indoor Cam -- but is it better than the aging Arlo Essential Indoor Camera? Here’s a closer look at the Ring Indoor Cam and Arlo Essential Indoor Camera to help you decide which is best for your smart home.
Video quality and cost Smart Home SimpliSafe is already one of the best options when shopping for home security solutions, and it’s looking to become even more enticing with the launch of the new Smart Alarm Indoor Camera. Coinciding with the latest product is a new service -- 24/7 Live Guard Protection -- which allows agents to access a live feed of your property for enhanced response times.
The 24/7 Live Guard Protection service is only available on the Smart Alarm Indoor Camera. Previously, SimpliSafe agents could only review recorded footage after an alarm was triggered. Now, the team can monitor a live stream through the Smart Alarm Indoor Camera for improved response times. They can even interact with the intruder thanks to two-way audio, informing them that the police are on the way and that they’re being recorded.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
