Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell: Which is best? By Jon Bitner Close Arlo is best known for its security cameras , though it has also produced a few popular video doorbells.
 The Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell has long been a staple of its catalog, but with the launch of the new Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen, is it worth upgrading your doorbell? Here’s a look at these two similar devices — from resolution and battery life to field-of-view and more — to help you decide.
Price and subscriptions Design Installation Features and specs Verdict Price and subscriptions Arlo The new Video Doorbell 2nd Gen is offered in two models. The one that films in 2K costs $130 and the one that films in HD costs just $80. The Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell is only offered in one format and costs $150 — though, as an older product, it’s often on sale for just under $100.
Since both products are made by Arlo, they’re both supported by Arlo Secure.
 This is a monthly subscription service that unlocks key features such as video history and cloud saves. The cheapest plan costs $5 per month, though you’ll find more expensive options if you’d like to bundle in professional monitoring and other premium features. At the very least, owners of either camera should spring for the basic subscription plan.
Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 The best video doorbells for 2023 Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Design Digital Trends Arlo loves to use black-and-white color schemes for its products, and neither of these video doorbells stray far from that philosophy. The new Video Doorbell 2nd Gen looks a bit more compact than the Arlo Essential, with a front-facing camera and faceplate that’s almost entirely black. At the bottom, you’ll find the doorbell button, which can flash white when activated. The older Essential Video Doorbell arguably looks better, however, as its slim shape has a few more contours and bevels that catch your eye. They’re both, however, among the best-looking video doorbells and both should look great on your porch.
Installation Arlo The Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen and Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell both support wireless and wired connections. If you want a streamlined installation process, you can run them without dealing with any wires. But if you want the perks of a continuous power supply, they can be hardwired into your home.
Regardless of which installation format you use, you’ll need to use the Arlo smartphone app to guide you through the process and interact with your device. The app is easy to use and intuitive — and if you opt for the fast wireless power option, it shouldn’t take more than 30 minutes to be up and running with either video doorbell.
Features and specs Arlo Both video doorbells work with Alexa , Google Home , and IFTTT. They also both film with a 180-degree field of view, allowing you to capture packages at the foot of your door without putting the faces of tall guests out of frame. Other useful features include two-way audio, weatherproofing, and black-and-white night vision. The Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen films in either 1080p (for the HD version) or 1944 x 1944 (for the 2K version). The Arlo Essential is offered in one format that films in 1536 x 1536.
Verdict The new Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen 2K is arguably the best video doorbell in Arlo’s lineup. However, it shares many of the same specs as the Essential, so if you’re looking to save a bit of cash, consider looking for the Essential when it goes on sale. Its resolution isn’t quite as premium as that of the Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen 2K, but it’s much better than the Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen HD and can often be purchased for just an extra $20.
Frugal shoppers, meanwhile, can simply pick up the Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen HD. The only difference with this version is its resolution, which is still vibrant enough to pick out details and offers the same 180-degree field-of-view.
The cameras share a tremendous amount of features, but there’s no denying the new Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen 2K is the video doorbell to beat. Don’t feel like you need to rush out and upgrade your existing video doorbell, but if you’re new to the market and want the best, you can’t go wrong with the latest from Arlo.
Editors' Recommendations Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles Best Arlo Black Friday deals: Save on security cameras and bundles Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? Wyze Video Doorbell v2 vs. Wyze Video Doorbell Pro Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? Home Security Versus Video Doorbells Smart Home The Arlo Essentail Wireless Doorbell next to an iPhone 12 Pro give you a good idea on its size. Digital Trends If you've been considering one of the many Ring doorbell deals going on at the moment and you're keen to try a different brand, how about the Arlo Essential Wi-Fi Smart Video Doorbell? It usually costs $150, but right now you can buy it from Best Buy for $100 so you're saving $50 off the regular price. An ideal way to make your home more secure as well as simply know if it's worth answering the door, it's a great thing to buy. Here's what you need to know before you hit the button.
Smart Home The Echo Pop and HomePod mini are radically different products. Both are smart speakers -- allowing you to listen to music or chat with a voice assistant -- but that's about where the similarities end. Echo Pop is designed as an affordable, entry-level device while the HomePod mini clocks in at a hefty $100.
But is Apple's HomePod mini worth the added expense? Or should shoppers stick with the cheaper Echo Pop? Here's a look at the advantages of both smart speakers to help you decide.
Pricing and design Smart Home Equipping your home with a security camera will give you peace of mind, especially if you choose to go with the Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera. Amazon slashed its original price of $130 with a 46% discount, so you'll only have to pay $70 -- at this price, most families will be able to afford to buy multiples for extra layers of protection. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase if you want to take advantage of the $60 in savings though, as we're not sure when the offer will expire or how long stocks will last.
Why you should buy the Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera The Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera is a wireless home security camera that's fast and easy to install -- it connects to your Wi-Fi network without the need for a hub, and it's powered by a rechargeable battery so there's no need to link it to a power source. You also have the option to place it anywhere, outdoors or indoors, because it's a weather-resistant device, and it works seamlessly with smart home systems that are powered by Amazon's Alexa, Google Home, Apple Home, and Samsung SmartThings.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
