Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 By Jon Bitner Close The Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen is one of the newest additions to the Arlo roster. Available in two different formats (2K and HD), it’s a versatile video doorbell that clocks in well below $150 regardless of which you opt for. The Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2, meanwhile, is a premium product that carries a hefty price tag.
Pricing and monthly fees Design and installation Resolution and night vision Features and spec list Is the Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 worth it? But does it justify the price tag? Or are you better off with the cheaper Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen? Here’s a closer look at the Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 and Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen to help you figure out which one is better for your smart home.
Pricing and monthly fees Ring The Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen starts at $80 for the HD version and $130 for the 2K version. Beyond one recording in HD resolution and the other filming in 2K resolution, they’re virtually identical. They’re supported by Arlo Secure, which costs $5 per month for a basic membership. This grants you access to cloud saves, smart notifications, and other sought-after features.
Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? The Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 is much more expensive than both versions of the Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen, clocking in at an eye-watering $250. To unlock all its features, you’ll need a Ring Protect subscription, which starts at $4 per month and allows your video doorbell to save video history for up to 180 days and provide you with smart notifications.
Design and installation Arlo The Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen looks like most other video doorbells in the Arlo lineup. This means it has a sophisticated white and black color palette and a pill-shaped design. The front is almost entirely black, while the sides are white. A glowing white ring appears around the doorbell button when activated. By all accounts, it’s a sleek device.
The Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2, meanwhile, follows Ring’s standard video doorbell format. This includes a silver frame with a black interior — which houses the camera and doorbell button. When pressed, a blue ring appears around the button. Like the Arlo product, the Video Doorbell Pro 2 looks premium (as it should, considering its price).
Installation is a bit different across the two products, with the Ring doorbell requiring a wired setup. The Arlo video doorbell offers both a wired and battery option, giving you more versatility when it comes to where (and how) you install it. Both Arlo and Ring require you to download their accompanying smartphone app to complete your setup.
Resolution and night vision Arlo The Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen films in 2K or HD resolutions, depending on which model you choose. The 2K version records in up to 1944 x 1944, while the HD version films in 1536 x 1536. Both video doorbells use a 180-degree viewing angle, which captures a large portion of your porch — both vertically and horizontally. At night, they record in black and white.
The Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 records in 1536p HD+ with HDR support. It does, however, also offer HDR support, which creates surprisingly vibrant images. It also supports color night vision to capture impressive details in dark environments. It also uses a wide viewing angle, with a 150-degree field of view horizontally and vertically.
Features and spec list Ring Arlo loaded the Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen with features. This includes two-way audio with noise-reducing microphones, 12x digital zoom, built-in quick replies, and a built-in siren. It’ll also get up to four months of battery life — which falls a bit behind other cameras such as the Arlo Essential Video Doorbell. If you’re looking to sync it with the rest of your smart home, the doorbell is compatible with Alexa , Google Home , and IFTTT.
The Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 offers two-way audio with enhanced sound, support for the unique 3D Motion Detection feature, pre-roll video previews, quick replies, and built-in Alexa greetings. The big selling point is its 3D Motion Detection, however, as it allows you to pinpoint exact movements and sounds with shocking accuracy — a feature that’s only found on a handful of Ring products.
Is the Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 worth it? The typical household will probably be best served by the affordable Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen. Both the 2K and HD formats offer everything you need in a video doorbell yet clocks in at a reasonable price. They also film in resolutions that are equal to or better than the Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 — and the option to use wired or battery setups makes them ideal for all households.
However, if you need the absolute best in protection, spring for the Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2. It’s quite a bit more expensive, but its access to color night vision and 3D Motion Detection make it hard to beat. These essentially give you more ways to keep track of who is at your front door, and if you have a bunch of visitors or privacy concerns, you’ll love its detailed reports.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? The best video doorbells for 2023 Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? New Wyze Video Doorbell v2 offers microSD card slot, 2K resolution for just $40 Ring celebrates Halloween by adding spooky Quick Replies to its video doorbells Home Security Video Doorbells Smart Home Ecobee, known for its lineup of popular smart thermostats, is officially jumping into the world of video doorbells with the aptly named Smart Doorbell Camera. Featuring an impressive 175-degree vertical field of view, premium materials, and the ability to sync with the rest of the Ecobee home security catalog, it's a well-equipped device that's taking aim at big names such as Ring and Arlo.
The big selling point of the Ecobee Smart Doorbell Camera is its 175-degree field of view, which allows it to capture packages left at your doorstep without cutting off your view of tall guests ringing your doorbell. It also boasts enhanced ability in lowlight situations and records in 1080p.
Smart Home The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni and iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ are two of the newest robot vacuums on the market. Offering not just the ability to vacuum and mop, but to also empty their dustbins, they’re two of the best robot vacuums money can buy. But which one is a better fit for your home? From vacuuming prowess and mopping skills to additional features and pricing, here’s a look at how the X2 Omni and Combo j9+ compare.
Pricing and availability Smart Home For those who are searching for video doorbell deals, Amazon's Ring offers the widest lineup. If you're interested, there are always price cuts for Ring Video Doorbells, some of which are included in our list of the best video doorbells. We've rounded up some of the best Ring Video Doorbell deals here, but you should be warned that they won't last for a long time. If there's something that catches your eye, you're going to want to take advantage of the offer as soon as possible as it may be gone sooner than you expect.
Ring Video Doorbell (Wired) — $39, was $65 The Ring Video Doorbell Wired leads the way in simplicity and ease of use, with Wi-Fi connectivity to connect to your home network and easily sync your doorbell with your smartphone or tablet, giving you full control of the Ring Video Doorbell Wired from anywhere you’re able to take your mobile device. Wi-Fi connectivity also allows you to receive alerts, accept a live video feed from the doorbell, and talk to your visitor from your smartphone or tablet.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
