Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 By Michael Bizzaco Close Alexa-enabled devices give you an easy way to interact with the rest of your smart home. Security cameras, smart locks, video doorbells, and other gadgets can all be controlled using voice commands given through Alexa — but your device can be further augmented using skills.
Alexa can recommend movies In the kitchen, Alexa can provide Instant Pot recipes too Alexa can help you eat healthier Alexa can find your phone Alexa can keep you updated on your favorite sports teams Alexa can read you a short bedtime story Alexa can read you customized news briefings Alexa can play your favorite music Alexa can learn cocktails and help you select a wine Alexa can call your friend in an emergency Alexa can help you navigate the NYC Subway You can play games with Alexa Alexa can help kill boredom with a guided magical quest Alexa can tell you details about the weather Alexa can save you money on gas Alexa can start your car Alexa can walk you through a workout Calm your pets Alexa can help pick you up when you’re feeling down Alexa can help you sleep Alexa can start your Xbox Alexa can help with homework Alexa can donate to charity on your behalf Find other skills Alexa skills are apps that can be downloaded to your device to give it additional functionality. Most of these are free, though a few do require payment. Alexa skills can do everything from giving you movie recommendations to launching an interactive gaming adventure, making them a powerful way to improve your smart speaker or smart display.
Need some help sifting through the thousands of options available to you? Here are the best Alexa skills of 2023.
The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart locks for 2023 The best Amazon Alexa smart speakers Alexa can recommend movies Dan Baker/Digital Trends If you’re stumped on what to watch this weekend, your Alexa device can suggest some award-winning flicks. On the movie end of things, the Valossa Movie Finder skill can recommend titles based on descriptions of movies that you feed it. You can also make requests like “ Alexa , find comedies from the 1970s.” In the kitchen, Alexa can provide Instant Pot recipes too Image used with permission by copyright holder Got an Instant Pot? Alexa can instantly pull up Instant Pot recipes for you to try out, and all you have to do is enable a skill. What makes this skill really useful is that there are many different ways in which you can filter through the recipes. Go by cuisine, diet preference, difficulty level, or even ingredients (so you can finally clear out those almost-expired foods in your fridge). You’ll be able to quickly put dinner on the table, and you can effortlessly find new recipes to try out that may become a permanent addition to your home cookbook.
Alexa can help you eat healthier Image used with permission by copyright holder Keeping track of your calories? Whether you’re trying to lose weight, gain weight, or just maintain a healthy weight, keeping tabs on your calorie intake can be really important. Do that easily with an Alexa skill. With this Track by Nutritionix skill, you can say things like, “ Alexa , tell food tracker to log a glass of milk,” or “ Alexa , ask food tracker for my calorie report.” Instead of counting your calories in a notebook that can be easily misplaced or forgotten, you can simultaneously log calories while preparing a meal.
Alexa can find your phone Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s easy to misplace your phone or have it slip out of your pocket into the depths of the couch. If someone else is home, your first instinct is likely to frantically ask them to call it. With its Where’sMyPhone skill, Alexa can do that for you, so you don’t need to wait for a roommate or spouse to get home.
Alexa can keep you updated on your favorite sports teams Image used with permission by copyright holder Although it’s a default skill, you might not be aware that you can go into your settings via Alexa and customize your sports news. You can add your favorite professional or college teams and get updates on schedules and scores. Go to the Alexa app and select Settings > Sports to get started.
Alexa can read you a short bedtime story Image used with permission by copyright holder This one is for any parent who gets tired of reading the same bedtime stories over and over. The Sleep Tales skill combines soothing background sounds with a random story that includes Beauty and the Beast, Robinson Crusoe, and A Day on the Bay. Premium members can unlock dozens of extra tales.
Alexa can read you customized news briefings Image used with permission by copyright holder We’re not referring to a specific skill, but rather the ability to customize the news you get every day. By default, asking Alexa for a “flash briefing” runs you through the top news stories from a few handpicked sources. But you can enable everything from The Wall Street Journal to an (unofficial) Reddit app if you should so desire. The settings page on the Alexa companion app will let you add or remove sources until you have a flash briefing tailored to your liking.
Alexa can play your favorite music Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Want to listen to music, but don’t have speakers in the house? Your Alexa-enabled device functions as a music player, and once you register the device to your Amazon account, you’ll be able to play music from your Amazon Music library. Prefer to stream music from a service like Spotify? You can do that, too, and even use the Spotify app on your smartphone as a remote control. Like listening to some gentle, relaxing music while you fall asleep? You can ask Alexa to stop playing music after a certain amount of time, so the music will stop once you’re in la-la land.
Alexa can learn cocktails and help you select a wine Image used with permission by copyright holder The Mixologist skill gives you access to tons of incredible drink recipes. If you’re watching TV and see someone order an unfamiliar cocktail, or if you just don’t know what’s in your favorite mixed drink, the app will rattle off the ingredients for you. One great version of this skill is through Mixologist, which makes it particularly easy to search for a specific cocktail or find cocktails with a certain base.
Then there’s MySomm , which also lets you know what kind of wines pair best with what you’re having for dinner. If you tend to entertain and have a well-stocked liquor cabinet, you’ll be using this constantly. It’s worth noting that MySomm asks you to activate it by referring to it as “Wine Gal,” which means said company will probably make fun of you.
Alexa can call your friend in an emergency Image used with permission by copyright holder Ask My Buddy is a helpful skill for anyone who might find themselves in a situation where they need help but can’t access their phone. It can call or text a specific contact (or all programmed contacts) quickly and easily in case of an emergency. It does not call 911 or other emergency services, however.
Alexa can help you navigate the NYC Subway Image used with permission by copyright holder There are a variety of skills for public transportation hubs similar to NYC Subway. Enabling these skills will allow Alexa to rattle off delays along specific lines, so you know just how much time you’ll need to get where you’re going.
You can play games with Alexa Image used with permission by copyright holder Got a geography buff in the house? There are plenty of Alexa skills that offer fun trivia games. If you like traditional trivia, enable the Jeopardy skill and have a fun game night. Of course, there are many other quiz and gaming options offered by Alexa for pretty much any subject and age group you could desire.
Alexa can help kill boredom with a guided magical quest Image used with permission by copyright holder The Magic Door, one of the highest-rated Alexa skills, is a great solution for when you’re bored and want an experience to help pass the time. It’s an interactive adventure that allows you to explore a magical land where you meet a variety of creatures such as rabbits, gnomes, wizards, fortune tellers, and so on. You’re able to help them all with their quests and, in the process, fully map out the land beyond the door. Time will fly by! On the other hand, if you already have a good idea of what sort of adventures you like to go on, you may prefer the Skyrim Very Special Edition skill, which allows you to explore the Elder Scrolls game through an interactive (and tongue-in-cheek) Alexa experience developed by Bethesda Game Studios. You can find our other favorite Alexa games to play here.
Alexa can tell you details about the weather Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Alexa does give you local forecasts by default, but this amazing Big Sky weather skill gives incredibly detailed breakdowns. If you want to know the sunrise and sunset times, for example, or what the weather was like a year ago, this app can do that for you.
Alexa can save you money on gas Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends With the GasBuddy skill, you can use Alexa to find the best prices on local gas, the best-rated convenience stores, and even the cleanest rest-stop bathrooms. Just say things like “ Alexa , find me the closest gas station with a bathroom,” or “ Alexa , is $2.70 a good price for gas?” By joining the growing GasBuddy network, you can even report your own local findings for the best deals on fuel and the cleanest roadside depots.
Alexa can start your car Tesla If you have the right model, a variety of vehicle brands have created Alexa skills that allow you to use Alexa to start your car, make sure it’s locked, and operate a variety of internal settings from temperature to lights.
Alexa can walk you through a workout Image used with permission by copyright holder Gym memberships and personal trainers don’t come cheap, but fortunately, you don’t need to shell out loads of cash to get in great shape. Your voice assistant Alexa can narrate a workout for you, and it’s totally free. Let Alexa walk you through situps, pushups, and bicep curls — just don’t be surprised when you’re sore the next morning. Here are some workout skills to get you started.
Calm your pets Image used with permission by copyright holder 2020 aside, we can’t really be with our pets all the time. But Alexa has skills that can help out! Calm My Dog will play slow-tempo music specifically chosen to help calm dogs and keep playing until you return (with a premium option available). Calm My Cat does the same thing, except the music is chosen with cats in mind (no, we can’t really tell the difference, but maybe your pet can). And if you’re actually worried about a specific pet behavior, you can enable the skill MyPetDoc, an artificial intelligence (A.I.) designed to talk about common pet problems and what you should do next. You can even use it to speak to a live veterinarian for a fee.
Alexa can help pick you up when you’re feeling down Image used with permission by copyright holder Got the blues? Need a spark of inspiration? Let Alexa play the role of a life coach. With the Inspire Me skill, you can raise your spirits just by saying “ Alexa , inspire me.” Alexa will respond with uplifting quotes from the most renowned philanthropists and positivity gurus, planting a seed of hope in your garden of woe. You can even sort inspiring messages by speaker and topic by saying things like “ Alexa , ask Inspire Me to play Martin Luther King,” or “ Alexa , ask Inspire Me about failure.” Alexa can help you sleep Digital Trends Let’s take a moment to thank our tech for helping us get some shut-eye.
 With the Sleep and Relaxation Sounds skill, your Echo can play a peaceful roulette of slumber-inducing sounds, from thunderstorms and gentle rain to babbling brooks and steady heartbeats.
Alexa can start your Xbox Les Shu/Digital Trends The demise of the Xbox Kinect has left many Xbox users unable to use voice commands on the Xbox. Thankfully Alexa has an Xbox Skill that gives you the ability to issue voice commands to your Xbox just like the good ol’ days. You can turn the Xbox on and even launch a game using this skill.
Alexa can help with homework Image used with permission by copyright holder Alexa can even help your kids solve homework troubles when they get stuck. She can answer a multitude of homework-related problems, helping students with quizzes, spelling, and more. Here are six ways Alexa can help kids with their homework.
Alexa can donate to charity on your behalf Image used with permission by copyright holder Feel like donating to charity? Alexa can help with that, too. A number of charities have set up skills with Alexa that allow you to donate directly with a simple voice command. Simply say, “ Alexa , make a donation to [charity of your choice].” You can find a full list of charities on Alexa here (there are a lot, and your favorite charity is probably there), with options including Love Justice International, American Childhood Cancer Organization, Bridges to America, House of Hope, Toys for Tots, and many, many others.
Find other skills Image used with permission by copyright holder Not a fan of any skills mentioned above? You can use Skill Finder to hunt down new skills or find anything that’s trending today. Simply enable the skill, then say, “Alexa, open Skill Finder.” From there, you’ll get a rundown of the newest skills. Plenty of other voice commands work with the program, so be sure to enable it on your device and check it out every day.
Editors' Recommendations The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 The best smart home devices for 2023 Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? At long last, Amazon brings AI features to Alexa The best smart plugs of 2023: What is a smart plug, and which do I need? Amazon Amazon Alexa Smart Home If you want to upgrade your house into a smart-home, the first step is getting a hub that all your fancy new devices can connect to. Amazon's Echo devices are perfect for that. There are a lot of different options in the Echo line, such as smart speakers and smart displays. Choosing which model is best for you will come down to your available space and what you intend to use the device for. We've broken down every model and generation of the Echo that is currently on sale, so read on to find out which one is best for you.
Echo Pop — $25, was $40 The Echo Pop is definitely what you could call a "cute snack of an Echo device." Its small, semi-sphere body, low price, and four cute colors lend it to being in just about any home. Our Echo Pop review called it the perfect price for getting into Alexa. Furthermore it is great for small spaces and your bedroom will love the bonus Eero mesh inside. Oh, and if you're worried about privacy in the bedroom (you should be) there is an easy mic off button on the top. You'll also know when Alexa is listening because, as pictured above, the light bar at the top will turn blue once you've engaged Alexa. At 3.9 x 3.3 x 3.6 inches, it's the perfect gadget to spruce up your bedroom's smart gadget environment.
Smart Home Amazon Alexa is an interactive voice assistant that can check the weather, launch your favorite playlist, and everything in between. Alexa can be found on most Amazon products, including the new Echo Pop, the iconic Echo Dot, and even a variety of smart thermostats, soundbars, lamps, and more. Aside from taking basic commands from you, Alexa can also dish out commands to the rest of your connected smart home -- making it easy to streamline your life.
Interested in learning more about Amazon Alexa? Then you’re in the right place. Here’s a closer look at where Alexa comes from, how it works, where it got its name, and just about everything else you’d want to know about the popular voice assistant and smart home savant.
Who/what is Alexa? Smart Home When it comes to smart home ecosystems, Amazon Alexa is at the top of the class. Not only can you create incredible routines and automate hundreds of tasks, but the number of Alexa-compatible gadgets seems to grow larger by the day. Better yet, Amazon is committed to making many of its hubs (including just about everything in the Echo lineup) work seamlessly with the Matter standard -- which should only make things more exciting throughout 2023.
In this guide, we review some of the best interactive Alexa hardware in the way of speakers, displays, lights, wall plugs, thermostats, smart locks, cameras, and appliances. You can make your life easier with an Alexa-powered home, and we’ll show you where to begin.
The best Alexa smart speakers and displays Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
