Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best holiday smart lights By Tyler Lacoma and Simon Sage Close Buying holiday lights for your home is an investment, so don’t go with lights that only offer one color choice. The best smart holiday lights can be changed to a wide array of colors and blinking patterns and can also be synced to music.
 You can control them using an app or voice commands using Alexa, Google Assistant, or IFTTT devices , and you can even put these types of lights on a schedule.
Love the idea of keeping your tree up year-round? With smart lights, you can change the light colors to fit the upcoming holiday or season. After the holidays, you could change your lights to pink and red for Valentine’s Day; pastel colors for Easter; red, white, and blue for Independence Day; orange and purple for Halloween … you get the idea.
Here are our picks for the best holiday smart lights on the market.
Twinkly Twinkly Smart Decorations Custom LED String Lights Best pick Loads of effects Usable indoors and outdoors Linkable with up to 10 devices Some connectivity challenges Twinkly’s lights are on their second generation and have a lot of great features. The lights have an almost endless combination of effects, animations, and color ranges to give you a fully customizable experience. Twinkly smart lights also have a built-in microphone, so they can sense music and sync with the beat.
Since the Twinkly Smart Decorations Custom LED String Lights are rated for indoor and outdoor use, you can do one of those snazzy musical light show extravaganzas that’s popular on YouTube. Setup is easy, too. They connect using Bluetooth, and from there, you can control the lights with the app or any Alexa-enabled device. Through Alexa, you can turn the lights on or off, set the brightness, or change colors. If you want a super easy setup, you can also get Christmas trees pre-lit with Twinkly lights.
ILC ILC LED Smart Floodlights Quick installation Creates mesh Bluetooth network Bright Easy setup Lack long-term durability If you want to set the mood outside but you don’t want to string hundreds of lights, there is a fast alternative. Festive floodlights make it look like you went through some effort but with just a few minutes of work.
One of the best options are the ILC Floodlights. Put them on the ground, plug them in, and then project festive colored lights on the outside of your home. You can control the lights using an app, and they feature music-syncing abilities and a wide range of colors.
The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 Philips. / Philips Philips Hue White and Color Ambiance Outdoor Lightstrip Best year-round 16 million colors with adjustable output to 900 lumens Weatherproof operation in all conditions Freestanding or screw-clip mounting options Simple installation with extension kit available for longer runs Support for Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant Strips can’t be cut to size Drab silicone cladding While the Philips Hue White and Color Ambiance Outdoor Lightstrip isn’t specifically for the holidays, this list wouldn’t be complete without it. The Hue Lightstrip is the perfect choice if you want lights that can take you from Christmas, to spring parties, summer cookouts, and roasting marshmallows on the deck in the fall.
Durable and meant for year-round outdoor use, these Philips lights feature 16 million colors and “all shades” of white light. Plus, they are compatible with Alexa devices, Google Assistant, and HomeKit. You can also use the Philips Hue app to control them if you connect the lights with the Hue Bridge.
Govee Permanent Outdoor Lights Best outdoor lights Music sync Compatible with voice assistants High saturation Tough installation For the truly festive, Govee has a new batch of lights that you install directly into the exterior of your house. With a little bit of elbow grease, you can have seasonal colors washing over your home with minimal profile on the fixtures themselves. These lights are perfect for those who want to go all-in with exterior smart lighting. Weatherproofing ensures these can last for the long haul, rain or shine. Govee rates these lights at up to 50,000 hours of runtime in temperatures from -4°F to 140°F.
Govee has a strong reputation in smart lighting for high brightness and saturation, a robust app for programming color schemes, and all the important connections to voice assistants. Music sync helps tie in with whatever festive tunes you have playing outside for a full multimedia experience.
Nanoleaf Nanoleaf Matter Smart Holiday String Lights Access to more than 16 million colors 250 addressable LED lights Holiday-themed Scenes Expensive Featuring 250 addressable LEDs and clocking in at 20 meters in length, these Nanoleaf lights are great for trees, bannisters, or anywhere else inside (or outside) your home. They also boast Matter support – making it easy to sync them with the rest of your smart gadgets.
Using the Nanoleaf smartphone app, you'll have access to more than 16 million colors, holiday-themed Scenes, and the option to get your lights dancing to the beat of nearby music. They can also be controlled via Wi-Fi or Bluetooth, making them ideal for all sorts of setups.
The Nanoleaf Matter Smart Holiday String Lights are a bit expensive at $120, but there's no doubt they bring a festive flair to every room. And since they're IP44 rated, they can withstand inclement weather and can be installed outdoors if preferred. If you're looking for a versatile set of string lights, the latest product from Nanoleaf is a solid option.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best video doorbells for 2023 Best Buy shoppers love this air fryer, and it’s discounted to $50 Dyson’s HP07 air purifier, heater and fan is $200 off at Best Buy Buying Guides Best Products Buying Guides Smart Lights Smart Home Best Buy has one of the best security camera deals at the moment as part of its early Black Friday deals. You can currently buy the Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera Security Bundle for $280 saving you a huge $320 off the regular price of $600. A fantastic deal for anyone keen to secure their home better, the whole kit is simple to install. Here's what you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera Security Bundle The Arlo Pro 4 tops our look at the best home security cameras so you're onto a good thing here. By buying this bundle, you don't just get one Arlo Pro 4. Instead, you get three of the cameras along with four rechargeable batteries, a dual battery charging station, and three anti-theft mounts.
Smart Home Smart displays sit at the very center of most smart homes. With the ability to sync with other gadgets to issue commands, give you daily updates, or serve as a second screen to binge your favorite shows, smart displays are remarkably versatile devices.
The smart display market is more saturated today than ever before, with products from Amazon, Google, Facebook, and more vying for your attention. Google has even revealed that the upcoming Pixel Tablet will double as a smart display, and Apple might be throwing its hat into the ring sooner than expected.
Smart Home Indoor security cameras have a host of uses around a home or business. They can watch for intruders, keep an eye on pets, serve as baby monitors, help guide guests, and generally be on the lookout for anything unusual. If you’re interested in an indoor cam that can do it all, these are the top smart options from the best brands on the market! Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
