Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni review: bringing the heat By Jon Bitner Close $1,099.00 Sleek design Powerful mopping pads Enough suction for thick carpet Mop cleaning with hot water and hot air Not ideal for thick carpets Ecovacs launched the Deebot T10 Omni earlier this year, offering a solid robot vacuum with an impressive docking station, great cleaning prowess, and the ability to double as a robot mop. The smart home gadget wasn’t perfect, but Ecovacs seems to have fixed every complaint about the T10 with its latest robot vacuum — the Deebot T20 Omni.
Straightforward setup Heaps of features Incredible performance across all types of floors Verdict With the ability to mop and vacuum in a single run, the T20 Omni wants to become the one-stop shop for all your floor-cleaning needs. Beyond cleaning your home, it can also clean itself, thanks to a docking station that utilizes both hot air and hot water to disinfect its mop after each cleaning cycle. It’s a much more robust product than the older T10 — and it’s an easy recommendation for nearly every type of home.
Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni boasts a new square design and improved vacuuming skills Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni vs. Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni: Is the T20 worth it? Roborock S8 Pro Ultra vs. Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni: which is the better robot vacuum? The price tag is a bit steep — and its mop-lifting skills still aren’t perfect — but there’s a lot to love about the Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni.
Straightforward setup Ecovacs The setup process is one of the most daunting parts of adding a robot vacuum to your home. Cheap vacuums often require you to babysit them as they roam about your home during the mapping process, or they produce maps that aren’t accurate. That’s not the case with the T20 Omni.
Once you snap on a few brushes to the underside of its chassis and fill up its clean water reservoir, you can start the mapping process using either voice commands or a smartphone app. And after a few minutes of roaming your home, you’ll have a shockingly precise floorplan. From there, you can easily set restricted areas or tweak the layout to your preference.
The Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni is practically ready to use right out of the box.
In other words, setting up your Ecovacs T20 Omni is a breeze. The hardest part might just be getting the dock out of its packaging — it’s a pretty bulky unit — but once you’ve placed the dock and vacuum in your home, everything else is as easy as pressing a button.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The water reservoirs and dustbin are also easily accessible, with the water canisters located underneath a hatch on the top of the unit, and the dustbin is tucked away near the bottom. All three are entirely hidden from view. The brushes on the robot are the only thing that truly needs to be installed; everything else comes ready to use right out of the box.
Heaps of features Image used with permission by copyright holder What sets the T20 Omni apart from other premium robot vacuums on the market is its list of features. A robot vacuum that can both mop and vacuum in a single run is nothing new — you can already find that on the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra or Roomba Combo j7+.
 But the T20 Omni takes things to a new level with the introduction of both hot water and hot air mop cleaning cycles.
When the T20 detects that its mop is dirty — or after a standard cleaning cycle — the T20 Omni will head to its dock. Once there, the two mops located on the bottom of the robot will be blasted with hot water to remove any dirt and debris. Then, a hot air cycle will activate to completely dry the mops, preventing the buildup of mildew and bacteria.
The cleaning offered by T20 Omni’s hot water and hot air cycle is superior to most other robot vacuums.
This is a pretty big selling point for the T20, as it prevents you from having to perform any manual cleaning on the mops between cycles. Other products might require you to pull the mopheads off and clean them in your sink, something that’s less than ideal after dropping hundreds of dollars for a robot that “automates” your cleaning.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The cleaning offered by this dual hot water and hot air cycle is superior to many other products. Most robot vacuums that use a cleaning cycle today don’t feature a hot water rinse. The T20 Omni, meanwhile, can heat water to 131 degrees to better clean and disinfect its mops. These cleaning cycles do take a bit of time to complete, however, and your robot will largely be inaccessible while they’re running. But that’s a minor tradeoff to keep your hands clean and away from dirty mops.
For rugs or low-pile carpets, the T20 Omni is perfect.
Along with hot water washing and drying cycles, the T20 Omni can lift its mop 9mm, which is higher than most other robot vacuums. In practice, however, this still isn’t ideal for homes with thick carpets. The mopping pads on the T20 are much larger than those of other products, and the 9mm of clearance isn’t enough to prevent the pads from skimming across the top of extra-plush carpets.
For rugs or low-pile carpets, the T20 Omni is perfect. But if your home is a mixture of high-pile carpet in living spaces and tiles in kitchens or dining spaces, you might want to consider disabling the mopping feature when vacuuming.
Incredible performance across all types of floors Ecovacs As you’d expect, the actual cleaning performance of the Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni is incredible. Its two, counter-rotating mop disks can spin at a rate of 180 rotations per minute to handle even the nastiest of floors, while the 6,000 Pa of suction expertly cleans both tile and carpet.
The T20 also has the added benefit of leaving oddly satisfying tread marks in its wake, making it easy to see where exactly it cleaned. The warm water and air-drying cycles also worked well during testing, with mopping pads that still look new despite several weeks of use.
Best of all, the dustbin that’s built into the docking station is rated to hold debris for up to 60 days, letting you go weeks before diving in for a replacement. When combined with the self-cleaning mop, you’ve got a robot vacuum that’s about as automated as it gets.
Verdict Ecovacs The Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni is a remarkable piece of engineering. Offering powerful cleaning performance and top-of-the-line maintenance features, few robot vacuums can compete with the T20. It’s a bit pricey at $1,099, but that’s relatively affordable when compared to the competition. The Roborock S8 Pro Ultra offers many of the same features but starts at $1,600, and the Roomba Combo j7+ is $1,000 (though it lacks many of the self-cleaning skills of the T20).
The only reason to give pause to the T20 is if your home has high-pile carpets. Otherwise, it passes all tests with flying colors.
Ecovacs is also running a launch discount that slashes the price by $100 through June 30, making it more enticing than usual. But even at full price, the Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni is a stellar robot vacuum that deserves a spot in your home.
Editors' Recommendations Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni vs. iRobot Roomba Combo j9+: Which premium robot vacuum is best? Dyson 360 Vis Nav vs. Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni: which is the better robot vacuum? Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni brings hot water washin, mop-lifting skills to Deebot lineup Ecovacs introduces three new robot vacuums for homes of all sizes Tackle dirt and dust with DEEBOT T10 OMNI’s state-of-the-art A.I. technology Appliances Product Reviews Robot Vacuums Vacuum Reviews Smart Home Ecovacs, a prominent name in the world of home service robots, is expanding its lineup with a robotic lawnmower and commercial floor cleaning robot. The two products are expected to arrive in China next year, although pricing and North American release dates are yet to be determined.
The robot lawnmower, Goat G1, is arguably the more interesting of the two, as it’s designed for both personal and commercial use. This will be the first robotic lawnmower from Ecovacs, although it builds on existing technology to offer a lawn-mowing experience that works much like a robot vacuum. After mapping out your yard with an accompanying smartphone app, the Goat G1 will go about cutting grass with centimeter-level precision, thanks to a 360-degree camera and the ability to scan 25 frames per second to avoid moving obstacles.
Smart Home CES 2022, an annual exposition of all things cutting-edge, brought big breakthroughs in many sectors of residential living -- from developments in pet-monitoring devices to monolithic, multipoint routers.
Don't forget robot vacuums. Those much-loved sentient dust-busters that keep our domiciles near-spotless. Two robot vacuum companies that flexed hard at CES 2022 were Roborock and Ecovacs, the former with the all-new S7 MaxV Ultra and the latter with the Deebot X1 Omni.
Smart Home Robot vacuums are a big investment. Even the basic models can ring in at a few hundred dollars each, and if you want ones with the newest and most useful bells and whistles — both vacuuming and mopping, automatic emptying, auto cleaning, object recognition and avoidance — you can expect to pay $1,000 or more. So when it comes to purchasing a robot vacuum, buyers need to do their homework to make sure they are worth the money.
Several manufacturers announced new robot vacuums and mops as part of CES 2022, the global consumer tech show held each year in Las Vegas. Many of them have a few newer technologies and improvements, including: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
