Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Is an Ecobee Smart Security subscription worth it? By Jon Bitner Close Aside from offering some of the best smart thermostats on the market, Ecobee is also a provider of smart home security systems. And like most home security systems, you’ll need a monthly membership to make the most out of your gadgets. But is an Ecobee Smart Security subscription worth it? Here’s a look at the two different plans available to customers, along with which homes will benefit from each plan.
What is Ecobee Smart Security Standard? What is Ecobee Smart Security Complete? Should I get an Ecobee Smart Security membership? What is Ecobee Smart Security Standard? Ecobee Ecobee Smart Security Standard costs $5 per month or $50 per year. It doesn’t offer professional monitoring but does save videos for one camera for up to 30 days. It also benefits from arm and disarm assistance, smart motion and entry alerts, smoke alarm detection, freeze detection, and the ability to control the system from your smartphone app.
This is an ideal subscription for small households with a single camera. If you have more cameras (or want professional monitoring), you’ll need to step up to the Complete Plan.
Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments The best video doorbells for 2023 What is Ecobee Smart Security Complete? Ecobee The Ecobee Smart Security Complete costs $10 per month or $90 per year. It’s the most advanced plan offered by Ecobee, offering everything found on the Standard Plan, plus the following: 24/7 professional monitoring Data routed directly to 911 Faster emergency response The possibility of saving on your home insurance The ability to save videos for all the cameras in your home for up to 30 days.
This is the recommended plan for homes with multiple cameras or families that want a professionally monitored system. Using Ecobee’s RapidSOS monitoring system, a specialist will call dispatch assistance when it’s required. The system covers more than 94% of the U.S. population, with new emergency centers being added regularly.
Should I get an Ecobee Smart Security membership? Ecobee Yes, if you want to get the most out of your Ecobee Smart Security system, a Smart Security membership is all but required. Thankfully, purchasing most products in the Ecobee catalog will get you a free trial of the service — and you’ll never be forced to sign a contract, allowing you to leave the plan without paying a penalty.
All Ecobee customers should at least pick up the Standard Plan so they can save their recordings. If your home consists of multiple cameras, the Complete Plan is an easy recommendation. The Complete Plan is one of the cheapest ways to get professional monitoring in your home, with many other companies charging upwards of $20 per month for the sought-after feature.
Ecobee recently made a few enhancements to its Smart Security system, including the integration of a keypad into select smart thermostats, allowing you to arm or disarm your system from the unit. Some thermostats also now feature an automatic siren if your system detects an intruder.
These updates coincide with the launch of the Ecobee Smart Doorbell Camera , which also integrates with the Smart Security system. Having a video doorbell in the lineup should only make Ecobee more enticing as a whole-home security option.
Looking for an alternative to Ecobee? Check out Ring , which offers three different monthly subscription plans, one of which, Ring Protect Pro, comes with professional monitoring and access to the useful Alexa Guard Plus feature. It’s a bit more expensive than Ecobee Complete at $20 per month, but it’s a great alternative if your home is already equipped with a Ring Video Doorbell.
For other options, be sure to check out our roundup of the best DIY home security systems.
 Along with Ring, this includes picks from ADT and SimpliSafe.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart home devices for 2023 Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 Smart Home Update (November 7, 2023): Emporia has resolved the issue with its Emporia Smart Plugs and they're once again available for sale. Keep in mind the previous recall still applies, and if you've purchased products between the dates listed below, you should look into returning your smart plugs.
Original story: If you purchased an Emporia Smart Plug between July 1, 2022, and August 1, 2023, there’s a good chance your product is defective. The company has issued a voluntary recall of smart plugs purchased from Amazon and the Emporia website during that period, as they may have a mechanical issue making them “potentially unsafe.” Smart Home Offering impressive video capture, easy installation processes, and an intuitive smartphone app, Arlo stands out as one of the best manufacturers of security cameras. Its catalog has grown a bit larger recently with the launch of its Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen -- but how does this new arrival stack up to the iconic Arlo Pro 4? Here's a look at the Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen and Arlo Pro 4 to help you determine which is best for your security system.
Pricing and monthly fees Smart Home The refreshed Apple HomePod is one of the best smart speakers on the market. It offers booming sound, a great design, and access to the Siri voice assistant. It also costs quite a bit of cash -- making it one of the most expensive smart speakers. On the other side of the pricing spectrum is the Echo Pop, which is remarkably cheap and gives you access to the Alexa voice assistant.
But is the HomePod (Gen 2) worth the added cost? Or are you better off opting for the affordable Echo Pop? Here's a closer look at the two smart speakers to help you figure out which is best for your needs.
Pricing and design Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
