Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Roborock S7 Max Ultra review: what’s in a name? By Jon Bitner Close $1,299.00 Ability to mop and vacuum in a single run Easy installation and maintenance Great vacuuming performance Powerful smartphone app Expensive Roborock is among the most popular manufacturers of robot vacuums. The company has been churning out well-reviewed models for years — and that trend continues with the S7 Max Ultra.
 Not to be confused with the older S7 MaxV Ultra , the new S7 Max Ultra is one of the best robot vacuums in the Roborock catalog.
Powered by your phone Cleans your floors (then cleans itself) What’s the difference? Verdict It makes a few concessions compared to the flagship S8 Pro Ultra , but there’s no denying the appeal of this powerful new smart home gadget. With the ability to mop, vacuum, and then clean itself at its charging station, it offers a fully automated cleaning experience that gives you back several hours of your day.
SwitchBot S10 robot vacuum connects to your plumbing for fully automated mopping Roborock S8 Pro Ultra vs. Roborock S7 Max Ultra: Which is the better robot vacuum? Roborock S8 Pro Ultra vs. Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni: which is the better robot vacuum? Powered by your phone Image used with permission by copyright holder After opening up the gigantic box and finding a suitable spot for the charging dock, you’re practically done with setting up the S7 Max Ultra. The final step is to map your home by syncing the vacuum to your smartphone , which is where you’ll find tons of unique ways to control the robot. From programming a weekly cleaning schedule and checking in on its current cleaning status to adjusting power levels or setting restricted areas, everything you need is found in the app.
Despite all these features, navigating them all is surprisingly easy. Roborock designed the app to be highly intuitive — and after a brief tutorial, you’ll know exactly where to look for whatever task you’re trying to carry out. In fact, most features can be found directly on the main menu after swiping up on your screen, making it easy to activate the S7 Max Ultra’s most-used features.
Cleans your floors (then cleans itself) Image used with permission by copyright holder The most compelling reason to pick up the S7 Max Ultra is its fully automated cleaning cycles. It’s designed to operate as both a mop and vacuum in a single run, thanks to a mop that can lift off the ground when traveling on carpet. Like most other robot vacuums, this works well enough — though thick carpets will still get grazed by the lifted mop.
Its cleaning skills are impressive, however, with a mop that oscillates at a rapid rate to remove stains, spills, or other debris from your floors. Water will work perfectly fine, but for additional firepower, you can add the Roborock Floor Cleaning Solution to the mix. Tile, laminate, hardwood, and many other floor types are compatible with the S7 — it can even recognize the direction of seams in hardwood, preventing accidental scratches and limiting the amount of stress it adds to your floors.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Vacuuming is arguably even more efficient than mopping, thanks to 5,500 Pa of suction. During testing, this was more than enough to suck out pet fur from incredibly thick carpet, as well as small rocks, bits of dirt, and anything else your pets (or you) might track inside after a hike. And thanks to precise lidar navigation, the S7 Max Ultra never missed a spot in the house and expertly maneuvered around all obstacles in its way.
Once it’s done cleaning your floors, the robot heads back to its base to clean itself. This includes removing all debris from its dustbin (the reservoir in the base can go up to seven weeks before needing to be replaced), washing the mop, then drying the mop with warm air to prevent odors from developing. The dock can also clean itself, ensuring any gunk that falls off the mop is quickly washed away.
What’s the difference? Image used with permission by copyright holder While the Roborock S7 Max Ultra would make a powerful addition to most smart homes, it’s a bit confusing as to why this product even exists. The S8 Pro Ultra was launched earlier this year, and it offers nearly all the same features (plus the ability to raise its brush while mopping and additional suction). There’s also the S7 MaxV Ultra from 2022 — which bears a striking resemblance to the S7 Max Ultra in both its physical appearance and name.
So how exactly does the S7 Max Ultra fit into this lineup? Considering it is both cheaper and more powerful than the S7 MaxV Ultra, it’s clearly the better robot of the two. But compared to the S8 Pro Ultra, there isn’t a whole lot that’s different. The S8 looks a bit nicer and comes with a few additional features, but its price tag of $1,600 makes it significantly more expensive than the $1,300 S7 Max Ultra.
Both are great products, but many consumers will find it perplexing that two robot vacuums with such similar features launched just months apart from each other. It’s even more bizarre when you consider the S8 launched before the S7.
It would have been great if the S7 Max Ultra could have done something more to differentiate itself from the flagship S8 Pro Ultra — although maybe the lower price tag is enough for it to find a niche in the market.
Verdict Image used with permission by copyright holder With the ability to clean your floors and then clean itself, the Roborock S7 Max Ultra is an easy product to recommend. It’s not cheap, but it falls in line with other premium robot vacuums on the market such as the Roomba Combo j7+ and Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni.
Everything about the S7 Max Ultra works exactly as you’d expect, though the mop-lifting feature isn’t robust enough for thick carpets (it can only retract 5mm, which is only suitable for rugs or low-pile carpets).
There are plenty of other great options on the market today — be sure to check our list of the best robot vacuums of 2023 — but there’s no doubt that the S7 Max Ultra deserves careful consideration.
Editors' Recommendations Roborock is launching two affordable robot vacuums in October Eufy’s new X9 Pro Robovac offers automated mopping and vacuuming for less than $1,000 New Roborock S7 Max Ultra boasts maintenance-free dock, impressive mopping skills Roborock S8 lineup brings next-gen cleaning skills to CES 2023 The j7+ is iRobot’s first two-in-one vacuum and mop combo Appliances Product Reviews Robot Vacuums Vacuum Reviews Smart Home CES 2022, an annual exposition of all things cutting-edge, brought big breakthroughs in many sectors of residential living -- from developments in pet-monitoring devices to monolithic, multipoint routers.
Don't forget robot vacuums. Those much-loved sentient dust-busters that keep our domiciles near-spotless. Two robot vacuum companies that flexed hard at CES 2022 were Roborock and Ecovacs, the former with the all-new S7 MaxV Ultra and the latter with the Deebot X1 Omni.
Smart Home The new Roborock S7 robot vacuum offers new, powerful features that make it stand out from the rest of the Roborock lineup and seal its position as the brand's top-of-the-line model just in time for CES 2021. Following the success of its S6 MaxV last year, the Roborock S7 is unique because it leverages one of the fastest sonic mops on the market, which means it scrubs anywhere from 1,650 times per minute all the way to 3,000 times per minute.
This gives it the ability to disintegrate dirt and dried-on grime to provide a more thorough clean than any other mop on the market. It combines this with an intelligent lift technology powered through VibraRise that ensures the mop deactivates and lifts itself out of the way when carpets are detected.
Smart Home The world of robot vacuums just got a little more interesting. Roborock introduced a new addition to its S-Series lineup of vacuums, the Roborock S6 MaxV. This is the first vacuum in the series to feature a stereo camera that enables advanced obstacle avoidance technology called ReactiveAI. To do that, the Roborock S6 MaxV carries a Qualcomm APQ8053 processor chip enabling the onboard artificial intelligence. to recognize and avoid obstacles that might otherwise trap the robot.
According to Roborock CEO Richard Cheng, “The powerful image processing technology behind it has led us to work with Qualcomm Technologies for the first time, a journey we are delighted to begin as we continue to imagine the next generation of robotic vacuums to navigate today’s world.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
