Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Wyze Video Doorbell v2 vs. Wyze Video Doorbell Pro By Jon Bitner Close Wyze creates a bunch of video doorbells , but few are as popular as the Wyze Video Doorbell v2 and Wyze Video Doorbell Pro. Both offer many of the same features — though their price tags and designs couldn’t be further apart. But which one is best for your front door? The expensive Wyze Video Doorbell Pro, or the budget-friendly Wyze Video Doorbell v2? Here’s a look at both to help you decide.
Price and subscriptions Design Installation Features and specs Verdict Price and subscriptions Wyze The Wyze Video Doorbell v2 costs $40, while the Wyze Video Doorbell Pro costs $94. Both can be used without a monthly subscription, though you won’t have access to premium features such as cloud video recording and smart detection. A Cam Plus membership is highly recommended, and since it costs just $3 per month, it’s not a steep investment.
Note that the Wyze Video Doorbell Pro also comes with a Wyze Chime Pro that doubles as a Wi-Fi extender.
Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles The best video doorbells for 2023 Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? Design Wyze Both products are well-designed and offer a premium look. The more affordable Wyze Video Doorbell v2 is newer than the Wyze Video Doorbell Pro, offering a streamlined appearance with an all-black design. Its camera is located at the top of the device, with the doorbell button at the bottom. Its body is composed of polycarbonate and the lens is crafted from resin.
The Wyze Video Doorbell Pro incorporates glass into its lens, though its body is composed of the same polycarbonate as its cheaper sibling. Its design looks radically different, however, as it uses both black and white in its color palette — the upper portion that houses the camera is black, while the lower portion with the doorbell button is white.
Installation Wyze Wyze says the Video Doorbell Pro can be installed in 30 seconds. That might be pushing it a little, but there’s no denying its installation process is about as streamlined as it gets. The unit is powered by batteries (so you don’t have to mess with any wires) and its mounting bracket includes a 3M adhesive strip (so you don’t have to mess with any power tools).
The Wyze Video Doorbell v2 requires a wired installation, though it offers step-by-step instructions so most homeowners shouldn’t have a problem getting it up and running. It also comes with a chime controller so your existing chime is likely to work with the doorbell without needing an upgrade.
There’s no denying that the Wyze Video Doorbell Pro is easier to install than the Wyze Video Doorbell v2, but if you have a bit of technical know-how, the cheaper product shouldn’t give you much trouble.
Features and specs Image used with permission by copyright holder Despite its lower price tag, the Wyze Video Doorbell v2 is packed with features. This includes 2K video capture, two-way audio, and color night vision. Its biggest selling point is its local microSD storage, which lets you save clips directly to your device instead of uploading them to the cloud. The camera features a 166.8-degree field-of-view (135-degree horizontal, 103-degree vertical), which is a better viewing angle than many other video doorbells.
It’s a similar story for the premium Wyze Video Doorbell Pro. It offers FHD video capture (1440 x 1440), two-way audio, and a wide field of view (150 degrees for both horizontal and vertical). However, it’s missing a few key features, such as a microSD card slot and color night vision.
Verdict Despite its higher price tag, the Wyze Video Doorbell Pro doesn’t offer much more than the Wyze Video Doorbell v2. The main reason to opt for it is if you want a hassle-free installation process. The ability to get it up by your door in a matter of seconds is a huge selling point, and the included Wyze Chime Pro is a great bonus.
However, the newer (and cheaper) Wyze Video Doorbell v2 is arguably a better video doorbell. Not only does it offer color night vision, but its local storage capabilities are a massive win. A microSD card slot is rarely seen on video doorbells — regardless of price.
At the end of the day, it’s hard to go wrong with either product. Consider picking up the Wyze Video Doorbell Pro if you’re worried about a difficult installation process, and pick up the Wyze Video Doorbell v2 if you’re on a budget or like its local storage skills. Beyond that, much is shared between the two devices.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell: Which is best? Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Arlo Essential Video Doorbell just had its price slashed from $150 to $100 Home Security Versus Video Doorbells Smart Home Wyze is a popular destination for smart home shoppers seeking premium features on a budget, and the new Wyze Video Doorbell v2 might be its most enticing product yet. Not only does it capture 2K footage and offer free 12-second video recording, but it also features a microSD card slot for local storage -- all for just $40.
That's an impressive list considering its low price. The microSD card slot is the big selling point, as few products in this price range offer the coveted feature. Having a video doorbell with an onboard microSD slot means you can record continuous footage both day and night. When the sun goes down, it also offers color night vision for improved clarity.
Smart Home Ring video doorbells are among the most popular of 2023, and to celebrate the spooky season, the company has launched three new Quick Replies for its catalog. All three are Halloween-inspired, making them a great way to get your smart home ready for trick-or-treaters.
Available on almost all Ring video doorbells (minus the 1st Generation), users will now find the Werewolf Howl, Children Trick or Treating, and Witch Fire Burn and Cauldron Bubble Quick Replies. These tunes will play for your visitors after they've pressed your doorbell button, which is the perfect way to give your guests a spooky welcome.
Smart Home Ecobee, known for its lineup of popular smart thermostats, is officially jumping into the world of video doorbells with the aptly named Smart Doorbell Camera. Featuring an impressive 175-degree vertical field of view, premium materials, and the ability to sync with the rest of the Ecobee home security catalog, it's a well-equipped device that's taking aim at big names such as Ring and Arlo.
The big selling point of the Ecobee Smart Doorbell Camera is its 175-degree field of view, which allows it to capture packages left at your doorstep without cutting off your view of tall guests ringing your doorbell. It also boasts enhanced ability in lowlight situations and records in 1080p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
