Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Go anywhere with no fuss on the all-purpose Himiway Cruiser By Bruce Brown Close $1,700.00 Versatile all-purpose design One-size fits most riders Fat tires boost comfort Fenders, rear rack included Quick-release front wheel Mechanical disc brakes, not hydraulic Messy front cable cluster Competent, but not exciting Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Are you looking for an e-bike that does a little bit of everything? The Himiway Cruiser isn’t the lightest, fastest, or cheapest e-bike you can buy today — and it’s not supposed to be. However, this versatile fat tire e-bike will take you where you want to go in relative comfort, and its often-discounted $1,700 price provides significant value without draining your bank account.
All-purpose by design Power, speed, and range Fully equipped with the right stuff Thoughtful design encourages frequent use A hearty recommendation Built like a tank, but in a good way, the Himiway Cruiser can serve as a stalwart e-bike for commuting ,as well as an everyday ride for running errands, riding with friends, and just having fun.
If you revel in charging jumps on rock-strewn mountain trails or you need a compact, lightweight e-bike to transport easily, Himiway and other e-bike brands have better choices. However, if you want the highest use value from an all-purpose e-bike investment, theHimiway Cruiser’s return on investment can’t be beaten.
All-purpose by design Bruce Brown/Digital Trends The Himiway Cruiser rides on 4-inch wide by 26-inch diameter, puncture-resistant Kenda fat tires with moderately knobby tread. E-bike manufacturers don’t just build fat tire bikes because they look cool; the tires aid both ride stability and rider comfort.
They may look fairly smooth compared to the aggressively knobbed rubber on the Super73-S Adventure Series e-bike, but the Himiway Cruiser’s wide tires help give the e-bike grip on forest paths, sand, gravel, stones, and even snow. You won’t want to take the Himiway too deep in the woods, but the tires also help provide a smooth ride on paved streets.
The Himiway Cruiser has a 25 mph top speed and a rated range of 35 to 60 miles per charge.
You can adjust the Himiway Cruiser’s front suspension fork preload level to your preference depending on how much travel you prefer when you hit bumps, or lock out the front suspension if you want to go faster at the cost of comfort. A Velo soft saddle also helps a bit when the road gets rough, but the fat tires contribute more to rider comfort than the front fork or the saddle.
Fat tires are also tall, relative to thinner e-bike tires, so you can cushion the ride by deflating the tires a bit from their maximum level. The Kendas on this e-bike can handle from 5 pounds per square inch (psi) to 30 psi. I found that 25 psi delivered a comfortable ride without compromising stability and handling, especially on hard surfaces.
Power, speed, and range Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Himiway matches a 750-watt brushless rear-hub electric motor with a 48-volt, 17.5Ah Samsung/LG lithium ion battery. Like many e-bikes, the Cruiser comes configured as a Class II e-bike, which limits the maximum speed to 20 miles per hour, but you can unlock 25 mph using the app. Range is rated between 35 and 60 miles per charge, and charging takes six to seven hours.
The Cruiser’s motor and battery power provide up to 80 Newton-meters (59 pound-feet) of torque for extra takeoff power in traffic and to make it up long grades. We have a lengthy, steep driveway that can stall underpowered e-bikes and e-scooters, but it only slowed the Himiway Cruiser a bit.
The Himiway Cruiser is an everyday-carry pocketknife of e-bikes. You’ll be surprised at how often you’ll ride it.
The Cruiser has a Shimano 7-speed gear shift system, and five pedal-assistance levels to pick your challenge, but you likely won’t want to pedal this beast far without battery assistance. For a challenging upper body workout, just try lifting the e-bike a few times: On my scale, it weighed in at 74.6 pounds.
Himiway’s range estimate of 35 to 60 miles is higher than that of many other fat tire e-bikes. The higher number is based on moderate speed using pedal assistance with lots of rider pedaling, and the lower number assumes heavy use of the Cruiser’s half-grip twist throttle. Range always varies based on innumerable factors from rider weight to wind, so it’s prudent to experiment with range before heading out on any trip longer than about 20 miles.
Fully equipped with the right stuff Assembling an e-bike isn’t always simple, so I was pleased to find a helpful manual that clearly depicted the e-bike’s parts and pieces. There’s also an excellent video on the Himiway website that demonstrates assembly.
I particularly appreciated the quick-release hub, which makes it relatively easy to install or remove the front wheel. Just flip the bike upside down on a protected surface (like a blanket), drop the wheel in place, and tighten with your hands. Most e-bikes use lug nuts, which require wrenches.
Unlike many competitors, Himiway includes fenders and a rear rack standard. You have to attach them, but it’s not difficult.
Thoughtful design encourages frequent use Himiway offers the Cruiser in two frame styles for the same $1,700 price: regular, and step-through, which come in black and white, respectively. I tested the regular tube style.
The Cruiser has a 28-inch minimum seat height that can accommodate riders from 5-feet, 3 inches to 6 feet, 5 inches tall. I’m 5 feet, 8 inches tall, 150 pounds, and found it easy to get on and off the Cruiser. Admittedly it would be a bit of a challenge if I was carrying cargo on the rear rack. The total payload of 350 pounds is significantly greater than many other e-bikes.
I like extra available space on the handlebars of my bikes so I can add mirrors and a smartphone holder, so I especially appreciated the Himiway’s relatively uncrowded, slightly curved handlebars. In the center, a backlit LCD display displays battery level, pedal assistance level, miles traveled, current and average speed, and real-time motor power expressed in watts. Leather-feel handgrips rest within easy reach of the mechanical disc brake levers. On the left, you get a small bell beside the five-button pedal-assistance level controller, and on the right are the half-twist throttle and the Shimano gear shifter.
I do have a couple of moderate gripes. Eight separate cables that gather on the front side of the handlebars could benefit from a more complete cable-wrapper to minimize clutter and prevent snags. Hydraulic disc brakes would also be preferable to the Himiway Cruiser’s mechanical brakes because hydraulics require less pull on the levers, but the 180mm discs are the right size for this bike’s weight and power.
A hearty recommendation Bruce Brown/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Himiway Cruiser is like an everyday pocketknife, in that you’ll be surprised at how often you’ll ride it. I enjoyed my time riding the Himiway Cruiser, and I heartily recommend it. It’s solidly built with commendable components, and Himiway backs the Cruiser with a two-year warranty and a 15-day return policy. If you’re looking for an easy to buy and ride e-bike for exercise, commuting, errands, and fun rides with friends, the Cruiser is a fine choice. With the proper accessories, it could be your sole form of urban transport — as long as you didn’t need to carry it up and down stairs.
Smart Home e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
