Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? That’s an e-bike? Velotric’s stealthy T1 is a city bike for skeptics By Bruce Brown Close $1,800.00 Stealthy look, with few visible cables Noiseless electric motor High-end components Smart security features Easy to pedal with no power Light enough to carry Rear light uses a separate battery No brake light Fenders optional, not standard If you are a cyclist who has resisted the impulse to buy an e-bike, the Velotric T1 e-bike may shift your thinking. Perhaps you haven’t seen the need for an e-bike, you’re not a fan of the fat tire look of many e-bikes, or you consider yourself a cycling purist. The T1 defines a new paradigm — a smart, unobtrusive e-bike that’s easy to ride with or without power assistance. From a practical perspective, Velotric’s urban e-bike can help maximize your use of two-wheeled transport and limit dependence on cars or public transportation.
Smooth, light, quiet High-quality components and a smart app Learning curve? Nope, just get on and ride One of a kind The Velotric T1 rides outside the usual lanes of e-bike design. The T1 doesn’t look, sound, or even feel like an e-bike. Also, because you can comfortably ride the T1 as a conventional bicycle without power assistance, you can kiss goodbye the usual concerns about e-bike range anxiety.
Bosch Kiox and SmartphoneHub hands-on: The sleek displays e-bikes deserve Electric Citi Bikes is returning to New York City with a price shake-up Vintage Electric honors Shelby with limited-edition e-bike for Cobra fans Smooth, light, quiet As approachable as it is, the Velotric T1 isn’t an e-bike for all purposes. Unlike the versatile Rad Power Bikes RadRunner 3 Plus utility e-bike, the T1 isn’t designed for weekly grocery runs or daycare drop-offs. The T1 is also the wrong choice for long-distance touring, mountain trail riding, or high-speed cycling on-road or off-road. The Velotric T1 excels most as an exercise bicycle that’s practical for traveling the streets where you live. Whether you live in an urban center, a village, or suburbia, Velotric’s T1 can serve as adaptable and convenient transportation.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends You may not have considered e-bikes for commuting , but you can certainly use the T1 for daily transport. Just add a pair of optional fenders to avoid road splatter on your clothes, and snap a set of panniers to the standard lugs on the front forks. With those additions, the Velotric T1 transforms into a fine machine to combine exercise with your daily commute — and you don’t have to arrive sweaty.
The Velotric T1 is available in two sizes: medium and large. My medium-sized test bike weighed a mere 38 pounds, making it a lightweight compared to the typical e-bikes that tip scales at closer to 60 or 80 pounds. Hoisting it into a midsized SUV was significantly easier than with the 68-pound Engwe EP2-Pro folding e-bike.
 Sure, the non-folding T1 could be a bit tight in an elevator, but at this weight, slinging it over your shoulder and carrying it up stairs is an option.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends One of the Velotric T1’s best features is easy to miss in photos. Take a close look. Do you see cables? E-bikes obviously require wires in addition to the regular bicycle cables for shifters, brakes, and lights, yet the Velotric looks even cleaner than most conventional bikes. That’s because Velotric minimizes clutter by routing all cables through the frame. Only at the base of the handlebars will you see short cables to controls mounted near the grips. This not only looks nice, but it gives you one less thing to get snagged when navigating the T1 through tight spaces.
Velotric also cuts sound with this e-bike. The proprietary Velopower E35+ drive train pairs a 350-watt continuous-power electric hub motor (600 watts peak power) with a pedal torque sensor. On my first test ride after the fast and easy assembly process, the motor was so quiet I was sure I missed connecting a power cable. I hadn’t.
Granted, I was going slow. But in subsequent rides at the fastest speed I could muster, the bike was still silent. Most e-bike motors produce a medium-pitch zinging noise under power. Some performance e-bikes, such as the Ariel Rider Grizzly with steel-geared 1,000-watt hub motors front and rear, make quite a racket. If you ride the T1 with a group of bicycle riders, there will be no telltale zinging sound.
High-quality components and a smart app Velotric equips the T1 with high-quality components for everything from performance to safety. Beyond the whisper-quiet hub motor, you get torque sensors at the pedals, rather than less expensive cadence sensors. These respond to rider pedal pressure instead of speed, so can apply full power even from a dead stop.
Other notable T1 components include a Shimano rear derailleur, an 8-speed gear cassette, and a shift lever and Tektro hydraulic disc brakes with 160mm rotors front and rear.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends The Velotric T1 control panel is a smooth, smart interface that works with both a remote on the handlebar and a mobile app. A built-in mount makes it easy to attach your phone to the stem. Once you pair the T1 with your phone via Bluetooth, you’ll train the e-bike’s frame-mounted oval sensor to recognize your fingerprint with eight successful fingerprint image captures at different angles.
After setup, you can unlock the controls with your finger, or set it to simply auto-unlock when your phone connects and lock when you walk away. Note that the bike still rolls while the controls are locked, so it’s not a substitute for a physical lock. But if thieves strike, you’ll get a theft alert on your phone, be able to track them via the bike’s integrated GPS, and they won’t have electric assist.
I’ll freely confess I’m not an avid bicycle rider, but I was surprised how easily the Velotric T1 won me over.
The app also lets you adjust convenience settings, like having the headlights automatically come on at dark, and performance settings, like switching between riding modes (city offers the best efficiency, Adventure is for gravel and dirt roads, and Max cranks everything to, well, the max). The T1 comes limited to 20 mph by default, but you can unlock 25 mph by pressing the headlight button for 20 seconds.
Within any riding mode, you can still manually dial the assist level up and down through five different levels using the plus and minus buttons on the handlebars. A light halo around the fingerprint sensor changes colors to indicate which level you’re in, and four white LEDs below it show you your battery status.
According to Velotric, the T1 has a maximum range of 70 miles with a fully charged battery. We don’t test riding range because of the significant variables involved including speed, rider weight, and much more, but to get anything close to the maximum stated range, you’ll want to stay in the lowest pedal assistance mode and go easy on pedaling force.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends My only real quibbles with the Velotric T1’s components are with rear lighting. A red light to mount on the seat post comes with the bike, but it’s powered by a separate battery, not wired to the main battery, and must be turned each time you use the bike. And there is no brake light, which seems like a major omission for an urban bike. Also, fenders are optional, not standard, which limits commuting potential in stock form.
Learning curve? Nope, just get on and ride The T1 e-bike doesn’t demand noticeable accommodations to ride, especially compared to speedy moped-style e-bikes such as the Super73-S Adventure Series or the Ariel Rider Grizzly.
 Those e-bikes are a ton of fun to ride if you are looking for power and speed, but before you twist the throttle on the Ariel or the Super73, you’d better be ready to hold on tight.
The Velotric T1’s battery assistance power is always on standby with extra oomph for push-offs, temporary power on long inclines, or stored energy reserves to travel further, but the power delivery is gradual and smooth. If you’re not going to use battery assistance, you can just hop on and ride.
Velotric’s T1 provides adaptable convenient transportation without the awkward weight of most e-bikes.
I kept the T1 in max mode and on the Turbo pedal assistance level during most of my testing. With those settings, there was plenty of power when I pressed hard on the pedals. The emphasis with the Velotric T1 is on smooth power delivery rather than blasting around as fast as you can go. There is no throttle on the T1, you can only summon power assistance by pedaling.
I found it easy to maintain 18 to 20 mph on paved roads. The bike has no suspension, but I found the ride was more comfortable than I expected riding over speed bumps, pavement cracks, and minor road irregularities. I never had to make an emergency stop, but I tested the brakes from full speed several times and I was impressed by the braking power. The bike halted quickly and was easy to control.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends I’ll freely confess I’m not an avid bicycle rider. I’d much rather ride a motorcycle, a powerful e-bike, or an e-scooter. Therefore, I was surprised at how easily the Velotric T1 won me over. I enjoyed riding it with and without battery power. I can easily see how bicycle-centric riders could take to the T1 with no risk of betraying their primary allegiance to leg-powered two-wheelers.
One of a kind If you like bicycle riding for fitness, a casual jaunt, or getting around a city or town, and especially if you’re not looking for high-speed all-terrain adventures, the Velotric T1 is an excellent choice. You’ll enjoy a high-quality, extremely good-looking utilitarian bicycle that operates smoothly and can silently add power assistance when you want it. The Velotric T1 costs $1,800. If that’s a bit north of your budget, the $1,500 Velotric T1 ST model has the same motor and power delivery system without the T1’s smart features. Velotric backs its e-bikes with a two-year limited warranty, which says a lot about the company’s confidence in the bikes’ quality and durability.
Editors' Recommendations Harley-Davidson rides into the e-bike segment with Serial 1 subbrand Rad Power Bikes’ new e-bike models boost accessibility and visibility Spinciti’s Amsterdam e-bike offers speed and range at an affordable price Juiced Bikes Scorpion, a moped-style e-bike, packs performance, safety, comfort UBCO’s 50-mph Freeride Trail Bike is the rally car of the e-bike world Smart Home e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
