Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features At Amazon’s annual device event, AI was everywhere — and nowhere By Phil Nickinson Close Amazon’s Dave Limp at the 2023 Device and Services event at Amazon headquarters in Arlington, Virginia.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends One of the major narratives going into Amazon’s Device and Services event — something you’d read leading up to the event, and something I even heard as we waited in line to get in — was, of course, artificial intelligence. Would AI make its way into Alexa and Amazon at large? Of course, it would.
 And, of course, it’s been here the whole time. And, of course, it will be here going forward.
At this point, AI is as much a marketing buzzword as it is actually a thing, just like the early days of 5G.
 But when everything is soaked in AI, how do you use it to stand out? The Amazon Echo Hub is almost the whole-home hub I’ve always wanted Wearing Alexa is weird, but Amazon’s new Echo Frames are shockingly comfy Amazon debuts its first Fire TV soundbar and faster Fire TV sticks Have you heard the good word? Mentions of AI saturated nearly everything that Amazon announced this week.
It was in the headline for the press release on all the new Fire TV fare, in the first sentence of the body, and peppered into the subheadings. You had to wait all of two paragraphs before hitting AI in the press release for the new Echo Show 8 , the new Echo Hub , and the new Echo Frames.
 “These new Echo devices give customers more ways to experience the world’s best personal AI — and the growing generative AI capabilities that will be coming to Alexa soon — at home and on the go.” And we had plenty of examples of it during Amazon’s 90-minute presentation featuring all of the aforementioned products. AI was quickly out of the mouth of Dave Limp, the outgoing vice president of devices and services for Amazon. We heard more from the likes of Rohit Prasad, senior vice president and head scientist, artificial intelligence. And from Heather Zorn, vice president for Alexa, And from Daniel Rausch, vice president of Alexa and Fire TV.
Heather Zorn, vice president of Alexa for Amazon.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends So, yes: AI was everywhere this week for Amazon. It’s not just embedded in the foundation of Alexa going forward, it might be the foundation. It’s hard to overemphasize its importance.
Daniel Rausch, vice president of Fire TV and Alexa for Amazon, in front of an AI-generated photo on Fire TV Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Here’s the problem: If everything has AI, is it really a feature that sells devices and entices you to use services? And just like the 5G Wars that came before, is Amazon’s AI really going to be that much better than Google’s? Or Apple’s? Or Microsoft’s? You’re not going to see a “Now with more AI!” sticker on your new Echo Dot or Fire TV Soundbar (at least I hope not). It might be more akin to the old “Intel Inside” badges, but it’s more fundamental than that. Intel was the engine. AI and large language models and datasets are the new fuel. Carmakers might proudly badge a car with “V8,” but nobody’s putting a “Gasoline” sticker on there.
Chances are, what will continue to sell Amazon products is price, more than anything ( $600 consumer-grade routers , excluded). You’re going to expect your $50 or $60 Fire TV Stick to have AI, because it will. You’re going to expect your Echo speaker to have AI, because they will too, going all the way back to the very first Echo all those years ago. And AI will be in devices that look cooler than they are useful. If today’s AI-studded Microsoft Surface event was any indication, that’s just the way things are headed.
Rohit Prasad, lead scientist for artificial general intelligence at Amazon.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends AI is table stakes at this point. The ante isn’t all that high yet, and it’s going to get more expensive — and important — over time in terms of what it can do for us as consumers, what it’ll do for companies, and just how the hell all our data (both disaggregated and en masse) will be handled.
That’s true for everyone. And this week, it was especially true for Amazon.
Editors' Recommendations Adding AI to Alexa is the brain transplant we’ve all been waiting for I tried the Amazon Echo Show 8, a smart display that transforms when you get close New Ring and Blink cams bring extended range, battery life, 3D motion detection Everything announced at Amazon’s fall 2023 devices event At long last, Amazon brings AI features to Alexa Smart Home Amazon Artificial Intelligence Features Audio / Video Amazon is giving six months of free access to MGM+ in conjunction with the purchase of a new Fire TV. The announcement came as part of Amazon's massive annual device event at HQ2 in Arlington, Virginia. And that means low-cost sticks, as well as more expensive televisions running Amazon Fire TV.
Unsurprisingly, Amazon also used the event to announce a new Fire TV Stick 4K, Fire TV Stick 4K Max, and Fire TV Soundbar. Amazon announced in March 2023 that more than 200 million Fire TV devices had been sold worldwide, and that number is poised to continue growing strongly.
Smart Home Another year, another batch of new devices from Amazon's fall event. This year's showcase had plenty of newly announced gear and improvements to some much-loved Alexa-powered products. From an all-new interactive touchscreen display for controlling all your smart home devices to a fresh set of Echo shades, many of these cutting-edge gadgets are already available for preorder. Here's all the hardware we found out about today.
The all-new Echo Hub Smart Home Amazon Astro is one of the most intriguing products in the Amazon catalog -- and a new report indicates it might become even more enticing in the future. According to internal documents, Amazon will be bringing enhanced AI to Astro, allowing it to perform more useful tasks around your home.
The AI project has been dubbed Burnham, and it’s hoping to turn Astro into more than just a smart home gimmick. Once the project is officially rolled out, Amazon hopes to give Astro the ability to better remember what it’s encountered in its environment and suggest things you can do to improve your home’s safety.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
