Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features 6 HomeKit settings you should disable (or adjust) right now By Keyan Riddick Close With the Homepod mini being so accessible and the new HomePod earning rave reviews, HomeKit has started to grow in popularity. Sure, its catalog isn’t quite as robust as that of Amazon Alexa or Google Home, but there’s no denying the appeal of a premium, Apple-powered smart home. And while HomeKit is an incredibly secure platform, it’s not perfect.
Disable the ‘Hey Siri’ trigger word Enable confirmation chimes Turn off listening history Turn off location services Delete stored Siri history Turn off app integration Whenever you give Siri and command or ask it a question, details about the request are sent to Apple. While Apple does its best to hide unique information about you, it still collects contact information, music preferences, smart home usage statistics, and more.
Apple goes as far as to delete information it collects from you after six months, and there are settings you can disable (or adjust) to minimize the amount of personal data Apple has access to. Here’s a look at six HomeKit settings you should disable or adjust as soon as possible.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Disable the ‘Hey Siri’ trigger word This setting is likely the first you’ll want to turn off on your HomePods, especially if you usually carry your iPhone or Apple Watch. Disabling this requires you to tap the top of a HomePod to ask Siri a question. This setting also prevents Siri from constantly listening, even if Apple says it only listens for trigger words.
To change “Hey Siri” behavior, first go to Settings then to Siri & Search.
After that, tap to turn off Listen for ‘Hey Siri and Press Home or Side Button for Siri.
Enable confirmation chimes This setting will ensure that a chime sound (or whatever you noise you choose) will play when Siri actively listens to an inquiry. It makes sense that you’ll want to know when Siri is actively listening, especially if you weren’t the one to trigger it.
To make this change, you first have to go to the Home app, then select the specific HomePod by touching and holding the specific device. Scroll down to the bottom of the list and then tap Turn on Sound When Using Siri.
Turn off listening history With this setting, you can stop Siri from accessing information from Apple Music and Podcasts. Apple uses this information to learn more about what you like and listen to for music suggestions.
In order to turn off listening history from media apps, go to your Home app and then tap Home Settings. From there, tap a user and then select Update Listening History.
 After that, you can turn off listening history for each HomePod or other accessory.
Turn off location services Although you won’t be moving your Homepod from place to place, it will know the locations you’ve taken your iPhone and other devices. It can also learn what addresses you consider Home, Work, and other saved places. Removing those locations from your devices will prevent anyone else from finding them.
To turn off services, open the Settings and go to the Privacy category. Then, select Location Services, Siri & Dictation, and toggle it to Never.
Delete stored Siri history You can delete your Siri request and dictation history. If you don’t want Apple to hang onto it for those six months, a few quick taps will delete all that information.
To Delete Siri history, open the Settings app, and go to Siri & Search.
 From there, select Siri & Detection History, then Delete Siri & Dictation History.
Turn off app integration If you still want to use some apps with Siri requests or dictation, you can customize which app Siri taps into. This setting will allow you to only use Siri with the apps that need it.
To customize which apps can integrate with Siri, go to your Settings app. Go to the Siri & Search category and choose the specific app you want to change Siri behavior with. Then select or deselect Use with Ask Sir i.
Apple might go above and beyond the competition in protecting user privacy, but it is still a massive company with millions of users. Some data will slip through the cracks. You can follow these steps to reduce the amount of data HomeKit can gather about you and do your part to keep your information safe.
Editors' Recommendations Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update 6 things you didn’t know Apple Homekit could do Aqara launches U100 smart lock with full Apple HomeKit support Why you should be using Google Home Routines Apple might launch a HomePod smart display in 2024 Apple Features Internet of Things (IoT) Smart Home Apple recently revealed its second-gen HomePod, which is set to become the company’s flagship smart speaker in 2023. Featuring the S7 chipset, spatial audio, Matter compatibility, and tons of fancy room-sensing tech, the device is certain to be a hit when it launches in February. It’ll also feature a temperature and humidity sensor. Oddly enough, so does the existing HomePod Mini -- except Apple has only just activated the feature.
Apple has kept the temperature and humidity sensor deactivated for years, although now, with the launch of a new HomePod around the corner, the company has finally gone ahead and turned on the instrument in its existing Home Mini lineup. Once your HomePod Mini receives the update, you’ll be able to use it to track both the temperature and humidity in your home, then use that information to create various automations through Apple Home.
Smart Home Apple recently announced a new HomePod with support for Matter, but it seems the company might have bigger smart home plans for the rest of 2023. According to the latest report from Bloomberg, Apple is allegedly working on an iPad-like device that could directly compete with Amazon’s Echo Show and Google’s Nest Hub Max.
Details on the rumored product are scarce, but it seems the device would feature a touchscreen and function similar to an iPad. Magnets would allow it to be mounted to a wall, and HomeKit would give it access to all your smart home products. It’s unclear at this time if the device would feature a stand, allowing it to sit on your countertops like the Echo Show and Nest Hub. What is clear, however, is that Apple wants to gain a stronger foothold in the smart home market -- and this could serve as a great alternative to using the HomePod Mini as a HomeKit hub.
Smart Home After running into a few roadblocks, Matter is officially here. Announced by the Connectivity Standards Alliance (CSA), the Matter certification program is now live, allowing manufacturers to bring the tech to their products and release them on an expedited timeline.
Matter is big news in the smart home community, as it will serve as a universal framework that allows different ecosystems to interact with each other. For example, your Alexa-enabled devices will be able to use Matter to communicate with your Apple HomeKit products. Its goal is to streamline the setup process for smart home devices and build an ecosystem that’s easy to use while bringing together products and software from Samsung, Google, Apple, and over 280 other collaborators.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
