Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features Adding AI to Alexa is the brain transplant we’ve all been waiting for By Nick Mokey Close Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends “Alexa, turn the kitchen to cooking mode,” my wife innocently requests.
Inferences to the rescue Amazing what a little understanding can do About time “What do you mean by cooking mode?” her digital tormentor needles.
“ Alexa , cooking mode ,” I intervene, uttering the phrase precisely as it was set up in the app.
The Amazon Echo Hub is almost the whole-home hub I’ve always wanted Everything announced at Amazon’s fall 2023 devices event Amazon’s Echo family expands with an on-wall hub, smart glasses, and more The kitchen lights brighten as intended, but my wife looks like she’s about to dump the Echo in the trash.
I couldn’t really blame her at this point. In an era when ChatGPT can convincingly mimic a grad student by writing a coherent 1,500-word essay on the themes in Fahrenheit 451 within seconds, Alexa has remained a pedantic 9-year-old waiting to deny you the salt at the dinner table because you didn’t say please.
That all changed – hopefully – on Wednesday, when Amazon used its annual fall devices event to reveal what might be a desperately needed feature: generative AI.
 And I’m hoping it will save my household from our face-palming relationship with the dim-witted virtual roommate who lives in our speakers.
Inferences to the rescue If you watched Amazon’s Alexa guru Dave Limp demonstrate the large language model technology at the event, you could be forgiven for waving it off as another AI parlor trick. The “Let’s chat” feature basically just acts like a spoken ChatGPT prompt. Say something, Alexa will respond.
“What are some good sides to go with barbecue chicken?” Dave asks. Alexa recommends some. We’ve seen this before. It’s cute, but I’m not really interested in bantering with Alexa about the Seahawks or hearing its witty quips on Florence and The Machine. The good stuff was buried at the end.
Phil Nickonson / Digital Trends Alexa now makes inferences, which have been the missing holy grail during the assistant’s nearly decade-long existence. To steal an example from Amazon’s presentation, if you install a new smart light in your living room, Alexa should now be able to understand the command, “ Alexa , turn on the new living room light,” even if you’ve named it “lamp.” It’s new. It’s a light. It’s in the living room. Alexa should be able to figure this out, and it finally can. Simple as it sounds, this is an absolute game changer for living with a smart home.
In the case of my opening example, inferences should allow Alexa to understand that I want to run the routine called “cooking mode” in the kitchen, even if my wife doesn’t summon it verbatim with the magic phrase from the app. Phrases like “turn off all the lights except in the living room” are now intelligible to Alexa.
 And that’s just the beginning.
Amazing what a little understanding can do AI also uncorks a host of other possibilities. For instance, conversational speech recognition (CSR) means that Alexa should be able to pick up on pauses in speech without assuming you’re done and interrupting. A new automatic speech recognition (ASR) engine means that Alexa should not only understand your words more accurately, but will be capable of recognizing intonation, like excitement or sadness. When you’re in Let’s Chat mode, you can reply to Alexa without saying its name every time, and stack commands as you would when talking to a human: “turn off the lights, open the blinds, and play some jazz.” Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends And this one’s long overdue: You can create routines by voice now. “Alexa, turn off the porch light at midnight every day.” Boom, done. I can’t count how many times I’ve wanted to set something convenient up, only to defer because I don’t want to mess with the app, and then ultimately forgot to do it.
About time Will it all work as promised? I think we all know a little better. Even during the live demo, Alexa clammed up in response to some commands and had to be asked again. But if ChatGPT is any indication, generative AI is capable of some truly amazing feats, and Alexa might just be the perfect use case for it. We can be patient.
This is what I’ve wanted from Amazon for years. I don’t need a home security drone , an Alexa microwave , or a half-baked robot that falls down the stairs , I just need Alexa to execute the things it’s already capable of more reliably, easily, and without making me want to feed my Echo into a blender.
Based on Wednesday’s announcements, Amazon finally seems to get that.
Alexa, don’t mess this up.
Editors' Recommendations At Amazon’s annual device event, AI was everywhere — and nowhere I tried the Amazon Echo Show 8, a smart display that transforms when you get close At long last, Amazon brings AI features to Alexa Amazon might be using Alexa to send you targeted ads Amazon fall hardware event: Home robot, flying drone, and new Alexa devices Amazon Amazon Alexa Features Smart Home Amazon’s fall 2021 event certainly didn’t disappoint, showcasing everything from a new wall-mounted Echo Show to an Amazon home robot (no, really). But the company is also adding new services to its lineup, including a brand new Alexa ability called Alexa Together.
While services like Alexa Guard focus on security, Alexa Together is specifically targeted to those aging in place, seniors who are remaining in their own homes or moving into independent living situations like granny pods. It works with a variety of Amazon devices and is compatible with third-party monitoring devices as well -- such as some fall detectors -- so it can draw in data from multiple sources. Key features include: Smart Home Amazon is finally hopping on the smart thermostat train. Revealed at the company's annual fall conference, the Amazon Smart Thermostat, produced in collaboration with Honeywell, will sell for $60.
Compatible with most residential 24-volt HVAC systems, this Energy-Star certified thermostat will go toe-to-toe with the likes of Google Nest, Ecobee, and other competitors. But compared to the rest, Amazon's offering looks to be one of the cheapest smart thermostats on the market, period. And once you add in things like energy provider rebates and other savings tools, it becomes clear just how great of an investment the Amazon Smart Thermostat could be.
Smart Home During Amazon's fall event, the company announced a new, useful feature: Alexa Care Hub. Alexa makes it possible to stay connected with loved ones even from afar thanks to calling, drop-in, and much more, but until now there wasn't a dedicated way to keep an eye on them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
