Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features Are smart kitchen gadgets worth it? By Erin Lawrence Close Have you ever given any thought to what the word ‘smart’ truly means? At its most basic, it denotes someone who is clever, quick-witted, or very intelligent. But what about when it comes to a smart device? The dictionary (or Alexa, if we’re being honest) would say a smart device is one that’s programmed to be capable of some type of independent action. The keywords there are “some type.” That’s the trouble with smart devices, gadgets, and appliances: “smart” isn’t a universally understood or regulated feature.
Too often, manufacturers, in a bid to sell more gadgets, tack on the word smart in front of any old device. Today’s savvy consumer asks what exactly that means. Is it a clever feature? Wi-Fi connectedness? A companion app? All of the above? Or does something as simple as adding an LED touchscreen to an appliance make it smart? Image used with permission by copyright holder What is ‘smart’? A ‘smart’ device can mean myriad things depending on the manufacturer. It can be a TV that has Wi-Fi or a smart speaker that can listen and respond to your queries. It can even be a gadget with a companion app. But what kind of smarts are you really getting, and is the technology useful and effective? Smart ovens are a relatively new concept when it comes to the smart kitchen arena, but even in this small tech space, your options vary wildly. Some use curated food deliveries plus QR codes the oven (or a companion app) will scan. Once the code is scanned, the smart oven takes care of setting the temperature, adjusting the cooking time, and notifying you when the meal is ready. Others use store-bought food alongside an app to recommend recipes or cooking programs that promise to cook food perfectly, but you still have to use your head.
The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces New Wyze Video Doorbell v2 offers microSD card slot, 2K resolution for just $40 Smart but not smart What about when it comes to smart kitchen gadgets in particular? Let’s take the example of a smart toaster. In the last few years there have been two significant launches of so-called smart toasters: the Revolution Instaglo and, more recently, the Tineco Toasty One.
These toasters are marvels of design and beauty and boast bright touch screens and toasting technology that promises crispy carb perfection. In truth, these are regular toasters with the addition of an LED touchscreen display. That’s it. No Wi-Fi, no “Hey Google, hit me with some toast,” and no tiny robotic arms that can retrieve sliced bread, grill it to perfection, then butter it for you. So while the addition of a glowing screen is nice and may allow you a few more options than a dial numbered one through six, in my book, this doesn’t truly constitute genuine smarts.
They’re also much more expensive than their “non-smart” counterparts — and while they might look fancy, their still just a toaster. In other words, most smart toasters aren’t worth your time or money.
Tineco Smart kitchen appliances aren’t smart in the same that an Amazon Echo smart speaker with a screen is truly smart. An Echo is connected to the web and can listen for you and respond appropriately. It can manage your schedule, turn on lights and adjust a thermostat, and even order supplies from Amazon for delivery.
However, even internet connectivity is no guarantee of a better gadget. Is, for example, a smart TV that allows streaming truly any more valuable than simply plugging in an external streaming TV dongle? Some gadgets even put ‘smart’ in the name without ever actually adding intelligence, automation, or connectivity. One example is the Click and Grow Smart Garden , which is a great indoor winter garden for growing herbs and lettuce but it has no Wi-Fi, no connection, and no automated watering. It does, however, have an app that will send you push notifications reminding you to refill your water each month. So where is the ‘smart’ in that? Image used with permission by copyright holder NutriBullet made the Balance Blender which has a Bluetooth connection to a companion app. The app supplies recipes and works with a built-in scale to help you weigh ingredients in the recipe accurately. Pretty smart. There’s a smart toothbrush that will use your phone’s camera to watch you brush your teeth and give you a full report.
Alexa-enabled coffee makers also already exist and allow you to call for your morning java from the comfort of the covers.
But there’s another consideration about these smart appliances: do we need that much help with basic tasks? It’s possible to brush one’s teeth in two minutes without an app and without connecting to Wi-Fi, and while a camera-based brushing assessment might be nice for a check-in once in a while, it’s not the type of technology you’re going to want to use twice each day since it adds time and additional steps. Same deal with the Bluetooth blender; it might be helpful to have the built-in scale display weight on your smartphone the first time you make a recipe, but will you really need it after that? And while a digital touch screen is fun to watch while you’re waiting for toast, is it worth the literally hundreds of additional dollars you’ll spend? As it stands, most smart kitchen appliances simply aren’t “smart” enough to recommend. Touchscreens and smartphone apps are great, but do they really make your life significantly easier? A robot vacuum can save you hours of time every week. A video doorbell helps keep your home secure. Smart locks offer flexibility for large families. These smart gadgets bring massive improvements to your life and justify their price tags. But is a $300 toaster with a touchscreen really that much better than your $30 toaster from five years ago? More and more kitchen gadgets are adding smart to the name. Don’t blindly buy the hype. It’s up to us as consumers to understand exactly what we’re really getting and decide if it’s truly worth it. And until kitchen appliances start to introduce “smart” features that actually make your life easier, there’s not a whole lot to get excited about.
Editors' Recommendations Amazon Astro gets a day job with Astro for Business Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Emporia resolves issue with Smart Plugs that spurred recall Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update Ring celebrates Halloween by adding spooky Quick Replies to its video doorbells Features Smart Home Ecobee, known for its lineup of popular smart thermostats, is officially jumping into the world of video doorbells with the aptly named Smart Doorbell Camera. Featuring an impressive 175-degree vertical field of view, premium materials, and the ability to sync with the rest of the Ecobee home security catalog, it's a well-equipped device that's taking aim at big names such as Ring and Arlo.
The big selling point of the Ecobee Smart Doorbell Camera is its 175-degree field of view, which allows it to capture packages left at your doorstep without cutting off your view of tall guests ringing your doorbell. It also boasts enhanced ability in lowlight situations and records in 1080p.
Smart Home The spooky season is almost here, and if you’re worried about throwing the perfect Halloween party, consider using your smart home to do the heavy lifting. Common smart home gadgets such as motion sensors, light bulbs, and smart plugs make it easy to pull off a horrifying Halloween party for your guests. From assisting with your playlist and movie selections to creating a chilling ambiance, here’s a look at all the ways your smart home can help you throw a killer Halloween party.
Use motion sensors to trigger spooky sounds Have a smart home security system? Then you can probably rig up your motion sensors to play a spooky noise. It doesn't necessarily have to be a motion sensor, either -- your smart camera can trigger other devices in your smart home when it detects motion.
Just place a speaker on your porch, perhaps tucked away behind a pumpkin or a bit of straw. When a group of unsuspecting kids shows up to ask for candy, they set off the motion sensor on the camera, which triggers the speaker to play the sound of a zombie's moan or the cackle of a witch. Bonus points if you set up an animatronic hand to rise up out of the straw.
Smart Home Nanoleaf has been a big proponent of Matter, with a couple of products in its Essentials lineup already supporting the interoperability standard. The company today announced it’s expanding its selection of Matter-enabled smart home gadgets with four new products -- two of which are members of the Essentials lineup, while the other two are stylish table lamps designed in collaboration with Umbra.
The Nanoleaf Essentials Matter GU10 and Recessed Downlight are the two products joining the existing Essentials catalog. Both work with Matter over Thread, allowing users to access millions of colors, Schedules, and Scenes. The Downlight is of particular interest, as it features a slim design that should easily fit existing cutouts for 4-inch recessed lights.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
