Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features The Arlo Go 2 can go beyond Wi-Fi, and that’s really cool By Patrick Hearn Close I’ve reviewed a lot of security cameras over the years, but I’ve never gotten my hands on an Arlo. When the company offered the Arlo Go 2 for a review, I jumped at the chance. After all, Arlo comes with a stellar reputation and a lot of awesome features, and the Go 2 sets itself apart even further by working off an LTE network instead of just Wi-Fi. That, combined with impressive battery life, makes it ideal for monitoring areas of the home that might not have the greatest connection to the router — a gap that few current cameras address.
Specs A load of features Setting customization galore That’s its main draw, but the Arlo Go 2 does a lot of other things right. I’ve had it for a few weeks now, and I’m quite impressed with this little camera.
Specs The Arlo Go 2 has a whopping 13,000mAh battery. Arlo says the battery should provide eight months of life if used on Wi-Fi, or about two and a half over LTE. The good news is that it also comes with a charging cable, and it’s easy to snap the camera out of its socket and charge it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Beyond that, it streams in 1080p, has 12x digital zoom, and has a bright LED spotlight that can illuminate up to 25 feet in the dark. The motion sensors detect movement up to 23 feet away, but motion zones help narrow down those areas.
Google’s Nest Aware service is getting more expensive Google Home adds support for Nest Cam Indoor SimpliSafe now offers live home monitoring with new Smart Alarm Wireless Indoor Security Camera This is an outdoor camera, after all, so it’s quite weather-resistant through its IP65 rating. With a safe operating range from -4 to 113 Fahrenheit, it’s a tough little camera that will work well in most environments.
A load of features Something else I noticed about the Arlo Go 2 is that it’s one of the most feature-rich smart cameras I’ve ever used. Not only does it allow me to change the flicker adjustment between 50 and 60Hz (or leave it on Auto), but I can even adjust the LEDs that display on the exterior of the camera. If you’re trying to hide the Arlo from sight, turning off the LEDs will go a long way.
This is good, because it’s not exactly the most nondescript camera; the white oval shape stands out, and the mounting device causes the Arlo to stick out a good way from whatever it’s attached to. A few additional features to help keep it hidden are appreciated.
The real surprise of the Arlo Go 2 is GPS tracking.
There are also built-in utilities to help you best position the camera, as well as a Motion Detection Test that lets you check the range and sensitivity of the sensor. You can adjust the sensitivity during the test to fine-tune your home security.
But the real surprise? GPS location. There’s an option in the Arlo Go 2’s setting menu to turn on GPS tracking for the camera. You can use this to find the camera should it disappear from its mount, or to help you remember where you placed it if the camera is monitoring something in the forest. I didn’t expect to come across this feature, but it’s a welcome addition to the camera that points to the thoughtfulness of the overall design.
Setting customization galore Another plus for the Arlo Go 2 is just how customizable it is. I can go into the video settings menu and adjust the brightness of the camera display, rotate the image 180 degrees, tweak the low light settings (basically turning the spotlight on or off), and choose how to best utilize the battery life.
I can also adjust the camera’s speaker volume, disable the microphone or speaker, and more. The Arlo Go 2 supports local storage through an onboard SD card, so if you’re worried about cloud privacy concerns, it’s a great way to go.
Of course, you can also set up activity zones to reduce the number of motion alerts and focus them on a specific area.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Combine all of that with an Arlo Secure subscription, and the camera becomes even more powerful. Arlo Secure enables a lot of other features like Smart Notifications, Package Detection, Emergency Response, and Call a Friend.
Smart Notifications are more intelligent motion alerts that allow you to respond easily and quickly to a situation. Package Detection is exactly what it sounds like; the camera will recognize the shape of a delivery and alert you that one has been dropped off.
The Emergency Response feature makes it easy to dispatch fire, police, or medical responders to the user’s location, and the Call a Friend feature lets you dial a friend from the Arlo app — preferably a close friend that lives nearby and can check on your home for you.
Of course, it comes at a cost. Arlo Secure is $10 per month for unlimited cameras or $3 for a single camera. Secure Plus is $15 per month for unlimited cameras, and Safe and Secure Pro is $20 per month. Still, if you’re looking for the best possible security, the Safe and Secure Pro plan comes with a slew of features that make the cost worthwhile.
The Arlo Go 2 is a fantastic security camera, and I can’t help but be impressed with its ability to work over LTE. The ability to place it at the end of a long driveway that’s far out of Wi-Fi range is truly useful. At $250 per camera, it’s not inexpensive — but those that want high-end security cameras could do a lot worse than this.
Editors' Recommendations Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Philips Hue adds support for cameras and sensors Blink Outdoor Camera 4 launches with Person Detection, new design, 2-year battery life The Wyze Cam Floodlight Pro is a premium outdoor camera with tons of AI features Ring’s new indoor camera features a built-in privacy shutter Features Home Security Smart Home It looks like households equipped with older, legacy Arlo products won’t have to rush out and buy new gear after all, as the company has changed course on its end-of-life policy that was revealed last month. Previously, several aging cameras and video doorbells in the Arlo lineup were expected to lose access to seven-day cloud storage, notifications, and future updates -- but after reaching out to its community, the company has decided to extend coverage instead of roll it back.
As products age, it’s standard practice for companies to stop supporting them. The time and resources needed to manage outdated products aren’t insignificant, and newer products that are pegged as their replacement quickly become the new focus. However, there was a bit of backlash when Arlo announced its original plans, as a handful of the devices scheduled to be sunset had been released just over five years ago.
Smart Home When it comes to Ring's lineup of home security cameras, there's certainly no shortage of models to choose from. Whether you're thinking about adding surveillance to a few rooms in your home or want to create a cohesive net of Wi-Fi-powered monitoring for every room, along with a few outdoor locations, there's a Ring camera that will get the job done.
Like many DIY home security solutions, it can be a bit daunting to sift through the many types of cameras and other security peripherals that Ring offers, but that's where we come in. We've been writing about and testing Ring products for years, so when it comes to adding a Ring camera to your home, we know exactly what we're talking about.
Smart Home Amazon recently revealed several new security cameras, and now Eufy has decided to join in on the fun. The manufacturer has officially launched the Edge Security System, which includes the eufyCam 3 cameras along with a central hub that offers improved AI for more accurate identification of people, animals, and other objects that wander into its field of view.
The entire setup is powered by the new HomeBase 3. This is where the self-learning AI is housed, allowing the system to accurately catalog different motion events into the proper folder. For example, the Edge Security System will be able to tell you if the person approaching your home is a friend, family member, or stranger, then send you the proper alert and catalog the video for future reference.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
