Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features The 8 best Alexa holiday commands By Jon Bitner Close The holiday season might be known as the “most wonderful time of the year,” but it’s also one of the busiest. Whether you’re gearing up for a road trip or hosting a family get-together, these winter days are bound to seem even shorter than usual. Thankfully, Amazon Alexa is here to streamline your agenda and provide plenty of holiday cheer. From playing games and telling jokes to curating your playlist and tracking the weather, here are eight Alexa holiday commands to make your 2022 holiday the best yet.
Alexa, show me some holiday movies Alexa, spin the dreidel Alexa, ask Santa if I’m naughty or nice Alexa, track Santa Alexa, tell me a holiday joke Alexa, where are my packages? Alexa, will it snow on Christmas? Alexa, play Christmas/Hanukkah music Alexa, show me some holiday movies Image used with permission by copyright holder Plopping down with a warm blanket and watching a holiday movie is one of the best ways to spend your cold December nights. And if you need some help narrowing down all the options, Alexa can show you some of the best holiday movies currently available. When connected to a Fire TV, you can even have Alexa automatically load up the movie for you.
Alexa, spin the dreidel Dreidel is a popular game to play around Hanukkah, and Alexa can both teach you the rules and serve as the central game piece. Simply ask Alexa “how do I play dreidel” to get a refresher on the rules, then ask to “spin the dreidel” to get the game started.
The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces New Wyze Video Doorbell v2 offers microSD card slot, 2K resolution for just $40 Alexa, ask Santa if I’m naughty or nice Image used with permission by copyright holder Curious to know what you’ll find under the tree this year? Alexa can help you determine if your name is on the Naughty or Nice list by running you through a series of questions.
Alexa, track Santa After adjusting a few permissions in your Alexa app, this feature will load the NORAD program to track Santa’s location. You won’t get much info until the night before Christmas — but it’s worth knowing the command ahead of time.
Alexa, tell me a holiday joke If you need a corny joke to spice up your holiday conversation, Alexa is here to help. The assistant knows a variety of holiday jokes — although some are a bit more entertaining than others.
Alexa, where are my packages? Image used with permission by copyright holder Since Alexa can connect to your Amazon shopping account, it should come as no surprise that the assistant can easily track all your orders. This command will give you every bit of information you’d need to know about any open Amazon orders, including their arrival date.
Alexa, will it snow on Christmas? Everyone is dreaming of a white Christmas, but not everyone will be lucky enough for that dream to become a reality. Alexa can’t change the weather, but it can give you the forecast. This command is also helpful if you’ll be traveling for the holidays — although if you live in the northern portion of the United States, there’s a good chance you’ll have to contend with snow during your trip.
Alexa, play Christmas/Hanukkah music Image used with permission by copyright holder No holiday party is complete without a good playlist, and instead of curating your own this year, let Alexa put on its DJ hat. Both Christmas and Hanukkah playlists are available, and by saying the above command, you can quickly fill your home with festive music.
Editors' Recommendations Amazon Astro gets a day job with Astro for Business Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Emporia resolves issue with Smart Plugs that spurred recall Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update Ring celebrates Halloween by adding spooky Quick Replies to its video doorbells Amazon Features Smart Home Ecobee, known for its lineup of popular smart thermostats, is officially jumping into the world of video doorbells with the aptly named Smart Doorbell Camera. Featuring an impressive 175-degree vertical field of view, premium materials, and the ability to sync with the rest of the Ecobee home security catalog, it's a well-equipped device that's taking aim at big names such as Ring and Arlo.
The big selling point of the Ecobee Smart Doorbell Camera is its 175-degree field of view, which allows it to capture packages left at your doorstep without cutting off your view of tall guests ringing your doorbell. It also boasts enhanced ability in lowlight situations and records in 1080p.
Smart Home The spooky season is almost here, and if you’re worried about throwing the perfect Halloween party, consider using your smart home to do the heavy lifting. Common smart home gadgets such as motion sensors, light bulbs, and smart plugs make it easy to pull off a horrifying Halloween party for your guests. From assisting with your playlist and movie selections to creating a chilling ambiance, here’s a look at all the ways your smart home can help you throw a killer Halloween party.
Use motion sensors to trigger spooky sounds Have a smart home security system? Then you can probably rig up your motion sensors to play a spooky noise. It doesn't necessarily have to be a motion sensor, either -- your smart camera can trigger other devices in your smart home when it detects motion.
Just place a speaker on your porch, perhaps tucked away behind a pumpkin or a bit of straw. When a group of unsuspecting kids shows up to ask for candy, they set off the motion sensor on the camera, which triggers the speaker to play the sound of a zombie's moan or the cackle of a witch. Bonus points if you set up an animatronic hand to rise up out of the straw.
Smart Home Nanoleaf has been a big proponent of Matter, with a couple of products in its Essentials lineup already supporting the interoperability standard. The company today announced it’s expanding its selection of Matter-enabled smart home gadgets with four new products -- two of which are members of the Essentials lineup, while the other two are stylish table lamps designed in collaboration with Umbra.
The Nanoleaf Essentials Matter GU10 and Recessed Downlight are the two products joining the existing Essentials catalog. Both work with Matter over Thread, allowing users to access millions of colors, Schedules, and Scenes. The Downlight is of particular interest, as it features a slim design that should easily fit existing cutouts for 4-inch recessed lights.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
