Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Features Self-emptying robot vacuums: Do you really need one? By Patrick Hearn Close Many robot vacuums are smart enough to automatically clean your home, but most lack the ability to empty their dustbins. That means you’ll still be fussing with a dirty robot vacuum — which sort of defeats the entire purpose. However, if you step up to a premium model like the iRobot Roomba j7+ , you’ll benefit from a device that knows how to empty itself when its dustbin is full.
What is a self-emptying system? The benefits of self-emptying robot vacuums The downsides of self-emptying robot vacuums What about self-cleaning robot mops? Is a self-emptying robot vacuum worth it? The capability can even be found on some midrange models, but is a self-emptying robot vacuum necessary? Or should you save the extra cash and opt for an entry-level robot that lacks the feature? Here’s a closer look at the benefits and drawbacks associated with self-emptying robot vacuums.
What is a self-emptying system? As a robot vacuum cleans, it pulls debris into an interior storage system — usually a relatively small dustbin. Depending on the size of your home and how dirty the floor is, you may have to empty the dustbin every two or three cleaning cycles.
Image used with permission by copyright holder A self-emptying system provides a dock for the robot vacuum to rest in that not only charges the device, but also connects it to a series of vacuums that pull the dirt and debris out of the dustbin and into a much larger storage bin. Think of it like the bag on a traditional vacuum cleaner. You just empty the base station every 30 or 60 days rather than every two or three days.
Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ robot vacuum and mop is perfect for high-pile carpet SwitchBot S10 robot vacuum connects to your plumbing for fully automated mopping The benefits of self-emptying robot vacuums The convenience of a robot vacuum is that it does the cleaning for you. The more hands-off it is, the better. Imagine a busy parent in the middle of the week. They’re handling kids, work, and a host of other household chores. In the middle of it all, they have to stop to empty the vacuum. Not needing to vacuum is a benefit, but if you have to stop multiple times throughout your day just so the robot vacuum can continue its job — especially in a big house — those benefits are somewhat negated.
A self-emptying system also means you can run the robot vacuum more often. If you know you have to step in and empty the dustbin throughout the day, you might be hesitant to use the vacuum more than what’s absolutely necessary. On the other hand, if it empties itself, you can run it much more often and keep your home that much cleaner.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Following that same line of thought, you can make better use of a robot vacuum in larger homes. If you have to empty the vacuum multiple times per run, it means you can’t really make use of a cleaning schedule. You have to be home when the vacuum runs. With a self-emptying base, even people in much larger homes can set their vacuum to run and forget about it.
Storage bags within self-emptying systems are designed to contain dirt and debris without letting anything out; in other words, even with a bag full of pet hair and dander, you don’t have to worry about allergies just from being near the base station. Plus, the blowback that most people experience when emptying their bot’s dustbin is eliminated, so there’s no more thin layer of dust on your hands after it’s emptied! The downsides of self-emptying robot vacuums With robot vacuums, the pros definitely outweigh the cons — but there are still things of which to be aware.
The first is the size. A robot vacuum requires a certain amount of space on either side of it and in front of it (usually 1.5 feet and 4.5 feet, respectively), but you can often place it under a table or tucked out of the way until needed. With the addition of a self-emptying base, it takes up far more room.
Image used with permission by copyright holder For example, the iRobot Roomba i7 Plus Clean Base is 19 inches tall and 12 inches wide, with a slight ramp in front of it that the Roomba rests on. It requires much more floor space than a robot vacuum on its own.
Another downside is the noise. While brief, the process of emptying the dustbin is loud.
While no robot vacuum is considered quiet — it is a vacuum cleaner, after all — most are quiet enough that they won’t actively bother you. On average, robot vacuums fall somewhere in the 60 to 70 decibel range. The self-emptying process is easily 10 decibels louder.
The final downside is the cost. The iRobot Clean Base is an extra $250, while the dirt storage bags are roughly $5 each and offered in packs of three. The same can be said about the Shark IQ’s self-emptying base, which commands the same $250 additional charge. That’s not pocket change, especially when combined with the cost of the robot vacuum itself.
What about self-cleaning robot mops? Ecovacs Many manufacturers are now offering mopping skills with their robot vacuums. These products make it easy to keep both your carpets and hard floors clean – and many of them can now clean themselves.
For example, the Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni features a dock that uses both hot water and hot air to rinse and dry the mopping pads after each cleaning cycle. That means you’ll never have to get your hands dirty to keep your floors clean. When combined with a self-emptying dustbin, all your floor-cleaning chores are fully automated. This makes robot vacuum and mop combinations incredibly popular.
However, these systems often cost upwards of $1,000 – making them shockingly expensive for most households. But if you’re looking for a truly automated clean (and your home is comprised largely of hard floors), these systems might be more beneficial than a standalone robot vacuum with a self-emptying dustbin.
Cleaning out a dustbin might be a hassle, but it typically only takes a few seconds. Thoroughly rinsing a mop and leaving it to dry, however, can take hours. With a self-cleaning and self-drying robot mop, that’s one headache you can cross off your checklist.
Is a self-emptying robot vacuum worth it? A robot vacuum without a self-emptying base is worth it, but it is definitely more worth it with one. The self-emptying base adds a fair amount of value and convenience to any compatible robot vacuum. It’s especially valuable if you have individuals at home who are more sensitive to dust and allergens. You’re less likely to reintroduce debris if you go with a self-emptying bot.
It’s even more valuable if you live in a large house with a lot of floor space to cover. The robot vacuum will clean more efficiently, and you won’t have to empty it multiple times per run.
On the other hand, if you live in a studio apartment, it might be better to purchase just the robot vacuum and invest in a self-emptying base later. The large size of the base station dominates a decent amount of space and would not yield as many benefits in a smaller area.
If you’re shopping for a robot vacuum and mop combo, there’s no doubt you’ll benefit from finding one with a self-cleaning system. They’re typically not cheap, but if you don’t mind the added cost, you’ll enjoy a fully automated floor-cleaning process.
Editors' Recommendations The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni boasts a new square design and improved vacuuming skills Roborock is launching two affordable robot vacuums in October iRobot expands Roomba 2-in-1 lineup with Combo j5+ and Combo i5+ 6 things you didn’t know Apple Homekit could do Features Robot Vacuums Smart Home There’s been no shortage of robot vacuum launches of late, and it seems Eufy isn’t going to miss out on the fun. Following hot on the heels of Ecovacs and Roborock, Eufy is releasing the X9 Pro Robovac on June 29. But unlike the competition, the X9 Pro will offer mopping and vacuuming skills for less than $1,000.
The X9 Pro will be available for just $899, yet offers many of the features found on products that sell for twice its price. This includes 5,500 Pa of suction, the ability to raise its mop a full 12mm when traveling on carpet, and a base station that can clean and dry the robot after each cycle. That’s an impressive list of features, especially when you consider the price tag.
Smart Home It seems like Ecovacs only just launched the Deebot T10 Omni, but the company is already gearing up for another massive product launch. On June 13, the Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni will hit the markets, bringing with it a bunch of new skills -- including the ability to raise its mop while traveling on carpet and an automated mop-washing station that uses hot water to prevent the buildup of bacteria.
The ability to lift its mopping plates 9mm off the ground is a big selling point of the T20 Omni. In fact, no other robot vacuum can lift their mop higher -- unless, of course, you count the j7+ Combo, which completely changes the orientation of its mophead to ensure it doesn’t brush along your carpet. But no matter how you cut it, the 9mm of travel distance for the mophead is a big improvement for the T20 Omni.
Smart Home Roborock, the brand responsible for some of the best robot vacuums on the market, has pulled back the curtain on the upcoming Roborock S7 Max Ultra. Available on June 11, the premium smart home gadget clocks in at $1,299, but brings serious automation to your home Much like its older sibling, the S8 Pro Ultra, the S7 Max Ultra functions as both a vacuum and mop. But aside from the ability to clean all surfaces of your home, the big selling point of the S7 Max Ultra is its “Ultra Dock,” which can handle the following maintenance tasks without any manual input: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
