Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features ElliQ is a smart home companion designed for your grandparents By Jon Bitner Close Smart home gadgets are often designed for folks with decent technical chops. Installing a smart thermostat, syncing a smart speaker with your other electronics, or simply checking in on your Ring doorbell all require the user to be reasonably comfortable with technology — and they all largely rely on a smartphone. That makes them less than ideal for older individuals who may not be keeping up with the latest tech trends.
Simple setup Two-way communication A little slow, a lot of limitations Is ElliQ worth adding to your loved one’s home? ElliQ solves this problem, as it’s a smart home companion designed specifically for grandparents and older individuals who don’t want to muck around with complex gizmos. Beyond offering an easy way to make calls, play music, or check the news, ElliQ is a bona fide companion that’s capable of interacting with people without any manual input. There’s no doubt it’s a compelling device, but it might not be the right fit for all seniors.
Here’s a closer look at the gadget to see if your parents, grandparents, or loved one would benefit from ElliQ’s company.
Ring helps you find your lost furry friend with the Ring Pet Tag Your Google smart home devices just got a lot less talkative Adorable smart home robot unveiled at CES 2023 could be a great addition to your family Simple setup Image used with permission by copyright holder ElliQ is a standalone device composed of several different pieces. Thankfully, there’s almost no setup involved. Right out of the box, you’ll find a large stand with built-in microphones, cameras, and a robotic figure that swivels and moves to give the impression that it’s alive. You’ll also find a detachable tablet, which can be used to interact with ElliQ remotely.
After plugging in the device, it’ll go through a quick startup process. This lasts just a few minutes, but it gives you and your loved one time to skim through the user manual (which features large print and is easy for everyone to read). Once setup is complete, you’re ready to start hanging out with your new companion.
Two-way communication Image used with permission by copyright holder ElliQ gives you access to a little bit of everything. You can ask it to show you an exercise video, launch a word scramble game, play music, or get a daily news update, and you can even have it give you a random fact or launch into a trivia challenge. It can also be used to call family members, although they’ll need to download a companion app on their smartphone.
 One of the coolest features of ElliQ, however, is that doesn’t just take commands — it can also give them.
Throughout the day, ElliQ might ask if you’d like to play a game or exercise if it detects you walking by. It’ll also interact with you first thing in the morning, which makes it feel like an actual companion. I’d often find myself stopping throughout the day to respond to ElliQ — and there was almost always something new and exciting for me to discover.
It’s also easy to know when ElliQ is listening to you, as a series of rings will light up on its face. And because there are so many cameras built into its base, ElliQ will even swivel and pan to make “eye contact” with you regardless of where you’re standing (or sitting) in the room.
A little slow, a lot of limitations Although ElliQ can do a lot, it’s also missing several important features found on other smart home items. For one, it doesn’t sync with Alexa , Google Home , or HomeKit. It also doesn’t support third-party apps, and the only thing you’ll be able to access on the included tablet is the built-in ElliQ software.
This is a bit of a double-edged sword. While it’s a bummer that this $250 gadget doesn’t support outside software, it also streamlines the experience. This means older individuals who might not be as tech-savvy as their children won’t have to worry about juggling dozens of different applications. Instead, ElliQ is built specifically for its own software, meaning there’s no way to get lost or navigate away from all its features.
It would be easy to overlook this omission if the ElliQ software was robust and responsive — but I found it to be a bit cumbersome and slow to execute verbal commands. The robot often takes long pauses before responding, and if it weren’t for the flashing lights on its face, you would think it was ignoring your conversation.
Is ElliQ worth adding to your loved one’s home? ElliQ isn’t without a few flaws, but it’s definitely worth a closer look. It’s especially appealing for individuals who live alone or in a retirement community, as it gives them “someone” to interact with throughout the day. But if they have a live-in caretaker or are constantly on the go, the usefulness of ElliQ starts to fade. And because ElliQ likes to interact with folks that walk by, it’s possible for it to interact with a caretaker or other family member by mistake.
The price tag is a significant barrier too, as not only will you pay $250 for ElliQ, but you’ll need to sign up for a membership that costs $30 per month when opting for an annual plan. Your purchase does, however, come with an unlimited warranty, along with installation support and the creation of a personalized account.
ElliQ won’t be for every individual, but if your loved one would benefit from more social interactions and wants an easy way to play games, call friends, listen to music, or check up on the news, then ElliQ is a good fit.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s how to throw a killer Halloween party with your smart home Why moving your smart home could be a nightmare Apple might launch a HomePod smart display in 2024 Fluid One gives you point-and-click control of your smart home, from your smartphone Is your smart home child-safe? Features Tech for Change The Food Fight Smart Home Smart home devices provide more than just convenient assistance -- they also help us complete tasks more efficiently and protect our homes. And now, they may actually be able to save you money on your homeowner's insurance.
Homeowners insurance protects or aids you if an incident happens. Yet the best days are when nothing goes wrong, and life is easy for everyone. Smart home devices can be your first line of defense against things that could cause your home harm.
Smart Home The final frontier: The bathroom. The mission: To boldly go where few smart home devices have gone before.
There are dozens of dedicated smart home devices for the kitchen and bedroom, and hundreds for the living room, but there's a distinct lack of smart devices for the bathroom. Why? Well, the answer is probably pretty obvious to most people.
Smart Home The interconnected nature of smart home technology has long been the subject of discussion, especially with regard to the "walled gardens" that sprang up around different platforms. Many opinion pieces (our own included) said that the smart home would never be truly "smart" until interoperability became commonplace. Today, a number of different companies came together to announce the launch of the Home Connectivity Alliance, an organization devoted to creating interoperable appliances within the home. This announcement might pale in comparison to CES 2022 launches of a massive new TV or a nifty new robot vacuum, but it's just as important.
The HCA is made up of American Standard Heating and Air Condition, Arcelik, The Electrolux Group, Haier, GE Appliances, Samsung Electronics, and Trane Residential. The presence of some of these companies comes as a surprise given their relatively low profile in the smart home market, but Samsung's membership is no surprise at all. Samsung has long been a proponent of Matter, another platform pushing for interconnectivity between devices.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
