Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features Everything announced at Amazon’s fall 2023 devices event By Derek Malcolm Close The leaves are starting to turn color, and you know what that means: Amazon’s annual fall Devices and Services event is upon us, bringing with it a veritable smorgasbord of product announcements, from new Fire TV streaming gadgets and Echo devices to Amazon smart home gear like Blink and Ring cameras , as well as Eero Wi-Fi routers and Alexa galore.
New Amazon Echo devices New Amazon Fire TV gear New Ring and Blink camera devices New Fire HD tablets for kids Amazon Eero Max 7 Wi-Fi router Taking place Wednesday, September 20, from Amazon’s shiny new HQ2 second headquarters in the Crystal City neighborhood of Arlington, Virginia, the invite-only event was heavy on themes of generative AI and its use in the home, specifically how it relates to its own products. Dave Limp, Amazon’s outgoing senior vice president of devices and services, delivered his last keynote, spilling the details on Alexa’s most significant AI upgrade yet.
 Limp revealed its all-new advanced large language model (LLM) , which will make the smart assistant more intuitive, conversational, and able to understand more complex nomenclature and nuances. And it’s all integrated with Amazon’s Alexa devices throughout your smart home.
Amazon says that most of the new products announced today will be available in the coming weeks and months. We were on the ground at HQ2 for the event, and here’s a roundup of everything Amazon announced.
The Amazon Echo Hub is almost the whole-home hub I’ve always wanted Wearing Alexa is weird, but Amazon’s new Echo Frames are shockingly comfy Amazon is giving you 6 months of MGM+ when you buy a new Fire TV New Amazon Echo devices Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends At last year’s fall event, Amazon gave the update treatment to the Echo Dot and Echo Dot with Clock , but this year Amazon has dropped a number of next-generation Echo devices on us.
Echo Show 8 Starting with the new Echo Show 8 , the Alexa-driven smart display boasts improved video calling and sound. It also now has custom-built spatial audio and room adaptation tech that uses room-sensing mics that listen to the acoustics of the room and adjust the playback to suit. A new Adaptive Content feature changes the home screen based on how close or far you are from the screen. As you approach and move away from it, the content changes size, making it easy to read based on your distance and offering different information features. Among the loads of upgrades that have been made to Alexa (more on this later), Alexa’s response time is also 40% faster and the conversation is much more natural. The Echo Show 8 will retail for $150. Preorders open today and devices will start shipping next month.
Echo Pop Kids Amazon also announced a new Echo speaker for kids, dubbed the Echo Pop Kids, and it’s the company’s smallest speaker yet. Using Alexa’s new LLM AI, the Echo Pop Kids promises to be fun for kids to talk to and ask questions. The cute speaker offers fun audiobooks, kid-friendly themes, and more, and will cost $50.
Echo Frames For the bespectacled among us, Amazon’s Alexa-powered Echo Frames smart glasses have gotten an update, too, with a smart new look and five new designs, including sunglasses, prescription-ready, or blue light lens options (with two designs from a partnership with eyewear makers Carrera). They also boast improved sound to their open-ear design that makes it easy to hear the world around you, especially in noisy environments. Speech processing tech is also improved, making it easier for Alexa to hear you, especially when it’s noisy or windy outside. Battery life has also improved. The new Echo Frames will cost $270.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Echo Hub Oh, and one more thing (wait, wrong company): Amazon also revamped and improved its wall-mounted smart home panel, the Echo Hub ( check out our hands-on with it from the event). The eight-inch touchscreen panel allows you to control all your smart home devices, security systems, and more from one location. The new Hub also features the Adaptive Content feature that uses infrared tech to detect when someone enters the room and then adjusts what’s on-screen to suit them by bringing up your customized panel with the widgets and features they use. The Hub supports Zigbee, Sidewalk, Thread, Bluetooth, and Matter, and is compatible with more than 140,000 connected cameras, lights, locks, plugs, thermostats, speakers, and more. Available later this year, it will retail for $180.
New Amazon Fire TV gear Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Fire TV Stick 4K and Fire TV Stick 4K Max Fans of Amazon’s stalwart streaming devices will be happy to hear that the company has finally dropped a couple of new-and-improved Fire TV Sticks and a cool new Fire TV soundbar to their lineup. First up is a new version of the Fire TV Stick 4K ($50), which Amazon says has gotten an improved processor — a 2GHz quad-core with 30% more power that will help apps perform better — as well as Wi-Fi 6 support for faster and more stable 4K streaming and support for Dolby Vision, HDR10, and HDR10+.
The Fire TV Stick 4K Max ($60) does all that and adds Dolby Atmos sound.
 It’s also getting Amazon’s Fire TV Ambient Experience, which has previously been available on its Omni QLED TVs and uses sensors to detect when people are in the room or not, triggering an experience that includes TV display art and other Alexa-powered widgets and custom information.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Fire TV Soundbar Perhaps the most fun of the Fire TV announcements was the addition of the new Fire TV Soundbar, a $120, Bluetooth-capable soundbar meant to work seamlessly with other Fire TV products and Fire TV-branded TVs. With two-channel sound and support for DTS Virtual:X and Dolby Audio, the 24-inch long soundbar is compact, easy to set up, and should deliver sound that is surely better than what your TV can produce.
Amazon’s common thread of its fall devices event also weaves through the Fire TV lineup, with its new LLM Alexa model making search and recommendations more intuitive and conversational. Using the remote, you can ask Alexa to find some movies, even drilling down to free ones and ones you haven’t seen. The response in the demo was lightning fast as it offered up suggestions.
Lastly, if you purchase a new Fire TV player or TV, Amazon is offering a promotion for U.S. customers that provices a free six-month subscription to MGM+.
 All of the new Fire TV devices are available now.
New Ring and Blink camera devices Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Amazon added a handful of new-and-improved devices to its Blink and Ring smart home security camera lineup.
 The Blink Outdoor 4 Floodlight Camera is a wall-mounted outdoor camera that delivers high-definition video whether it’s night or day. With two motion-triggered bright LED floodlights on each side of the camera, whatever gets caught in its gaze will surely be well-lit. Like many Blink outdoor cameras, the Outdoor 4 Floodlight Camera is battery-powered, but Amazon announced that for an additional $30, you can add a battery expansion pack. Preorders are already open for the Outdoor 4 Floodlight Camera, which will cost $160. Blink also announced a new Sync Module Pro, the hub to which all your Blink cameras and doorbells are connected. With stronger Wi-Fi for better and more reliable connectivity, the new module is also available to preorder now. It will cost $50, and we’ll see it early next year.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends From Ring, Amazon announced the Stick Up Cam Pro, an indoor and outdoor camera that Ring has added 3D motion detection radar sensors to so it can measure the distance of objects that come into its view. What users will be able to do with this is further customize the areas in the camera’s view that trigger motion detection in case you want to more closely monitor a specific spot. Of course, you can also still set the zones you do not want to be monitored. Some new audio tricks have also been added, including “Audio Plus,” a two-array microphone for better sound, and a security siren you can use to scare the hell out would-be intruders or porch pirates. The Ring Stick Up Cam Pro is also available for preorder and will be available in a battery/plug-in option ($180) and a solar-powered version ($210).
New Fire HD tablets for kids Amazon Two new Amazon Fire Kids tablets were announced at the fall devices event — the Fire HD Kids 10 and the Fire HD Kids 10 Pro.
 The former is aimed at kids from 3 to 7 years old and the latter targets kids a bit older, from six to 12. Both tablets have gotten some processor upgrades under the hood that Amazon says make them 25% faster. Both sport 10.1-inch 1080p displays, as well as 3GB of RAM, a 5-megapixel camera, and a battery that can last up to 13 hours. Both tablets have benefitted from Alexa’s new generative AI as well, with several new experiences integrated into a range of apps and activities that kids can participate in. The Music Maker app, for example, uses AI to help kids compose songs. The new Fire HD Kids tablets come with a 12-month subscription to Amazon’s Kids+ for free, so they can check out all the fun.
The Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids and HD 10 Kids Pro will start shipping next month, with prices starting from $190.
Amazon Eero Max 7 Wi-Fi router Amazon Amazon’s first stab at a Wi-Fi mesh system is fast, powerful, and expensive.
The Amazon Eero Max 7 is, according to Amazon, the “fastest, most powerful Eero yet,” and it should be for the $600 it’s going to cost for a single gateway (one-pack). A two-pack costs $1,150 and a three-pack runs $1,700. The Wi-Fi 7 system uses Amazon’s TrueMesh networking tech for faster performance, better protection from interfering networks, wireless speeds of up to 4.3Gbps, and wired speeds of up to 9.4Gbps. The Eero Max 7 is a tri-band mesh system that supports the 2.4, 5, and 6 GHz radio bands, and Amazon says that a single gateway can cover 2,500 square feet, with a three-pack covering up to 7,500 square feet. The Eero Max supports the Matter smart home standard and can connect to up to 200 devices. The new mesh Wi-Fi system will be available later this year, Amazon said.
Editors' Recommendations At Amazon’s annual device event, AI was everywhere — and nowhere I tried the Amazon Echo Show 8, a smart display that transforms when you get close Amazon debuts its first Fire TV soundbar and faster Fire TV sticks Amazon’s Echo family expands with an on-wall hub, smart glasses, and more Everything announced at Amazon’s 2022 Fall Event: new Echos, Fire TVs, Kindle Scribe, and more Audio / Video Amazon Features Audio / Video As part of its September 2022 devices event, Amazon has announced a new version of its Fire TV Cube streaming device, priced at $140. It's the first streamer we've seen that includes an HDMI input in addition to its HDMI output, letting it display content from devices like cable or satellite set-top boxes or Blu-ray players, while it controls those devices via Alexa or the included remote control. And speaking of remotes, Amazon has upgraded that device as well. The $35 Alexa Voice Remote Pro now includes backlighting and a remote control finder feature -- both of which are absent from the remote that Apple includes with its Apple TV 4K.
Oddly, Amazon decided the new Fire TV Cube will come with the standard Alexa Voice Remote -- not the Pro model -- for its $140 price, but you can add the $35 Voice Remote Pro when you order it.
Audio / Video We've already taken a look at what we hope to see from Amazon at its fall event — scheduled virtually for September 28. It's Amazon, so undoubtedly there will be a ton of smart home-type stuff at the ready.
But what about Amazon Fire TV? Are there new sticks on the horizon? Maybe a new Fire TV Cube? Smart Home Amazon didn't disappoint at its annual fall September event, where the company announced a slew of new devices. Notably, there was no refresh of its Echo smart speaker line, which makes sense given it was refreshed in a tremendous way at last year's event. Nevertheless, there was no shortage of exciting product announcements that covered the gamut.
New products mostly centered around the smart home, including an ambitious Alexa-powered robot called Astro, as well as a couple of neat smart displays that aim to help families stay connected with one another. There's a ton to unpack, but here is all the exciting news to come out from Amazon's September 2021 event.
Everything announced at the Amazon event Similar to last year's show, the Amazon event was a private event that was invite only. The livestream had plenty of announcements that covered Amazon and it various properties, like Ring and Blink. Unlike previous years, this Amazon event was strictly a smart home affair.
Amazon Smart Thermostat Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
