Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features Is it worth upgrading to the new Google Nest wired doorbell? By Keyan Riddick Close Video doorbell cameras are often one of the first external pieces of smart home tech consumers buy. Not only do they help keep an eye on our environment, but they double as communication devices for delivery drivers, guests, and others. Google recently released its second-generation Nest Doorbell (wired) and improved the Google Home app, but is it really worth upgrading if you have the base model? Google’s new doorbell Wired vs. battery New vs. old App importance Who should upgrade? Google’s new doorbell John Velasco / Digital Trends The new Google Nest Doorbell (wired) shares a similar design to the battery variant, although it is shorter since no batteries are required. It has a flat, matte design that comes in four colors to match nearly any home. To initiate a call, there’s a big button at the bottom, which is illuminated around the edge. There’s also an equally significant and prominent lens at the top of the doorbell.
Not only did Google change the design to be in line with its battery doorbell redesign, but it also added feature parity to the model. As a result, all the features introduced in 2021 are shown in this new wired version of the Nest Doorbell, including short-length local video storage, two-way audio, customizable activity zones, and facial, pet, and package recognition.
New Wyze Video Doorbell v2 offers microSD card slot, 2K resolution for just $40 Ring celebrates Halloween by adding spooky Quick Replies to its video doorbells Nanoleaf reveals four new Matter devices, including two smart lamps Wired vs. battery Speaking of the battery variant , there aren’t many differences between the two Nest Doorbells. Of course, the way they utilize power is different but feature-wise, the wired doorbell’s only advantage is continuous recording.
Continuous recording allows you to go back in time and see what has happened in front of your door, not just from when an event or alert occurred. Unfortunately, even though the Nest Doorbell (wired) has this ability, it’s still locked behind a $12/month Nest Aware Plus subscription. Consider that when choosing between the wired and battery version of the Nest Doorbell.
New vs. old Image used with permission by copyright holder The original Google Nest Doorbell (wired) was first made available in 2018 before rebranding last year. While the former version of the Nest Doorbell had plenty of features for its time, the new version does improve on some essential traits.
Instead of only doing photos for the last 3 hours of event activity, the Nest Doorbell (wired) 2nd generation retains short video clips. It can also record for up to an hour after a power failure. Last, more alert detection features are available for free instead of being locked behind a Nest Aware subscription. Plus, the new version is cheaper. The second-generation Nest Doorbell retails for $180 while the original first retails for $230, but it can often be found cheaper by any store that still carries it.
App importance While we won’t discuss the Google Home app redesign in great detail, Google talked extensively about it when it announced the new Nest Doorbell (wired). The new design puts a lot of emphasis on live camera views and gets ready for new Matter devices.
 It also basically becomes a remote for your camera view upfront. Google also stated that an automation tab would appear in the app soon, allowing for customization with if-this-then-that activities.
Who should upgrade? With all that said, is the Google Nest (wired) 2nd generation worth the switch or upgrade? From the original generation, yes, you should probably upgrade your video doorbell. You’ll get a more modern design, a better quality video, and more free features, which will have you considering if your Nest Aware subscription is worth it. For example, having video clips in your event history is much more helpful than just photos, and having battery backup is excellent, even if only for an hour.
Switching from the battery version to the wired version should only be considered if you want continuous recording and are already a Nest Aware Plus subscriber. Given those two answers, remember there are many other choices for smart video doorbells.
Editors' Recommendations Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update Ecobee takes on Ring, Arlo with its first smart doorbell camera New Yale Assure Lock 2 models get fingerprint scanner, support for Apple Home keys Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni boasts a new square design and improved vacuuming skills Features Google Home Security Video Doorbells Smart Home Nest Aware and Nest Aware Plus — the optional subscription services that allow for cloud-based recording on Google's Nest cameras — are getting more expensive in the U.S., U.K, and Australia.
Current subscribers are receiving emails alerting them to a 33% increase for Nest Aware, going from $6 a month or $60 a year to $8 a month or $80 a year. Nest Aware Plus — which doubles event video history from 30 to 60 days and adds 24/7 video history — is going from $12 a month or $120 a year to $15 a month or $150 a year. The new pricing already is in effect for new subscribers.
Smart Home Google Home is continuing to expand its roster, with Google today adding support for the Nest Cam Indoor (1st Gen). This allows you to manage all aspects of your camera, such as checking your notification history and accessing your camera feed.
There’s a bit of a catch, as support for Nest Cam Indoor is only available in Public Preview. To join Public Preview and gain early access to the feature, you’ll need to dive into the Settings on your Home app and select Join Public Preview. You’ll then get a prompt to update Public Preview -- accept this invitation, and you’ll see another prompt letting you know when you’re eligible to transfer your camera to Google Home.
Smart Home The Blink Outdoor Camera 4 is the newest addition to the Blink catalog, offering the same impressive battery life as its predecessor while bundling in better motion detection skills and a sleek, updated design. The camera is now available for $120, which includes a Sync Module 2.
One of the first things you’ll notice about the Blink Outdoor Camera 4 is its new look. It’s still a solid black square like the old Blink Outdoor Camera 3, but its camera has been repositioned from the center of the device to the top corner. It also looks a bit more streamlined than the outgoing model, with fewer accents and indentations across its front.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
