Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 6 smart home devices that can save you hundreds per year By Simon Sage Close The smart home marketplace has seen tremendous growth over the past few years. From smart thermostats and smart light bulbs to video doorbells and solar panels , there are plenty of ways to upgrade your home and give it a boost in functionality. Best of all, many of these smart home devices can save you money.
Smart thermostats Solar energy Smart plugs Energy monitors Water Food waste They might require a bit of an upfront investment, but there’s a look at all the smart home devices that can cut down your monthly energy bills and reduce your carbon footprint.
Smart thermostats Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart thermostats have been making their case for energy savings for years. By connecting to your phone, they can figure out if you’re home and if the heating or cooling should be turned on. Features continue to vary by model, but you’ll see some that will check in with utility providers and adjust your home’s climate control to take advantage of cheaper rates when available.
Nanoleaf reveals four new Matter devices, including two smart lamps 6 things you didn’t know Apple Homekit could do Break out of a rut with these useful summer-focused smart home routines We’ve already dug into some of the estimates on how much money a smart thermostat can save you.
 Though exact figures will vary based on climate, the size of your home, and how much time you spend in it, there’s a general consensus that a smart thermostat will earn back its cost in electrical savings over time.
One of the best options is the Amazon Smart Thermostat , which carries a budget-friendly price tag and can be easily programmed to alter its settings whether you’re home, away, or sleeping.
Solar energy Bill Mead / Unsplash It’s easy to see solar power panels as the original smart home device. With some up-front investment and intelligent controllers, your home energy grid can be optimized to the point where you’re barely paying a service provider.
We have a rundown on the variables to take into account when figuring out how much money you can save with solar panels.
 A lot will depend on the kind of rebates available in your jurisdiction, and how net metering is set up. The cost of solar panels has been dropping precipitously over the years, and they only stand to get cheaper, making a return on investment even sooner.
Smart plugs Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Smart plugs can zero in on electrical use for specific appliances throughout the house. This includes the added (and one could say greater) benefit of remote control for appliances that aren’t normally that smart. Smart plugs are easy to install, and companion mobile apps are very easy to use.
In our examination of smart plugs’ ability to reduce power usage , we came to the conclusion that you really need to use these on outlets with the heaviest demand. Small appliances have a nearly insignificant power draw, even when you put them all together.
The Emporia Smart Plug is a great option, thanks to its robust energy-tracking skills and low price tag. They’re also small enough that they don’t take up much space or block adjacent outlets.
Energy monitors Jenny McGrath / Digital Trends The bigger brothers to smart outlets are energy monitors. These attach right at the breaker level and can give you a holistic view of your home’s energy usage. This is a great way to keep tabs on the major power draws in the house, like your washing machine, air conditioner, laundry machine, and fridge.
These have a leg-up on smart outlets, since their energy demand may collectively only be a fraction of the hungrier appliances. The biggest downside is that smart energy systems like Sense require professional installation. Messing with your electrical mains isn’t for the faint of heart (and should absolutely be left to the professionals).
Water Rachio With droughts occurring with greater frequency, keeping tabs on your water usage isn’t just good for your bill, it’s good for the community sharing your supply. Smart water monitors are clever enough now to detect which faucets are turning on when, and to be able to detect leaks thanks to shifts in pressure at the source.
Beyond rationing water, water heating is worth keeping tabs on too. We’ve checked out Power X in the past , which claims it’s been able to reduce power consumption by 16%, and natural gas usage by 24% by equipping tanks with a smart monitor.
If you have a built-in sprinkler system, consider upgrading your controller to the Rachio 3.
 Not only is it easy to customize, but it accounts for local weather patterns to reduce your water waste. If you don’t have a sprinkler system, the Smart Hose Timer offers a bit of the same functionality.
Food waste Smart fridges are becoming a deluxe option for those wanting to go all-out with their kitchen. On top of baking in many smart home hub features into the fridge door, these appliances are also putting cameras on the inside. This can help owners check the contents while they’re at the grocery store to get only what they need. Down the line, this functionality could extend to ordering food when you need it.
You’re not likely to come out ahead if you’re looking solely at the monetary cost of each of these smart home devices versus the money saved from their efficiencies. Factor in the convenience and the improvement in quality of life, however, and things might start looking worthwhile.
If you strictly want devices that can save you money, look at smart thermostats. By all accounts, they’ll pay for themselves within about two years. Smart lighting is a good pick, too, especially the more budget-friendly brands; after all, LEDs last much longer than halogen or fluorescent bulbs and result in a much lower impact on the environment.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s how to throw a killer Halloween party with your smart home 6 HomeKit settings you should disable (or adjust) right now Why moving your smart home could be a nightmare GE Lighting launches Smart Hexagon Panels with support for Alexa and Google Home U.S. government to launch a new cybersecurity program for smart home devices in 2024 Features Smart Home SimpliSafe is already one of the best options when shopping for home security solutions, and it’s looking to become even more enticing with the launch of the new Smart Alarm Indoor Camera. Coinciding with the latest product is a new service -- 24/7 Live Guard Protection -- which allows agents to access a live feed of your property for enhanced response times.
The 24/7 Live Guard Protection service is only available on the Smart Alarm Indoor Camera. Previously, SimpliSafe agents could only review recorded footage after an alarm was triggered. Now, the team can monitor a live stream through the Smart Alarm Indoor Camera for improved response times. They can even interact with the intruder thanks to two-way audio, informing them that the police are on the way and that they’re being recorded.
Smart Home The list of smart locks that support Apple HomeKit isn’t quite as impressive as those of Google Home and Alexa, but Aqara has officially added one more to the list with the Aqara Smart Lock U100. Clocking in at $190 and now available on Amazon, the premium smart lock offers full support for Apple HomeKit -- along with tons of cool features that should position it as a top option for smart home enthusiasts.
As you’d expect, the Aqara U100 comes with a keypad that lets you enter a passcode to unlock the deadbolt. However, you’ll also find a fingerprint scanner that can hold up to 50 unique prints and the option to set up Apple home keys to unlock it with your Apple Watch or iPhone. Aqara also tossed in a physical key in case of emergencies.
Smart Home Smart assistants are an indispensable part of any smart home, making it easy to give hands-free commands and control a variety of gadgets. Google is looking to further streamline the performance of its smart assistant, with the expansion of chime alerts to cut down on how talkative your Google Nest gadgets are when responding to instructions.
For example, after asking Google to turn on a fan, you’ll now be able to hear a quick chime to confirm the assistant has heard your instructions. Previously, confirmation would come in the form of a short sentence, such as “OK, turning on your fan.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
