Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Get no-stress, hands-free cleaning with LG’s CordZero and save big By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with LG Electronics.
Hands-free and convenient cleaning, reimagined It features so much built-in What about the Total Tool Care kit? Cleaning, or more specifically vacuuming your home, is one of those tasks that can be tedious, and genuinely unenjoyable, and yet we all have to do it. It doesn’t matter whether you live in a studio apartment or a single-family home, cleaning is a must to get rid of dust, dirt, and other things you track inside. If you have pets or kids, then you’ll also be cleaning up fur, pet dander, and various messes — maybe even food or snack spills. With the right tools, like LG’s All-in-One Cordless Stick Vacuum, the entire process is faster and more convenient.
Available with an auto-empty dock, that both automatically charges the unit between uses and keeps the dustbin free and clear of debris, the CordZero Stick Vacuum is a real game-changer when it comes to keeping any space clean. The unique Kompressor technology compresses dirt and dust, fitting more in the dustbin, and allowing you to clean with less stopping, especially thanks to the extended battery life. Normally $849, you can save 30% when you use promo code VAC30 , bringing the price down to $594. Plus, you’ll receive a free Total Tool Care kit, which includes several add-ons for the vacuum like a mattress tool, flexible crevice tool — to get into hard-to-reach places — and extendable hose. That deal is only valid between May 26 and May 29, so don’t waste any time if you’re interested.
Meanwhile, let’s take a closer look at how LG’s CordZero reimagines hands-free and convenient cleaning.
Hands-free and convenient cleaning, reimagined Image used with permission by copyright holder With your average vacuum, cordless or not, you’re constantly moving back and forth between where you’re cleaning and where you’re emptying the dustbin. Moreover, you only have a limited time to clean before you have to charge again, or, if you’re using a corded vacuum, you’re limited by how far the electric cord can reach. Neither scenario is appealing. Emptying the dustbin can also create quite a mess, with debris falling all over the place and potentially even getting all over you and your clothes.
The LG CordZero changes all of that, every last bit. It automatically empties the dustbin for you when you dock it. All debris goes into an easily-swappable bag, inside the dock, which you toss when it’s full. Better yet, 120 minutes of runtime per charge offers virtually uninterrupted performance and use, so you can clean just about any size home or residence in one go.
The unit also quickly swaps between an extended wand-based vacuum with extra reach and a smaller handheld version for quick spot cleaning. Perhaps, more impressive, are all of the added features built into the unit which take your cleaning experience to a whole new level.
It features so much built-in Image used with permission by copyright holder For starters, the dock has hidden tool storage, where you can tuck away all of the accessories and add-ons so they’re not cluttering up your home. They stay neatly out of sight when not in use, and any power-based accessories are recharged when docked — just like the vacuum. The dock makes it an ideal system for small living spaces too, because it helps to keep everything organized and out of the way. It mounts to a wall and is easy to install, and you get all of the necessary mounting hardware with the vacuum, as well.
Built-in WiFi allows the vacuum to connect to the LG ThinQ app to unlock even more diagnostics. For example, you can track your cleaning history, see diagnostic messages and statuses about the vacuum, and connect with LG agents at a moment’s notice when you have a question or concern. It may not seem too important, but when you’re always busy, it’s easy to forget the last time you cleaned, and what areas you covered. The smart features ensure you can keep track of all that, and much more.
But even if you’re not into the smart features, you’ll benefit from the 5-step filtration system — which filters about 99.99% of dust and dirt — as well as the washable cyclone and filters. When you need to, you can disassemble the related filters, clean them out, and then reinstall them for the next time you clean. It’s easily maintainable and ensures you can keep your vacuum running in tip-top shape for longer.
What about the Total Tool Care kit? Image used with permission by copyright holder The current deal saves you 30% on the bundle that includes the CordZero All-in-One Cordless Vacuum and Auto Empty Dock, but for a limited time, it also nets you a free tool kit. Inside the kit are five separate tools, which help extend the use of your vacuum under various scenarios. You’ll get a mattress tool, hard dirt tool, multi-angle tool, flexible crevice tool, and an extendable hose to reach even further with the vacuum — like high up in ceiling corners or similarly out-of-reach areas.
Normally $849, the entire system is yours for $594 when you use promo code VAC30 , between May 26 and May 29. The Total Care Kit would be an additional $150, so altogether you’re saving about $450 with this deal. That’s phenomenal. You know what else is phenomenal? Having such a versatile cordless vacuum that keeps the entire cleaning process super convenient, by doing things like automatically emptying the dustbin for you and keeping the battery charged up and ready-to-go. Seriously, what are you waiting for? Grab this offer before it’s gone.
Editors' Recommendations The Best ECOVACS Prime Day deals: Hands-free cleaning and intelligent vacuum-mop combos Memorial Day sales knock 30% off these popular LG Air Conditioners This LG cordless vacuum is $250 off at Best Buy right now LG Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
