Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features Turns out, sleep mode in smart fans isn’t just a gimmick By Patrick Hearn Close I tried out the Dreo Smart Fan earlier this year. Among its many features is one called “sleep mode,” which purportedly lowers the volume of the fan without impacting performance. I didn’t think much of it; after all, how loud could a fan actually be? And then fall arrived.
A pleasant surprise The benefits of smart fans For those of you who aren’t familiar with weather in the Southern U.S., you can experience three seasons in a single day. It might start out as sweater weather in the morning, then be warm enough to swim in the afternoon — only to plummet overnight. It’s impossible for a thermostat to keep up.
Image used with permission by copyright holder On one night when it got a bit warmer than it should have been, I took that smart fan into the bedroom to try and cool things down. As it turns out, the fan was louder than I thought. So with nothing to lose, I opened the app and turned on sleep mode.
And then I had to make sure the fan was still working. I felt the airflow, but I couldn’t hear it unless I listened closely.
Your Google smart home devices just got a lot less talkative Are Echo Frames worth the $99, or are they just a gimmick? Why aren’t smart locks and video doorbells the same device? A pleasant surprise I can’t sleep with a lot of noise in the background.
White noise is fine, but a lot of smart fans need to be cranked up to higher speeds to produce noticeable airflow. Of course, higher settings also means more volume.
Out of the Dreo Smart Fan’s 12 speeds, I usually keep it on a nine or so. It’s reasonably quiet during the day, when there are other sounds in the house to drown it out. At night, when I’m lying in bed? It’s the only thing I can hear. When I activated Sleep Mode, there was a small pause, and then the fan began to quiet down without losing as much airflow.
It somehow found an equilibrium between air output and noise level. It also shut off all onboard LEDs. Again, they are useful for checking the status of the fan at a glance, but can seem as bright as the sun in a dark room.
According to documentation, Sleep Mode gradually decreases the output before shutting the fan down according to its timer. This also means the fan can be programmed to turn on at a specific time ; in fact, mine remains on Sleep Mode at nearly all times, but still produces airflow with lower noise levels.
The benefits of smart fans I’m always in search of ways to sleep better. I’m a bit of a workaholic, and I like to capitalize on time spent asleep. So many people are chronically sleep-deprived that it’s important to make those hours of snoozing count, and uncomfortable sleep does not a restful night make.
Smart fans can give you that little bit of extra cooling, but with more precise control. You can set it to turn on and off at certain times, which means no more crawling out of bed when you’ve found the perfect spot to switch on the fan. You can even control it with your voice if you don’t want to stare at your phone.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Some smart fans go beyond just cooling, too. Take the LG PuriCare AeroTower.
 While it provides extensive cooling capabilities, it also doubles as an air purifier. It keeps you comfortable and helps you breathe easier — literally.
In the grand scheme of the smart home, fans are a secondary investment. Most of them are still unifunctional, which is something we’ve talked extensively about in the past.
 Smart home devices need to serve more than one function, or they’ll go the way of single-use kitchen gadgets.
Then you have products like the AeroTower. While it’s a phenomenal device, it’s price is on the steep side for an air purifier and a fan. Right now, smart fans need to both come down a bit in price and expand their functionality before I can readily recommend them to the majority of people, but possessing truly useful features is a step in the right direction.
Editors' Recommendations Break out of a rut with these useful summer-focused smart home routines During spring cleaning, don’t forget smart home security Is a smart faucet worth it? The Sandman wars, or how accurate are sleep trackers? How does sleep tracking work? Features Health & Fitness Smart Home Researchers at the Beijing Institute of Nanoenergy and Nanosystems have developed a means of creating a wood-based triboelectric self-powered smart home sensor. Basically, it can harness the energy you use to press a button or step on the ground to send wireless signals around the house. With this system, a layer of wood has a thin copper film applied to the underside, which makes contact with a non-stick layer beneath when pressed, and generates an electric charge. That charge can then be used to power a sensor and emit a signal.
The strength of that charge depends on the overall surface area but can be high enough to communicate your position on a floor peppered with sensors below the surface. This use case alone presents some interesting options. Smart lights could light up as soon as your footsteps are sensed in the area, or falling down could trip multiple sensors and fire an emergency alert.
Smart Home Sleep is a commodity that many of us take for granted, but new parents are one group that would do anything to protect their precious rest. Babysense is here to save the day with its new Cloud smart mattress, the world’s first smart mattress for babies.
Babysense's new Cloud smart mattress boasts various features to help parents track and understand their baby’s sleep patterns. The mattress can follow the slightest micro-movements and environmental factors such as chest movements, rolling over, temperature, and humidity, or even when the little one needs to be changed. Parents can manage this information through the Babysense app, which is available through the Google Play Store or App Store.
Smart Home Today at CES 2022, Sleep Number, a leader in sleep health and research, has unveiled the latest entry in its smart bed lineup, the new 360 Smart Bed. With the assistance of A.I. and machine learning, this new smart bed has unique features that will help it monitor and improve your sleep health as you age.
Sleep is a significant part of our lives and vital to our general health. Knowing that, Sleep Number created it smart bed years ago to help track sleeping patterns. This new iteration of the smart bed has even more features to track sleep patterns, as well as predict issues and react when they arise.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
