Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features The smart home market might see big changes in 2023 By Jon Bitner Close The smart home market is arguably the strongest it’s ever been. Apple recently reintroduced the HomePod to rave reviews, Roborock is gearing up to launch its new lineup of powerful robot vacuums , and nearly half of U.S. households interact with a smart home gadget every month. That’s an impressive number, and it’s an increase from 2022 — meaning the market is trending in the right direction, and folks seem to be buying into the dream of an interconnected household.
Money trouble at Amazon and Google Apple surges to the front of the pack A restructured smart home marketplace This incredible market saturation means it’ll take a long time for the smart home market to completely vanish — and its death probably isn’t going to happen this year (or anytime soon). But the rest of 2023 will be an interesting year for the smart home industry, as Amazon and Google have run into financial issues with their smart home offerings, while Apple finally seems to be gaining momentum.
Money trouble at Amazon and Google Google Last November, it was reported that Alexa and its related devices were estimated to bring Amazon a hefty $10 billion in losses.
 It’s a similar story for Google, which has reorganized its Google Assistant division to streamline its performance and prioritize the development of Bard — Google’s entry in the AI arena. Even more interesting, Google hasn’t released a new piece of “smart home” hardware in almost two years.
It’s possible that Bard will somehow play a larger role in Google’s smart home plans, but right now things are a bit murky. Google has a history of pulling the plug on projects if they start to go south ( Stadia is just the latest example), and it’s highly unlikely Amazon will sit on its laurels as Alexa continues to lose the company cash.
How exactly that will play out in 2023 is unclear. What is clear, however, is that both Google and Amazon, two of the biggest players in the smart home market, are running into trouble and might need to pull back their smart home output until they develop a profitable plan.
Amazon did, however, reach out to Digital Trends to reaffirm the important role Alexa plays at the company.
“Any speculation that we’re less committed to Alexa and smart home is outright false,” said an Amazon spokesperson. “Alexa changed the way people interact with their homes. Today, there are more than 300 million smart home devices connected to Alexa and smart home engagement is up more than 30% in the last year. There’s plenty more invention to come.” Unfortunately, no specific details about these future plans were divulged — but here’s hoping some big news is planned to put Alexa fans at ease.
Apple surges to the front of the pack Zeke Jones/Digital Trends HomeKit is currently one of the least appealing smart home ecosystems on the market. That’s not to say it’s bad — in fact, HomeKit is remarkably easy to use. But because Apple likes to keep control of its platforms, HomeKit doesn’t support nearly as many products as Google Home or Amazon Alexa. Finding a smart lock , smart thermostat, smart bulbs, and smart plugs that work with Google Assistant or Amazon Alexa is simple, but doing the same for HomeKit is nothing short of a headache.
All of that could be changing in 2023, as the newly released HomePod is one of the best smart speakers on the market and offers full support for Matter.
 And since the interoperability platform is expected to see significant growth this year, HomeKit should slowly gain support for more products.
Apple also seems to be working on its first smart display , which would offer stiff competition for both Google and Amazon. Details are scarce about the product, but like everything Apple designs, expect it to be premium and packed with high-end features.
So while Google and Amazon are pulling back their smart home aspirations, Apple seems to be just getting started.
A restructured smart home marketplace Amazon However you slice it, 2023 has some big changes in store for your smart home. Whether this means reduced support from Google and Amazon, the emergence of Apple as a smart home powerhouse, or some combination of the two is up for debate. The smart home market isn’t going anywhere anytime soon, but a renewed focus on the profitable portions seems to be in the cards.
This could result in higher price tags, fewer products to choose from, or even the loss of voice controls on some devices — which requires costly servers and sees little monetary return for their manufacturers. Reports also indicate that Google Assistant won’t see as much investment in third-party products, which could restrict the number of devices that support the platform. Rolling AI technology like Bard into Google Assistant might give the platform a new layer of versatility, but right now it’s unclear if that’s what we should expect to see happen in the coming months (or at all).
With nearly half of U.S. households invested in smart home gadgets, there’s clearly money to be made in this space. It’s hard to beat the convenience of an interconnected home, and it’ll be interesting to see which companies make a push for your living room and which ones make an early exit throughout 2023.
Editors' Recommendations Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update New Yale Assure Lock 2 models get fingerprint scanner, support for Apple Home keys 6 HomeKit settings you should disable (or adjust) right now Why moving your smart home could be a nightmare Break out of a rut with these useful summer-focused smart home routines Amazon Apple Features Google Smart Home Cync by GE Lighting has officially launched the Dynamic Effects Smart Hexagon Panels, making it the latest member of the ever-growing Dynamic Effects family. Compatible with both Alexa and Google Home, the panels are designed to offer a highly programmable lighting solution for home theaters, game rooms, or anywhere else in your home that might benefit from a pop of color.
The Hexagon Panels clock in at $190 for a pack of 10 -- putting them above similar products from Govee and other lighting brands. However, the GE Lighting panels are well specced, featuring 16 million colors, six controllable zones within each hexagon, and directional control for music and light shows. If you don’t want to create your own light shows, you can choose from a list of pre-built options.
Smart Home The smart home marketplace has seen tremendous growth over the past few years. From smart thermostats and smart light bulbs to video doorbells and solar panels, there are plenty of ways to upgrade your home and give it a boost in functionality. Best of all, many of these smart home devices can save you money.
They might require a bit of an upfront investment, but there’s a look at all the smart home devices that can cut down your monthly energy bills and reduce your carbon footprint.
Smart thermostats Smart Home Smart home devices are only becoming more popular, and it seems they’ve now piqued the interest of the U.S. government. On July 18, the Biden administration announced a new cybersecurity certification and labeling program for smart devices that will help customers find devices that are “safer and less vulnerable to cyberattacks.” The so-called U.S. Cyber Trust Mark program is intended to get manufacturers thinking more carefully about the cybersecurity of their products and ensure they’re safe for the general public to have in their homes. It’s not expected to roll out until 2024, but the program would cover a wide range of products, including smart refrigerators, smart microwaves, smart televisions, smart thermostats, fitness trackers, and more.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
