Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features Smart ways to save on your utility bills during the holidays By Simon Sage Close Once the holidays swing into full gear, you’ll be pretty busy. There are plenty of meals to cook, visitors to entertain, and lights to fire up. Keeping your home utility bills under wraps during this time can be a bit of a challenge, but with a few changes to your smart home, you can squirrel away a few extra dollar bills and put them towards your gift shopping instead.
Update your smart thermostat schedule Switch to LED bulbs Find some new pressure cooking recipes Smarten up your hot water delivery Update your smart thermostat schedule Google / Google You may be home more often close to the holidays, so it’s worth going into your smart thermostat’s settings to manually set schedules based on when you’re planning on being in the house. Doing this allows the algorithm to maintain an efficient home heating plan even though you’re changing up the routine that it’s come to expect. Conversely, if you’re getting out of town for the holidays, it’s helpful to keep your smart thermostat informed so the furnace isn’t blasting while you’re away. Take a gander at some of the settings you’ll want to change.
Switch to LED bulbs Twinkly If your Christmas tree lights are old incandescent bulbs, you can save a bit of power by switching over to LEDs. Yeah, you might be attached to the set you’ve been using since you were a kid, but LEDs use about a 10th of the power of incandescent bulbs. It’s worth the upgrade. While you’re at it, make them smart bulbs.
 That way you can ensure the tree’s only turning on once it’s properly dark out and everyone’s still awake to enjoy them.
Can your smart home save you money on homeowners insurance? 5 creative ways to repurpose your old and unused tech Don’t toss out your old smart home tech! Regift it Go the extra mile and include your holiday lights in your bedtime routine for Google Home or Apple HomeKit so they turn off along with your other smart lights.
 As an added bonus, smart lights are able to animate with some pretty flashy holiday colors, and can often sync up with holiday music in real time. Trust us, smart lights will put your old bulbs’ twinkle mode to shame. There are a bunch of artificial Christmas trees with smart lights built in if you want a fully integrated experience. The same conveniences and electrical savings can be applied to outdoor lights if you’ve got a big installation out front.
Find some new pressure cooking recipes Instant Pot Leaving the oven running for hours on end for big family meals is going to be a big part of your next energy bill. A little bit of research and investment in an Instant Pot can help you cook delicious meals while using far less power. These are great for dense food, and multiple cooking modes give you plenty of versatility. The slow cooker mode is useful for roasts. Some models have air fryers built in that can produce some great pastries. The main thing is making sure you have a model with a big enough capacity to feed everyone coming over for Christmas dinner. If you don’t have one yet, here’s a rundown of the best Instant Pots available.
 Even beyond the holidays, it’s worth having one around.
Smarten up your hot water delivery If you’re hosting more company over the holidays, odds are you’re going to be using a lot more hot water. The efficiency and type of water heater will determine your utility bills here, but a smart management system can help maximize those savings. These can build predictions of how much hot water you need during the day so that your tank is only being preheated as much as necessary. Even tankless water heaters can benefit from some added intelligence.
Hopefully, these smart home tips will help you keep your budget under control over the holidays, and maybe even through the rest of the year.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s how to throw a killer Halloween party with your smart home Command your worries away: 7 ways your smart home can help fight stress How your smart home can enhance your holiday party Nest Renew brings renewable energy closer to your smart thermostat 5 ways geofencing makes your smart home smarter Features Smart Home Do you sleep well at night? According to a lot of studies, roughly half of all Americans feel sleepy during the day -- a firm indicator that their nightly sleep isn't quite as restorative as it should be. Whether it be stress (due to high electric bills, maybe?) or just a lack of comfort, poor sleep quality is nearing alarming levels.
Temperature plays a large role in that. In fact, reaching a proper room temperature is one of the most important factors for achieving high-quality, restful sleep. According to SleepFoundation.org, the ideal temperature for the bedroom is around 65 degrees.
Smart Home Springtime brings with it fresh life, blooming flowers, and in some parts of the country, incredible storms. The old expression that March comes in like a lion and goes out like a lamb holds particularly true in the Southeast and Midwest, where spring storms are accompanied by damaging, dangerous tornadoes.
Meteorological science has advanced in amazing ways. People now have a much better idea when dangerous weather is on the way, but only if they pay attention -- and even then, it can sometimes be hard to hear the alert if there's a lot going on in the home.
Smart Home A smart display is more than just a way to check the weather, read up on the news, or control your smart home. It can provide you with quick information about specific subjects and streamline your day. Given how people are continuing to work from home, smart displays present themselves as the perfect deskside companion. Here are a few tips and tricks that can help your smart display be more than a simple tool -- it can be the centerpiece of your work-from-home experience.
Keep tabs on your schedule on the go Many people think working from home is a more laid-back schedule, but it often involves juggling more tasks than you're used to. As a result, it can be tough to stay on top of your schedule, especially on particularly busy days. Your smart display can show your schedule at a glance and even alert you to upcoming meetings.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
