Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features The truth about outdoor smart home gadgets and extreme cold By Erin Lawrence Close Electronics and smart home gadgets bring convenience and automation to your home and often need minimal maintenance, save for the odd firmware update — that is, unless you live in a place that gets an actual winter. While most shoppers are eager to set up and play with their new toys, they mainly worry about getting it with that luxurious same-day shipping and don’t think ahead to how that new device will operate when the weather turns harsh. The truth is, if you live somewhere it gets bitterly, extremely cold, your smart devices like wireless cameras , lights, and other components will likely stop working.
Pay attention to temperature range What happens to smart home devices when it’s too cold? Choose hardwired over battery in cold environments What to do if your device is frozen Pay attention to temperature range When shopping for an outdoor device, we usually pay attention to the IP rating.
 Many people see this number and assume it means their gadget is impervious to any kind of weather. That might be true to some extent, but the IP rating doesn’t extend to extreme heat or extreme cold. IP ratings only rate for water and/or dust ingression, not for how effectively cold or heat can penetrate. To know how a device might be able to withstand cold winters or hot summers, you need to check the temperature operating range.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Most outdoor devices will provide this operating range somewhere in the specs. If you don’t see them, that’s a bit of a red flag. It might be worth reaching out to customer service or checking user reviews to see how they’ve held up for others in real-world conditions.
Many outdoor cameras, like for example the Ring Spotlight Cam Battery , state they can operate from about -5 degrees F to 122 degrees F, which is a pretty decent range. However, if you live in a place where temperatures below -5 are common in winter, you may run into problems.
Here’s how to throw a killer Halloween party with your smart home Blink Outdoor Camera 4 launches with Person Detection, new design, 2-year battery life Are smart kitchen gadgets worth it? What happens to smart home devices when it’s too cold? If you do experience extreme winter temperatures, your device will likely shut down and stop working, at least for a while. Electronic components made for the outdoors, while durable for the most part, do have limitations. We’ve experienced a smart outdoor camera for example that quit working once the temperature went below -5 degrees. While that’s frustrating, it’s not common, and it’s not the end of the world. Often once temperatures rise again, the device will thaw and automatically reconnect to the network. In some cases, you might have to perform a reset or a Wi-Fi reconnection. It’s not fun having to go outside in a foot of snow and subzero temperatures to mash that reset button, but it’s a small price to pay for the device to continue to provide reliable service the other 48 weeks of the year.
Choose hardwired over battery in cold environments Extreme cold is terrible for rechargeable batteries, particularly some lithium-ion cells, similar to what you’d find in Ring devices , for example. “Really” cold weather can make it difficult for the battery to hold a charge, and “extreme” temperatures can stop them functioning altogether, essentially freezing them solid.
There’s not much you can do about Mother Nature, but you can take some preventative action by choosing hardwired options if you do live in a place where extreme temps are the norm. It’s no guarantee either, but eliminating batteries from the equation can help keep your systems from going offline.
What to do if your device is frozen If you do end up with a frozen camera, smart light , or other smart home gadget, there are a few things you can do. First, simply wait for temperatures to warm up. Most of these devices, as noted earlier, will thaw and come back online on their own. If you have need for outdoor light or surveillance and need to speed this process up, you can: Take your device indoors.
Allowing the battery or components to return to normal temperature levels will help restore the device. You can simply remove the battery and bring that inside until it warms up, or remove the entire device so that all of those electronic components can normalize.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Recharge the battery fully.
This step helps particularly if you’re using a system that uses a solar panel to recharge your battery. Try manually recharging your battery fully instead of letting it battle the elements. Let it get a full charge and then return it to the great outdoors, where you should have bought it some time.
Consider insulation.
While most of these outdoor-specific smart home gadgets are indeed built to manage many extreme environments, sometimes cold weather pushes the envelope. There are plenty of chatrooms filled with advice for wrapping your device in special insulation to give it some additional protection. Some users have reported that pipe or duct wrap insulation secured with foil tape can slow cold penetration, but this will likely not stop it completely — you may just be buying some time. Be sure to read up on this method if this is a recommended option for your particular camera or device (and don’t forget to remove it when things warm up, lest you create an overheating issue come spring).
Extreme temperatures can affect all kinds of smart home gadgets, and while it may be frustrating to have your devices knocked out by the cold, just remember, it’s not unexpected. In our tests, we’ve temporarily lost power on a couple of Ring outdoor cameras when temperatures plunged to -30 degrees, while at the same time the Philips Hue Outdoor smart lights installed at the same location kept right on shining. Win some, lose some.
Editors' Recommendations The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments Google Home adds support for Nest Cam Indoor Leviton’s new outdoor smart plug is the first with Matter support Why moving your smart home could be a nightmare Break out of a rut with these useful summer-focused smart home routines Features Smart Home Cync by GE Lighting has officially launched the Dynamic Effects Smart Hexagon Panels, making it the latest member of the ever-growing Dynamic Effects family. Compatible with both Alexa and Google Home, the panels are designed to offer a highly programmable lighting solution for home theaters, game rooms, or anywhere else in your home that might benefit from a pop of color.
The Hexagon Panels clock in at $190 for a pack of 10 -- putting them above similar products from Govee and other lighting brands. However, the GE Lighting panels are well specced, featuring 16 million colors, six controllable zones within each hexagon, and directional control for music and light shows. If you don’t want to create your own light shows, you can choose from a list of pre-built options.
Smart Home The smart home marketplace has seen tremendous growth over the past few years. From smart thermostats and smart light bulbs to video doorbells and solar panels, there are plenty of ways to upgrade your home and give it a boost in functionality. Best of all, many of these smart home devices can save you money.
They might require a bit of an upfront investment, but there’s a look at all the smart home devices that can cut down your monthly energy bills and reduce your carbon footprint.
Smart thermostats Smart Home Smart home devices are only becoming more popular, and it seems they’ve now piqued the interest of the U.S. government. On July 18, the Biden administration announced a new cybersecurity certification and labeling program for smart devices that will help customers find devices that are “safer and less vulnerable to cyberattacks.” The so-called U.S. Cyber Trust Mark program is intended to get manufacturers thinking more carefully about the cybersecurity of their products and ensure they’re safe for the general public to have in their homes. It’s not expected to roll out until 2024, but the program would cover a wide range of products, including smart refrigerators, smart microwaves, smart televisions, smart thermostats, fitness trackers, and more.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
