Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features This is how much it costs to run a smart garden, and how much it can save By Patrick Hearn Close I’ve talked a lot about smart gardens before. They’re one of my favorite smart home devices overall, especially with the rising cost of fresh produce and with winter just around the corner. I like fresh ingredients, and it’s often less expensive to grow them at home than it is to go to the store and buy them.
Smart gardens can be expensive Smart gardens have consistent yields Utility costs contribute more than you might expect Plants cost money, too Does a smart garden actually save money? On the other hand, it’s not always easy for someone to do that if they live in an apartment. Balconies don’t always get enough sunlight (as my failed experiment to grow potatoes this year can attest), and the available yield is small.
Smart gardens offer an easy way to circumvent these woes by controlling the light output and watering schedule and taking the guesswork out of the process.
But are they really worthwhile, or do you end up spending more money in the long run? I sat down to take a look at the actual costs of a smart garden, from the initial purchase cost to the day-to-day operating costs.
Ecobee takes on Ring, Arlo with its first smart doorbell camera Nanoleaf reveals four new Matter devices, including two smart lamps This $4,000 smart door comes packing a Ring video doorbell and Yale smart lock Bear with me. Many of these numbers are rough estimates, and some are simplified to make the calculations easier to follow, but the end result should be a decent estimate of the overall cost of a smart garden.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart gardens can be expensive For this piece, I wanted to look at a garden that could produce a truly decent yield. While I adore my AeroGarden , it’s not quite enough for more than one or two salads for my wife and me. Instead, I chose to use the Gardyn 3.0 as my starting point.
The Gardyn 3.0 is $999 retail. That’s a lot of money for a smart device, but it can grow 30 plants at once and includes 30 yCubesn(Gardyn’s version of a plant starter pod) with purchase.
At $4 per bagged salad, you’re looking at the equivalent of 250 meals right away. The Gardyn might pay for itself in the long run, but you’re going to feel the expense upfront.
Smart gardens have consistent yields If you’re following the growing steps, you should see anywhere from 8 to 10 pounds of produce per month from the Gardyn 3.0. It can grow a wide variety of different plants, so the value of that produce might vary wildly. Add a few extra dollars to any calculations, though; since the Gardyn grows without pesticides, it could practically be called organic.
Image used with permission by copyright holder With that in mind, let’s do a bit of math. According to FoodCoop.com, a pound of organic iceberg lettuce is roughly $3.91. At a generous estimate of 10 pounds of produce each month, the Gardyn produces $39 worth of food. At that rate, it would take just over two years to pay for itself — but wait, we can’t forget the cost of electricity and water.
Utility costs contribute more than you might expect The Gardyn produces so much produce thanks to a combination of automatic watering and two powerful LED grow lights. According to Gardyn’s FAQ page, these lights use about 75 watts per second on average. Following the recommended schedule, you’re looking at about 54kWh per month of energy use.
The average rate of electricity in my home state is about $0.1226 per kilowatt hour, which translates to about $6.62 per month in electrical costs just to run the Gardyn.
You also need to factor in water costs. The Gardyn has a 6-gallon tank, and though it does use 95% less water than similar systems, it will need to be topped off about once per week when the plants are mature. We’ll say 20 gallons of water per month.
Rise Gardens Water costs in the U.S are about $1.50 per 1,000 gallons. The cost of 20 gallons is minuscule and hardly worth consideration.
Plants cost money, too The Gardyn 3.0 includes 30 plants out of the box, and the company says they should last about three months before they stop yielding and need to be replaced. The yCube pods cost about $5 each, so a full replacement would cost $150. However, Gardyn offers a membership that provides users with 10 free yCubes per month.
That membership is $34 per month for one year or $29 per month for two years. If you pay strictly monthly, it’s $39. We’ll assume a two-year membership.
As I established before, the Gardyn will yield around $39 of value each month. With a $29 membership fee and $6 in utilities, that’s only $4 in savings.
That said, it’s entirely possible to make your own yCubes and grow them in the Gardyn. There’s an entire thriving community of users that do exactly that.
Does a smart garden actually save money? Truthfully, not really. The amount of time it would take to pay off the initial cost of a smart garden means you would need to use it for several years before you saw any return on investment, at which time the day-to-day maintenance costs and replacement parts would likely destroy any real savings.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart gardens shouldn’t be thought of as a way to save money, but as an alternative way to grow plants for yourself. The produce you buy in-store isn’t going to be as high quality as what you grow at home, and you’ll get better taste, color, and crunch from a smart garden yield.
It’s definitely a luxury item. If you’re trying to cut out all unnecessary expenses, a smart garden isn’t the way to go (although growing your own produce in a backyard garden might help cut costs). Instead, think of a smart garden as a fun way to grow plants indoors and add a few more greens to your diet, rather than a self-sustaining system for growing your own food.
Editors' Recommendations Emporia resolves issue with Smart Plugs that spurred recall Here’s how to throw a killer Halloween party with your smart home Leviton’s new outdoor smart plug is the first with Matter support Are smart kitchen gadgets worth it? Why moving your smart home could be a nightmare Features Smart Home Glorious summertime. Those three to four months of the year when the beach is a constant destination, the kids are free to roam, and your residence becomes the key spot for all your friends and family to hang out. And what better way to amaze your familiars, and build security and efficiency into your life, than with a range of smart home automations? Whether you're building routines with Alexa and Google Assistant or creating scenes with Apple HomeKit, these if-this-then-that commands are designed to group and simplify a set of smart home actions into one executable -- such as a voice prompt, time of day, or intuitive geofencing that automatically adjusts your thermostat when you leave for work.
Smart Home Cync by GE Lighting has officially launched the Dynamic Effects Smart Hexagon Panels, making it the latest member of the ever-growing Dynamic Effects family. Compatible with both Alexa and Google Home, the panels are designed to offer a highly programmable lighting solution for home theaters, game rooms, or anywhere else in your home that might benefit from a pop of color.
The Hexagon Panels clock in at $190 for a pack of 10 -- putting them above similar products from Govee and other lighting brands. However, the GE Lighting panels are well specced, featuring 16 million colors, six controllable zones within each hexagon, and directional control for music and light shows. If you don’t want to create your own light shows, you can choose from a list of pre-built options.
Smart Home The smart home marketplace has seen tremendous growth over the past few years. From smart thermostats and smart light bulbs to video doorbells and solar panels, there are plenty of ways to upgrade your home and give it a boost in functionality. Best of all, many of these smart home devices can save you money.
They might require a bit of an upfront investment, but there’s a look at all the smart home devices that can cut down your monthly energy bills and reduce your carbon footprint.
Smart thermostats Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
