Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Features Why moving your smart home could be a nightmare By Erin Lawrence Close The smart home concept is a great thing. It allows us to automate things from lighting to temperature, make video calls while we prepare dinner, and get answers to questions instantly. In its current state, it has one fatal flaw, however: The smart home is not really meant to move.
What to know about moving smart home gadgets Use of adhesives in smart home products What to do about lost QR codes? What to do with permanent smart home fixtures? Should you leave smart home gear as part of the house? What about privacy? How can you wipe data? Moving your smart home In fact, you might want to leave behind the majority of your smart home gadgets when selling your property.
What to know about moving smart home gadgets Think about it: Some of us have literally dozens of devices including lights, thermostats, robot vacuums, speakers, security cameras, wireless alarm systems, and more. How would you go about removing, relocating, and reconnecting all those devices to Wi-Fi in a new house if you ever need to move? On the surface, it sounds daunting.
Ring celebrates Halloween by adding spooky Quick Replies to its video doorbells Here’s how to throw a killer Halloween party with your smart home GE Lighting launches Smart Hexagon Panels with support for Alexa and Google Home Use of adhesives in smart home products Some smart lighting, in particular LED strip lighting like that from LIFX , Philips Hue and Govee , attaches with adhesive tape to the underside of cabinets, the back of TVs, headboards, and even bathroom mirrors. Does that mean you can’t take it with you? It’s possible to remove adhesive with the right product — Goo Gone comes to mind — but it could leave a mess behind that requires painting, patching, or touch-ups and only adds to your moving checklist. In the past, I’ve used 3M Command adhesive strips as opposed to the sticky tape included on smart lights to stick them into place, and this allows easy relocation if necessary.
So while taking your adhesive-backed lights with you this time might result in some minor repairs, when you move to your new place, consider less permanent installations (including staple-style clips), particularly if you’re renting. To the manufacturers of smart home products: How about some less permanent installation options instead of gluey tape? Philips Hue thankfully offers clips for installing some of its smart strip lighting, while Nanoleaf was one of the original smart light manufacturers that shipped its flat LED light panels with Command Adhesives in the package, so props to them.
What to do about lost QR codes? Image used with permission by copyright holder Some smart home devices employ scannable QR codes found in the manual or on the package to connect them to an app; think Apple HomeKit devices in particular. To use these devices and add them to the necessary apps, you scan a photo of the QR code and then the app automatically adds the device. What happens when you lose that paper code? In some cases, the code is also reprinted on the rear or bottom of the device. And fear not: There’s usually a way to manually add the device using a serial number or Near Field Communication ( NFC ) if that paper becomes hopelessly lost.
Use your move (or just the initiative after reading this article!) to create a binder or accordion folder where you can stash all your smart home manuals, warranty cards — and those all-important QR codes. Losing track of them could cost you precious time when it comes to reinstalling them in your new home.
What to do with permanent smart home fixtures? What do you do about smart home devices that are installed more permanently? Things like a Nest Thermostat , Ring Video Doorbell , or even a Samsung Frame TV ? In most cases, there’s no expectation that you leave a TV behind, though if it’s big and unwieldy enough, you might want to see if the new owners are interested in negotiating its inclusion in a property sale. You will need to leave a thermostat, but there’s no rules that say it has to be a $300 smart one.
Realtors are a great resource here. Because some buyers may have an expectation that what they see in an open house or showing stays in the home, you might ask your realtor to spell out that certain smart home gadgets won’t be left behind, noting they would be replaced with more basic versions.
Should you leave smart home gear as part of the house? For the most part, things like light bulbs are considered part of the property in the sale of a home. But what about smart light bulbs? Smart light bulbs can be expensive; I have about a dozen smart bulbs throughout my home, and at a cost of about $20 to $60 (plus a hub in some cases), it’s not feasible to simply abandon them, particularly if it will then cost you hundreds of dollars to replace them.
LIFX Meanwhile, what are you supposed to do for the new owners? Invite them into your Philips Hue app? That’s not really practical. What is practical is removing all your smart light bulbs to bring with you and replacing them with regular light bulbs.
What if your smart lights are fixtures in the home? We installed a dozen Liteline Skye OnCloud connected downlights in our home following a renovation. Each is Wi-Fi-connected and hardwired into the home, so there’s no taking those with us. But what will the new owners do? As I see it, I have a few options: Leave them a letter that explains how to use and connect these lights to their own Wi-Fi network and which app to use (Liteline Skye uses the Wiz smart home portal), or I can consider leaving my Wi-Fi Router, and invite them to be an administrator in the Wiz app, then let them take over the entire system. Neither is ideal since I’d rather not abandon a pricey, powerful router, but it will be tedious for the new owners to reconnect each light to their own Wi-Fi after they move in.
You could also check the smartphone app for the smart home gadgets you’re leaving behind and see if they offer a reset option. Many devices, including most of those from Ring, allow new owners to start their own connections once they’ve been removed from your account.
It might require a bit of communication between you and your realtor, but safely removing your data and letting the new homeowner sync with your existing smart home gadgets might be more enticing than uninstalling and reinstalling them at a new location.
What about privacy? How can you wipe data? If you are considering leaving a Wi-Fi router behind, you’ll probably find it comforting to know routers store very little data, mainly because they don’t have much storage, so it could be feasible (and easy) to leave a router for new owners — keeping any smart home gadgets you do leave behind connected and happy. If you are considering leaving some smart home devices behind, make sure you take steps to delete each device from your own accounts and perform a hard reset before reconnecting them for the new owners.
Moving your smart home Once you’ve decided what to bring with you — and it’s been safely transported to your new digs — how do you begin re-establishing your smart home? You’re probably picturing a massive nightmare involving remembering every account’s email and password, and the need to reinstall every single device. Fortunately, this isn’t necessary.
The absolute easiest thing to do is simply to bring your old router. You should be able to reconnect it to power and service at your new home, and it should simply reconnect to all your original devices.
If you end up with a new service provider and a new router, what then? Just give your new router the same name and use the same password as the old router and your devices should recognize it.
Of course, you could also use this opportunity to clean up your smart home by starting fresh. Invest in a new Wi-Fi router, new lights, and that robot vacuum you’ve always wanted. If you’re not up for that, a little planning means you can take your smart home with you with minimal effort.
Editors' Recommendations New Wyze Video Doorbell v2 offers microSD card slot, 2K resolution for just $40 Ecobee takes on Ring, Arlo with its first smart doorbell camera Break out of a rut with these useful summer-focused smart home routines 6 smart home devices that can save you hundreds per year U.S. government to launch a new cybersecurity program for smart home devices in 2024 Features Home Security Smart Lights Video Doorbells Smart Home SimpliSafe is already one of the best options when shopping for home security solutions, and it’s looking to become even more enticing with the launch of the new Smart Alarm Indoor Camera. Coinciding with the latest product is a new service -- 24/7 Live Guard Protection -- which allows agents to access a live feed of your property for enhanced response times.
The 24/7 Live Guard Protection service is only available on the Smart Alarm Indoor Camera. Previously, SimpliSafe agents could only review recorded footage after an alarm was triggered. Now, the team can monitor a live stream through the Smart Alarm Indoor Camera for improved response times. They can even interact with the intruder thanks to two-way audio, informing them that the police are on the way and that they’re being recorded.
Smart Home The list of smart locks that support Apple HomeKit isn’t quite as impressive as those of Google Home and Alexa, but Aqara has officially added one more to the list with the Aqara Smart Lock U100. Clocking in at $190 and now available on Amazon, the premium smart lock offers full support for Apple HomeKit -- along with tons of cool features that should position it as a top option for smart home enthusiasts.
As you’d expect, the Aqara U100 comes with a keypad that lets you enter a passcode to unlock the deadbolt. However, you’ll also find a fingerprint scanner that can hold up to 50 unique prints and the option to set up Apple home keys to unlock it with your Apple Watch or iPhone. Aqara also tossed in a physical key in case of emergencies.
Smart Home Smart assistants are an indispensable part of any smart home, making it easy to give hands-free commands and control a variety of gadgets. Google is looking to further streamline the performance of its smart assistant, with the expansion of chime alerts to cut down on how talkative your Google Nest gadgets are when responding to instructions.
For example, after asking Google to turn on a fan, you’ll now be able to hear a quick chime to confirm the assistant has heard your instructions. Previously, confirmation would come in the form of a short sentence, such as “OK, turning on your fan.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
