Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features Why you should be using Google Home Routines By Erin Lawrence Close If you’ve finally jumped into the smart home world by picking up a Google Nest Hub or other Google Home-compatible gadgets, you might think setting up Routines is something to postpone until you become an expert. After all, coming to terms with your new smart home might take a few days — and Routines can often sound like a complex feature that’s best saved for a rainy day.
What are Google Home Routines? What can Routines do and should you use them? What can I control with Routines? Are Google Routines easy to set up? How do I customize the Good Morning Routine? However, that couldn’t be further from the truth. Routines are shockingly easy to use, and they allow you to harness the full power of your smart home. Here’s a look at what Routines are, how they work, and why you’ll want to start using them as soon as possible.
What are Google Home Routines? Image used with permission by copyright holder Routines are simply a number of commands and skills grouped together and triggered by a single command. There are many smart plugs, light bulbs, spotlights, speakers, and thermostats that are Google Home-enabled. By creating a Routine, you can activate or interact with these devices with a simple voice command or have them launch automatically when a defined event (like sunset or a door opening) occurs.
Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update Self-emptying robot vacuums: Do you really need one? New Yale Assure Lock 2 models get fingerprint scanner, support for Apple Home keys In other words, Routines let you activate (or deactivate) a number of smart home products at once. This makes them incredibly powerful — and they only become more beneficial as the number of smart home gadgets in your house continues to grow.
What can Routines do and should you use them? Google Routines can save you time and effort by having a number of commands launch simultaneously, tied to a single action. There are some pre-defined routines on the Google Home app. They include Bedtime, Commuting Home, Commuting to Work, Good Morning, and others. Google has added “Starters” (the action or actions that launch the routine) and “Actions,” the thing that happens when you launch a Starter.
The Good Morning Routine is set to launch when you say, “Good morning,” “Tell me about my day,” or “I’m up.” When you say one of those phrases to your Google Assistant , it triggers five actions: It will tell you about the local weather, tell you what’s on your calendar for the day, give you any reminders you’ve set, tell you if your phone battery is low, and play the news.
Instead of asking your Google Assistant five different questions, you simply have to say one of the phrases. You can also change the phrases, change the Actions that launch when you use the phrases, or have the whole thing launch at a specific time (more on that below).
What can I control with Routines? Google As well as getting updates and information from your Google Assistant, you can also set up Routines that include any Google Home-compatible smart devices, plugs, or lights. Assuming you have the necessary Google Home-compatible devices, you could create a Routine that triggers when you say “soft jazz.” The Routine could include playing a soft jazz playlist on Spotify while turning on a specific light, dimming it to low, and setting the bulb’s color to light blue.
You could have a morning Routine that turns your light on at 6:45 a.m., starts to play a wake-me-up track, and turns on the coffee maker.
Another option is to create an “emergency” Routine that flashes lights and turns on a siren noise. You can activate that by voice command or have it trigger if a door or window sensor is tripped during certain hours. Tech-savvy parents could set up a Routine to flash a smart light in their bedroom when a window or door is opened after bedtime to keep tabs on when their teenagers arrive home.
Are Google Routines easy to set up? Nest Near the top of the screen in your Google Home app is a purple button called Routines.
 Clicking that brings you to the Routines screen, which will allow you to start building your options. You can choose one of Google’s preset Routines and go with the actions that will follow, or you can customize any of them to your own preferences. For a more in-depth how-to, read how to set up Google Home Routines.
The basics are easy enough for anyone to handle, but there’s enough flexibility in the system to let experts develop some truly powerful automations.
How do I customize the Good Morning Routine? As just one example, you can customize Google Home’s Good Morning Routine by following the instructions above, then clicking on that Routine. You can change the words or phrase that triggers the Routine, adjust the Actions, and choose which lights or smart home devices will respond and exactly what they’ll do. Google will also suggest other logical or fun actions.
The bottom line is that Google Home Routines can save you time and lots of talking to your digital assistant by taking just a few minutes to set them up.
Editors' Recommendations Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Here’s how to throw a killer Halloween party with your smart home Nanoleaf gets into the holiday spirit with Matter-enabled string lights The Amazon Echo Hub is almost the whole-home hub I’ve always wanted 6 HomeKit settings you should disable (or adjust) right now Features Google Google Nest Smart Lights Smart Home Ring launched the Pet Profile feature in 2022, giving app users an easier way to help locate lost pets. Today, the company is doubling down on its pet-rescuing efforts with the reveal of the Ring Pet Tag -- an affordable gadget designed to make it easier than ever to find your missing companion.
The Ring Pet Tag attaches to your pet’s collar and features a QR code on the back. When someone finds your pet and scans this QR code, you’ll get a notification that your lost companion has been found. And if you’ve set up a Pet Profile, the person who found your pet will get details about their health conditions so they can better watch them until you pick them up.
Smart Home Nest Aware and Nest Aware Plus — the optional subscription services that allow for cloud-based recording on Google's Nest cameras — are getting more expensive in the U.S., U.K, and Australia.
Current subscribers are receiving emails alerting them to a 33% increase for Nest Aware, going from $6 a month or $60 a year to $8 a month or $80 a year. Nest Aware Plus — which doubles event video history from 30 to 60 days and adds 24/7 video history — is going from $12 a month or $120 a year to $15 a month or $150 a year. The new pricing already is in effect for new subscribers.
Smart Home Google Home is continuing to expand its roster, with Google today adding support for the Nest Cam Indoor (1st Gen). This allows you to manage all aspects of your camera, such as checking your notification history and accessing your camera feed.
There’s a bit of a catch, as support for Nest Cam Indoor is only available in Public Preview. To join Public Preview and gain early access to the feature, you’ll need to dive into the Settings on your Home app and select Join Public Preview. You’ll then get a prompt to update Public Preview -- accept this invitation, and you’ll see another prompt letting you know when you’re eligible to transfer your camera to Google Home.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
