Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features Here’s why you need a robot vacuum that empties itself By Jon Bitner Close Robot vacuums have come a long way over the past few years. What started out as a niche device prone to falling down the stairs or getting tangled in pet toys is now able to keep your floors clean for weeks on end without any manual input. They come in all shapes, sizes, and budgets — but if you’re looking to get the most for your money, you need to spring for a premium model that knows how to automatically empty its dustbin.
Some robot vacuums are more headache than helper It’s all about the docking station Only elite robot vacuums are living up to the hype Some robot vacuums are more headache than helper Image used with permission by copyright holder The appeal of robot vacuums is simple. Instead of having to vacuum your home every few days, these circular little monsters can suck up debris, pet fur, dirt, and everything else lurking in your carpets without the need to dirty your hands.
Unfortunately, that’s not the reality for the vast majority of robot vacuums available today. If you opt for an entry-level (or even mid-range) robot vacuum, you’ll have to deal with much more maintenance than you’d expect. From detangling its brush to putting up with lackluster cleaning, you might spend more time babysitting your robot vacuum than you would if you picked up a traditional vacuum.
Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni boasts a new square design and improved vacuuming skills Roborock is launching two affordable robot vacuums in October Worse yet, you’ll be left emptying its tiny dustbin after each cleaning — and since its dustbin is much smaller than a traditional vacuum, it can often become remarkably dirty if you’re not keeping up.
Entry-level robots are also built with entry-level components, so don’t be surprised if you notice squeaky wheels, brushes that are constantly getting stuck on long fibers, or dustbin filters that are easily clogged.
It’s all about the docking station Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re looking to truly automate your vacuuming needs, then you’re almost required to spring for a model that can empty its own dustbin. These robot vacuums don’t come cheap (most hover around $1,000), but they allow you to go weeks (sometimes months) without any manual intervention.
After each cleaning, all robot vacuum returns to their docking station. And if you picked up a lower-priced model, that’s where the automation ends and your manual efforts are once again required.
But if you picked up a higher-priced model, the action is just getting started. Not only will the docking station charge your vacuum, but it’ll automatically empty its dustbin into a larger reservoir that can go weeks before filling up. And if your vacuum doubles as a mop, the docking station might also serve to clean and dry the mopheads using attached water reservoirs.
In other words, robot vacuums with advanced docking stations and the ability to empty themselves are finally making the dream of an automated clean come true.
Only elite robot vacuums are living up to the hype Roborock While it can be enticing to spend $500 and pick up a basic robot vacuum, you’d be better off saving your money, increasing your budget, and waiting a bit longer to pick up a premium $1000 model. After all, robot vacuums are meant to save you time — but if you’re constantly dealing with the need to empty dustbins, that defeats the purpose of a robot.
Expensive models also typically offer better cleaning skills, with something like the luxurious Roborock S8 Pro Ultra offering nearly three times the suction of lower-priced devices. They also feature more robust mapping and navigation software, allowing them to deftly avoid anything left on the floor while still tackling every possible inch of your home. That means you’ll never be tempted to break out a traditional vacuum and perform a spot-cleaning, something that you might find yourself doing frequently with a lesser model.
Of course, even these high-end robots still need regular maintenance. Every so often you’ll need to clean out their filters or replace a part that’s starting to get worn down. But once you’ve used a robot vacuum that knows how to empty itself and is fully automated, it’s hard to go back to anything else.
Editors' Recommendations The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces Self-emptying robot vacuums: Do you really need one? iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ robot vacuum and mop is perfect for high-pile carpet SwitchBot S10 robot vacuum connects to your plumbing for fully automated mopping iRobot expands Roomba 2-in-1 lineup with Combo j5+ and Combo i5+ Appliances Features Robot Vacuums Smart Home There’s been no shortage of robot vacuum launches of late, and it seems Eufy isn’t going to miss out on the fun. Following hot on the heels of Ecovacs and Roborock, Eufy is releasing the X9 Pro Robovac on June 29. But unlike the competition, the X9 Pro will offer mopping and vacuuming skills for less than $1,000.
The X9 Pro will be available for just $899, yet offers many of the features found on products that sell for twice its price. This includes 5,500 Pa of suction, the ability to raise its mop a full 12mm when traveling on carpet, and a base station that can clean and dry the robot after each cycle. That’s an impressive list of features, especially when you consider the price tag.
Smart Home It seems like Ecovacs only just launched the Deebot T10 Omni, but the company is already gearing up for another massive product launch. On June 13, the Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni will hit the markets, bringing with it a bunch of new skills -- including the ability to raise its mop while traveling on carpet and an automated mop-washing station that uses hot water to prevent the buildup of bacteria.
The ability to lift its mopping plates 9mm off the ground is a big selling point of the T20 Omni. In fact, no other robot vacuum can lift their mop higher -- unless, of course, you count the j7+ Combo, which completely changes the orientation of its mophead to ensure it doesn’t brush along your carpet. But no matter how you cut it, the 9mm of travel distance for the mophead is a big improvement for the T20 Omni.
Smart Home Roborock, the brand responsible for some of the best robot vacuums on the market, has pulled back the curtain on the upcoming Roborock S7 Max Ultra. Available on June 11, the premium smart home gadget clocks in at $1,299, but brings serious automation to your home Much like its older sibling, the S8 Pro Ultra, the S7 Max Ultra functions as both a vacuum and mop. But aside from the ability to clean all surfaces of your home, the big selling point of the S7 Max Ultra is its “Ultra Dock,” which can handle the following maintenance tasks without any manual input: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
