Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home News What to expect at CES 2023, from mondo TVs to EVs By Digital Trends Staff Close Break out the champagne and roll out the red carpets, CES is back! After two rough, COVID-addled years that saw the world’s greatest tech show reduced to a shell of its former self, the show is primed to spring back to its former glory for 2023. And our team of writers and editors will be on the ground in Las Vegas, bringing it all to you.
Computing AV Gaming Mobile Smart Home Cars But much has changed since the last “normal” CES of 2020.
 The economy has boomed and busted, supply chains have knotted, and attitudes over excess have shifted as climate change looms larger and larger in our global conversation. And as always, the tech itself has marched forward, rising to the challenges of our new post-COVID lives.
We asked our expert editors to share their predictions about what we’ll see in every major product category. Here’s what’s coming.
MSI has some massive QD-OLED monitor news in the works Nintendo Direct September 2023: how to watch and what to expect Gamescom Opening Night Live 2023: how to watch and what to expect Computing From experimental laptop concepts to game-changing monitors, CES is always a go-to destination for the computing tech that will dominate the rest of the year.
Fionna Agomuoh/Digital Trends What’s coming this year? Well, we’ve seen plenty of teases from the biggest names in the game already, including LG’s 27-inch OLED gaming monitor and Alienware’s monster 18-inch gaming laptop.
 Beyond those we already know about, laptops are expected to remain a particular focus of the show, with dozens of new devices and updates likely to get announced for the new year. Lenovo, Asus, HP, Dell, and are all expected to unveil new slates of laptops and 2-in-1s for 2023, all vying to become the best laptops and gaming laptops you can buy by the end of the year.
And, of course, we’re always eagerly anticipating the press conferences for the silicon that powers these new products, with Nvidia, AMD, and Intel all set to make some big announcements. The RTX 40-series laptop GPUs will be the talk of the show for gaming laptops, especially since a super-powered RTX 4090 is rumored to make an appearance.
— Luke Larsen AV If there’s one thing you can count on at CES, it’s this: Television manufacturers will roll out new televisions that will be bigger, brighter, and better than the ones that came before. Expect as such from the likes of LG, Samsung, and Sony, as well as others including TCL and Vizio. We’re still very much looking toward QD-OLED as the future of cutting-edge TV tech, so it’ll be interesting to see if anyone has anything to add on that front.
Digital Trends The real question as far as the TVs go is whether we’ll see any surprises in Las Vegas. In 2022, we saw the first signs of QD-OLED.
 Will 2023 be the year that tech starts to go mainstream? Then there’s the audio side of things.
Soundbars are still all the rage — LG revealed its 2023 lineup of soundbars — and we should expect them to continue to incrementally improve, and continue to work better and more seamlessly with the televisions they serve.
And, as always, CES should continue to be lousy with new headphones. Maybe not new flagships from the major manufacturers — they tend to release on their own schedules. But there still should be something new to put in or on your ears.
— Phil Nickinson Gaming Video game fans don’t generally tend to pay much attention to CES, as it’s not a show that’s historically associated with big reveals. The trade show does have a way of sneaking in some major news though, that tends to take fans off guard. Just last year, for instance, Sony took the stage to share details about its PlayStation VR2 headset and even unveil Horizon: Call of the Mountain.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Don’t expect any game surprises like that this year, but there are still some tech trends you’ll want to keep an eye on. We know for sure that VR is going to play a major role in the show, as HTC is preparing to unveil its next headset. With Meta chasing professionals with its expensive Quest Pro, HTC’s device could wind up being the next consumer-friendly option for gamers, so long as the price is right. There’s also a chance that Sony could use this year as a big pre-release party for the PlayStation VR2 , which is set to drop in February.
Portable gaming is especially something to watch this year. We’ve already seen companies like Logitech take a stab at their own cloud-based handhelds and we assume Razer might use the show to highlight the Edge.
 There’s always a chance that a company like Asus, which revealed the ROG Flow Z13 gaming tablet last year, could follow that trend with a device of its own. It’s unlikely that we’ll see a shock reveal, but this CES should give us a clear view of how gaming tech is changing in the cloud era.
— Giovanni Colantonio Mobile CES used to be a hotspot for mobile tech. A few years ago, we’d get announcements from Apple, Samsung, LG, and other brands — making it one of the go-to shows for all things smartphones, wearables, and more. That hasn’t been true of CES for a while, but that doesn’t mean CES 2023 won’t give us any mobile tech goodness.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends OnePlus used CES 2022 to announce the OnePlus 10 Pro.
 The company has already confirmed that the OnePlus 11 is launching in February, but it’s possible we’ll get additional details on the phone before then. Samsung also had an appearance at last year’s CES to debut the Galaxy S21 FE.
 While we aren’t expecting the Galaxy S23 at CES, Samsung may show off some new low- and mid-range handsets.
TCL and Nokia are both usually safe bets for CES, so expect to hear something from one (or both) of those companies regarding upcoming smartphones. Lenovo’s already announced one budget Android tablet, and Movano has confirmed it’ll be unveiling its new smart ring designed specifically for women.
CES 2023 may not be the biggest mobile tech event of the year, but don’t you dare call it a boring one.
— Joe Maring Smart Home Matter, Matter, Matter ! The new universal standard for smart home connectivity was on the tip of every tongue last year for good reason. It promises to liberate us from devices that only talk to a handful of peers and finally deliver the reliable, easy-to-connect smart home that seemed just over the horizon a decade ago.
Amazon The good news is, it’s finally here. After a delay early last year , the specs for Matter were finalized in October , which means a slew of new devices that support the standard are headed our way at CES, and to actual store shelves in 2023. Expect smart lights, locks, appliances, and every other device under the sun to proudly showcase support for Matter, and its underlying technology Thread.
— Nick Mokey Cars CES has become every bit as important to automakers as car shows in Detroit and Tokyo, and it’s easy to see why: The tech show has also become ground zero for the EV revolution.
This year, Ram will catch up to the likes of Ford and GM by launching an electric RAM 1500 dubbed the Revolution BEV.
 Previous hints suggest it will boast 500-mile range, putting the current breed of electric trucks to shame. Its parent company Stellantis will also show off its Peugeot Inception concept, and Mercedes is almost always good for a wickedly futuristic mind bender, like last year’s Vision EQXX.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Other mobility concepts will also take flight – in some cases literally. Silicon Valley’s Aska will unveil a working, full-size prototype of an electric car-and-quadcopter in one, also known as an eVTOL. Ryse Aero Technologies promises parking lot demos of its own Recon eVTOL, and Maca, a company with Formula 1 roots, will show off the hydrogen-powered S11, a carcopter built for racing.
Back on the ground, passengers are also in for some upgrades. Zoox, the self-driving car company owned by Amazon, will finally let us poke around the inside of its long-awaited robotaxis, and Holoride will show off a new version of VR tech destined for the back seat of cars. We’ll bring our vomit bags.
— Nick Mokey Editors' Recommendations Indie World Showcase November 2023: How to watch and what to expect State of Play September 2023: How to watch and what to expect How to watch TCL’s 2023 global flagship product launch event Pokémon Presents August 2023: how to watch and what to expect Sony’s 2023 A95L QD-OLED TV up for preorder in August starting at $2,800 Audio / Video Cars Computing Gaming Mobile Smart Home CES 2023 Features Internet of Things (IoT) Mobile Samsung’s midyear Unpacked event has just concluded, and it featured the usual slate of big foldable and wearable announcements. As expected, we saw Samsung unveil the Galaxy Z Flip 5 and Galaxy Z Fold 5, a new Galaxy Tab S9 lineup, and a pair of Galaxy Watch 6 models representing a comeback for the much-loved Galaxy Watch Classic style.
Needless to say, there was a lot to take in today, and some details can easily get glossed over in the midst of all the big tentpole product announcements. While Samsung’s new product lineup is undoubtedly exciting, the upgrades over last year’s models are more iterative — and in some cases even lateral — but Samsung still had a few surprises for us.
The Galaxy Z Flip 5 gets a nice storage boost Mobile It’s official — Samsung’s next Galaxy Unpacked event will be on July 26, 2023, in Seoul, Korea. And boy, this will be a jam-packed event. We’re going to see the next generation of Samsung's foldables, smartwatches, and tablets. So, let’s break it all down.
Here’s everything we’re expecting to see at the Samsung Galaxy Unpacked July 2023 event — from the Galaxy Z Fold 5, new Galaxy Watch 6, and everything in between.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Gaming There has been a lot of online debate about whether or not Nintendo would host a full-fledged Nintendo Direct this month. Well, we don't need to argue about it anymore: It's true.
Nintendo announced that a full Nintendo Direct presentation will take place on June 21, giving us more insight into upcoming exclusives like Pikmin 4, as well as other games in the works for the system. We don't know much about Nintendo's fall game lineup right now, so this showcase should be quite exciting.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
