Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides 8 Google Assistant settings you should disable or adjust By Erin Lawrence Close Smart home devices like Google Nest Audio and Google Nest Hub continue to grow more popular every year — but so do privacy concerns about what data they’re collecting and what’s being shared with their manufacturers. It’s highly unlikely these products are tracking everything you say, but users will be glad to hear there are several settings you can adjust to ensure your information is secure. Beyond security, Google Assistant has plenty of other settings for you to tinker around with, allowing you to optimize its performance for your home.
How to check Google privacy settings Review audio recordings and web history Disable tracking of your YouTube history How to change the ads that Google shows you Can Google hear you? Adding Google Assistant Confirmation Setting Disable motion or sleep tracking Adjust ‘Hey Google’ sensitivity Personalize your morning news experience Get vegetarian, vegan, or gluten-free recipe suggestions from Google From adjusting its listening sensitivity to offering up vegan recipes, here’s a look at a few Google Assistant settings you should adjust. Most of these changes take no more than a few seconds to complete but could radically improve your smart home experience.
Taylor Frint/Digital Trends Graphic How to check Google privacy settings Right out of the gate, it’s probably a good idea to evaluate what your privacy settings look like. Depending on when you may have adopted the Google ecosystem, things may have changed substantially. Certain privacy rules and declarations are constantly being updated. It pays to see where you’re at. Here’s how to assess the basics.
From the Google Assistant app, click on your profile picture. If you’re having trouble locating this menu, simply tell Google Assistant to “Open Assistant settings.” Next, choose the You setting. This will bring up a menu with several different Assistant settings that can be changed individually, including things like weather units, access to accounts, purchases, vehicle settings, nicknames, “your places,” and more.
The best smart displays for 2023 How often should you replace your robot vacuum? Google’s Nest Aware service is getting more expensive It may be worth it to view the Your Places tab in particular since Google will have stored past data about places that you might not like. I found that, while I didn’t realize it, two very random locations I was unaware of were listed. Tapping on the X removes them from the app.
Similarly, under Purchases , you might find what’s been saved there either interesting or terrifying. Check it out and simply delete what you don’t want to be saved.
To see what else Google knows about you, click Manage your Google Account under your profile photo, then choose Manage your data & privacy.
Review audio recordings and web history Of note, the voice and audio activity setting is off by default unless you choose to turn it on. When it comes to any voice recordings Google may have saved, you can listen to what’s in there.
In the same batch of settings, you can also view your web search activity and delete anything you don’t want to see there either. To access both your searches and see what audio may be stored, go to the Data & Privacy tab in your Google Account.
Under History settings, click Web & App Activity then scroll down to Manage Activity.
 On this page, you can see a list of your past search activity, and items with an audio icon will have a recording file. Tap to review any recording.
Disable tracking of your YouTube history Under the Data & Privacy tab, you can also view and adjust content saved from Apps and Google services like YouTube and from other third-party apps you’ve granted access to. Below those settings, there is a toggle to turn off your YouTube History, and you can also manage the history as well.
How to change the ads that Google shows you You can also adjust Ad personalization which allows you to update or change ad settings or turn off personalization altogether. Tap on your profile photo in the Google Home or Assistant app and then choose Manage your Google Account.
 The Data & Privacy tab is where to go, and if you scroll down you’ll see a Personalized ads section. While you can simply toggle it on or off, there are some interesting little tabs in there where Google has assumed your interests. The list is long and can sometimes be pretty obscure. Tap to delete any topics that don’t apply. (I deleted Rail Freight, Romance Films, and somehow creepily it had me correctly tagged as “not a parent.” How does it know?) Can Google hear you? Adding Google Assistant Confirmation Setting If you’d like to know when Google Assistant starts and stops listening to you, you can update the settings in the Google Home app. This is adjusted by each device, not in your larger Google settings, so start by finding your particular device’s tile in the Google Home app, click on it, then choose the Settings icon, and choose Accessibility from the menu.
There are two settings of note here, “ Play start sound ” and “ Play end sound.
” These will enable Google Assistant to play a sound when it starts and/or finishes listening, so you’ll always know.
Disable motion or sleep tracking For the newer versions of Google Nest, there is an option to turn off tracking and sleep sensing. You can do it on-device, or in the Google Home app by clicking on your device and choosing the Settings gear.
To turn off Motion Sense on a Nest Hub, you simply swipe up the Nest Hub display, tap the Settings icon, and toggle the Motion Sense setting. When off, the Motion Sense feature will stop detecting movement in front of it.
To turn off the Sleep Sensing feature, swipe up from the bottom of the display, and tap Sleep Sensing.
 When off, Google will stop sensing your sleep patterns and tracking that data, and give you a bit more privacy.
To turn off a Google Nest on-device Camera (if it doesn’t have a privacy shutter), select the camera, choose Settings , and tap the Camera On/Off command. You can also control when the camera is activated with a schedule.
Adjust ‘Hey Google’ sensitivity Does your smart home device react to anything that sounds remotely like “Hey Google?” Or maybe you need to shout at it from a few feet away to have it trigger anything at all. Whatever the case, Google gives you the option to adjust the sensitivity of its wake word. Simply open your Google Home app, click on the Settings tab (located on the left toolbar), then open the Google Assistant section. Click Manage all Assistant settings , and you’ll see an option to adjust the “Hey Google” sensitivity. From here, you’ll be able to choose which device you want to modify.
Personalize your morning news experience One of the great ways Google Assistant can be helpful in your life is to share a morning news briefing with you as you’re getting ready.
To customize News settings, open the Google Home app, then click on your profile picture. Next, click Assistant Settings.
 Scroll down until you see News.
 You should see a list of default news services that Google pulls info from. You can select, deselect, or change the order of these news sources, as well as add others. You can also select the country from which the news sources are pulled.
Get vegetarian, vegan, or gluten-free recipe suggestions from Google If you have a Google smart home device with a screen, you probably know one of the interesting features is that it can suggest recipes for you. Just tell the assistant to play one that you like. But if you are vegan, vegetarian, or prefer to eat gluten-free, did you know you can customize these recipes? To set recipe type preferences, including vegan, vegetarian, and gluten-free, as well as specific cuisines and even specific ingredients (not available in all countries), open the Google Home app, click your profile picture, choose Assistant Settings, and scroll down to Food & Drink.
 You can select food preferences and even give a thumbs up or down to the ingredients.
This is just a short list of some of the most commonly asked-about settings. Google has made pretty big strides at making it easy to find and adjust almost any aspect of a Google device or the Google Assistant — a good thing, considering all the privacy concerns.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? The best Amazon Alexa smart speakers Google TV vs. Roku TV: which is the better streaming OS? Google Home adds support for Nest Cam Indoor Google Google Nest Smart Home Google Home is one of the best smart home platforms of 2023. Some of its benefits are obvious -- such as being able to dish out voice commands or check in on all your gadgets in one location using the smartphone app -- but others are a bit more obscure. In fact, some of the best Google Home features can’t be found without a bit of digging.
To help you get the most out of Google Home, here’s a long list of tips, tricks, and even a few Easter eggs to maximize the system’s potential. Whether you’re looking to easily connect all your smart home gadgets or just want a funny trick to show off at your next party, there’s bound to be something you didn’t know about Google Home listed below.
'Hey, Google' Smart Home If you’re just beginning your smart home journey, it can be difficult to figure out where to start. From smart thermostats and smart speakers to robot vacuums and light bulbs, the number of gadgets on the market is truly staggering -- and can quickly become overwhelming to newcomers.
Thankfully, piecing together a smart home is pretty simple. While you can easily sink hours into automating every aspect of your household, all that's really required for a “smart home” is a few products and their accompanying apps on your phone. If you need some guidance getting started, here are some tips to help set up your smart home.
Smart Home The Google Nest Mini (2nd Gen) is one of the best smart speakers you can buy. Not only is it affordable, but it lets you access Google Assistant to check up on the weather, play music, or give commands to other devices in your smart home.
However, like all electronics, the Nest Mini isn’t perfect. Users have experienced a wide range of hiccups and issues with the smart speaker over the years -- though most of the time there’s an easy fix to the problem. Below you’ll find a roundup of the most common Nest Mini problems and how to fix them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
