Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Amazon Astro: everything you need to know about this home robot By Patrick Hearn Close Amazon Astro came as a surprise when it was revealed in September 2021. The quirky device does a little bit of everything, serving as a robot companion that boasts facial recognition, impressive navigation skills , and tons of useful home security features.
Designed to rove around the home A display that sees and smiles Security guard when you’re not home Battery life on par with that of robot vacuums Can it fall down stairs? Can it work with Siri and Google Assistant? How much does Astro weigh? What happens if the Wi-Fi turns off? Pricing and availability But a lot has changed with Astro since it was first announced, and it’s gotten some new competition in the form of EBO X.
 Here’s a look at everything we know about Astro, including how you can get your hands on it and add it to your home.
Designed to rove around the home Amazon / Amazon Amazon calls Astro a “household robot.” This little device is designed to be an assistant throughout the home, helping with everything from home security to carrying cargo. It has no arms, but does come with a cargo bin. Users can place an item in the bin (or in one of the accessories, like a cup holder — sold separately, of course) and ask Astro to take the item to another member of the home. Thanks to facial recognition features, Astro can be taught to distinguish different family members from one another. If your spouse asks for a beer while watching the football game, just pass one to Astro and let it handle the job.
Best robot mops of 2023 The best smart home devices for 2023 The best video doorbells for 2023 Along with facial recognition for individual members of your home, it can now detect pets. It can even be set up so that it records your pet while you’re away from home and gives you periodic updates on its well-being. You’ll still need to hire a sitter to take your dog out or feed your cat (poor Astro still doesn’t have any limbs), but it’s a fun feature, nonetheless.
One example Amazon showed off for how useful the robot could be was in assisting elderly family members: checking on them, taking a video call to them, and more. Despite all of these features, the main area where Astro is likely to excel is in its ability to keep an eye on the home.
 This little robot is equipped with a variety of cameras and sensors.
A new report also indicates that Amazon will be bringing AI smarts to Astro in the future — although details are still a bit murky.
A display that sees and smiles Amazon Its “face” is a screen that can stream video calls, play Prime Video, and much more. It holds some of the same features as the newer Echo Shows in that it can move to keep you centered in the frame, but it takes this feature a step further by following users around the home to keep them centered. Large wheels and advanced navigation features allow it to maneuver around the home with ease, while a powerful braking system lets Astro stop if an obstacle appears in front of it. It utilizes SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) technology to maneuver through the home.
Security guard when you’re not home Astro is primarily designed to be a security measure within the home. Its powerful security features allow it to watch out for potential trouble inside your home, even without your input. Astro can autonomously patrol your home and investigate unusual events. It picks up on these events through motion and sound detection. For example, it utilizes the same features as Alexa Guard.
 If Astro detects the sound of breaking glass or a beeping fire alarm, it can go investigate.
A periscope camera in the middle of Astro’s “head” can telescope to get a better view of a room and its contents. Amazon showed Astro using this camera to keep an eye on a room as part of its scanning mode. However, this can also be used to investigate specific things — like whether or not you turned off the oven or locked the front door. Any video recordings made through Astro are saved to the cloud through the Ring Protect Pro service.
In a way, a roving security robot can be helpful. It reduces the need for multiple cameras in the home, but many people have raised concerns about the privacy implications of a device like this.
 According to Amazon, Astro was built with a strong focus on privacy. It has a physical button to turn off the camera, the mics, and its ability to move. When Astro is streaming video, an LED atop the periscope lights up.
Astro has also become useful for small businesses, as it can patrol a warehouse or office space and provide status alerts. It can also use Ring’s Virtual Security Guard feature to better investigate disturbances at locations with other Ring devices installed.
Battery life on par with that of robot vacuums Astro uses a docking system similar to that of robot vacuums. When not in use, it will dock itself to recharge. Based on technical specifications, Astro can reach a full charge in around 45 minutes to an hour and will be able to run for up to several hours before it needs to be recharged.
The robot’s effective battery life will largely depend on how much you use it, as well as what you use it for. A simple patrol won’t take as much battery power as using Astro to make video calls or stream content.
Can it fall down stairs? On the same day of Astro’s announcement, there was a leaked report about the efficacy of the robot that claimed it was far more fragile than Amazon had said. It also claimed Astro tumbled down stairs on a regular basis during early development. While this may be true, Amazon contradicts these comments — and our own experience with similar navigation systems throws some skepticism on the claims about Astro’s inability to navigate. Custom cliff sensors on Astro will help it distinguish what’s in its navigational path to prevent it from going over stairs. Astro also can’t climb stairs (due to its lack of legs) and will be limited to serving you on a single floor.
Can it work with Siri and Google Assistant? No word has been given on whether Astro will work with Siri or Google Assistant , but it likely will not. Given that this is specifically an Amazon device, it will likely push the Alexa ecosystem forward. Amazon has, however, shown it’s committed to Matter — an interoperability standard that allows different ecosystems to interact. It’s possible Astro will support Matter, and if it does, it’ll likely be able to sync with your gadgets running on Google Home or Apple HomeKit.
How much does Astro weigh? Based on Amazon’s provided technical specs, Astro weighs about 20.6 pounds.
What happens if the Wi-Fi turns off? If Astro can no longer stream to the cloud, you won’t receive alerts or notifications until the connection is restored. It isn’t clear whether Astro will include an SD card port for onboard memory, although the device does have USB-C port.
Pricing and availability Its retail price is $1,600, but it’s purchasable by invitation only. That means you won’t be able to simply log into your Amazon account and order the companion. There’s been no announcement for when Astro will launch publicly — so stay tuned for more details.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Amazon Astro gets a day job with Astro for Business The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces The best robot vacuums for 2023 The best indoor security cameras of 2023 Amazon Smart Home For many people the day is best kicked off with a nice cup of coffee. If you’re one of these people, not only do we have a great cup of coffee in store for you, but also some savings. Many of the best coffee makers often see discounts, and that’s certainly the case with one of the best names in coffee makers: Keurig. There are quite a few Keurig coffee makers seeing major price drops right now, including several in consideration for the best Keurig coffee makers. We’ve done the heavy lifting of tracking them all down, so read onward for more details on how to save on a Keurig coffee maker, and for more information on which Keurig coffee maker may be best for you.
Keurig K-Mini coffee maker — $50, was $100 The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker is a stylish coffee maker that looks good in any kitchen or break room. It suits smaller spaces particularly well, as it’s less than five inches wide. Despite its smaller size, it’s still fully capable. It can brew any cup size between 6-12 ounces, and it’s able to brew coffee, tea, cocoa, and even iced beverages. The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker has easy cord storage for transport and tidying up your countertop after use, and an energy efficiency feature turns the coffee maker off automatically 90 seconds after your last brew.
Smart Home When it comes to keeping your floors clean, robot vacuums and cordless vacuums are among the best products you can buy. Robot vacuums have become increasingly popular over the past few years -- thanks to their ability to clean your home autonomously -- but cordless vacuums offer plenty of advantages over their robotic counterparts.
Deciding between the two isn't easy, and thankfully, it's hard to make a wrong decision. Both are well-equipped to clean your floors, but there are some big trade-offs you'll have to make for each class. So, which is better? Robot vacuums or cordless vacuums? Smart Home Adding a robot vacuum to your home is an easy way to automate your floor-cleaning chores. Most robots produced today can vacuum, mop, and take care of minor maintenance tasks such as emptying dustbins and cleaning their mopheads. But no matter how fancy the robot, it'll eventually stop working and need to be replaced.
However, the life span of a robot vacuum varies greatly from product to product. Depending on how often you're performing preventative maintenance, you might be able to extend its life and keep it in your home for years. Here's a look at how often you should replace your robot vacuum, as well as things you can do to make it last longer.
How long does a robot vacuum last? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
