Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Are smart blinds worth it? By Jon Bitner Close As far as smart home gadgets are concerned, smart blinds are pretty niche. Unlike smart displays , video doorbells , or smart locks , it’s not often that you hear about smart blinds (or see them installed in a friend’s home). However, these unique products offer the same luxuries as their smart siblings — and some might even be able to save you money.
What are smart blinds? How much do smart blinds cost? Can smart blinds really save money? Are smart blinds worth it? But are smart blinds worth it? Or is the upfront investment too steep in relation to the conveniences they offer? Here’s a closer look at these products to help you decide if you should upgrade your traditional blinds to something with a bit more brains.
What are smart blinds? Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart blinds, sometimes referred to as smart shades, are motorized blinds that can be opened and closed remotely. Some can even be programmed to operate on a schedule, closing for privacy at night and then automatically opening again in the morning.
Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? The best smart home devices for 2023 Emporia resolves issue with Smart Plugs that spurred recall Depending on which specific model you opt for, you’ll also get support for Google Home , Amazon Alexa , or other smart home ecosystems. Many can also be controlled via a smartphone app or included remote control, allowing you to adjust the positioning without getting up from the couch.
Smart blinds are offered as both a standalone product and as a retrofit for your existing blinds.
 So whether you want brand new blinds or love your current setup, there’s likely an option to get smart blinds into your home.
How much do smart blinds cost? Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart blinds typically cost more than their traditional counterparts. Pricing can vary widely based on the size of your windows and what sort of features (and quality) you’re looking for but expect to pay at least $150 for basic smart shades for a standard window.
If you want more features or need to outfit a larger window, the price can quickly creep up over $500. That starting price is much higher than traditional blinds — which can be had for a fraction of the price — but is closely aligned with premium blinds, which often cost well over $200.
Retrofitting kits also have a wide range of prices, although you can snag them for just $100. That makes them a great alternative to standalone smart blinds, especially if you’re planning to update your entire home. However, some homes may benefit from a professional installation.
“Getting smart blinds installed by a professional is a good idea, as it ensures a smoother and more reliable experience overall,” said Tracy Christman, executive vice president of product development and strategy at Budget Blinds. “A professional will program and personalize each of your window coverings to your space and your experience.” Depending on where you shop and what you purchase, professional installation might cost extra. But if you’re spending money on premium smart shades, it’s worth the investment to ensure they work as intended.
Can smart blinds really save money? Image used with permission by copyright holder Yes, smart blinds can save you money on your energy bills, but results can vary from house to house. For one, a good set of traditional blinds that are manually adjusted throughout the day can theoretically save you just as much as a set of smart blinds. Insulation factors on smart blinds vary just as much as they do on traditional blinds — and if you buy high-quality traditional blinds (and constantly adjust them throughout the day), you can reduce the amount of heat that pours in through your windows.
A recent study showed that smart blinds are effective at reducing energy bills. The study was performed in an office building, so it’s not a perfect translation to a home environment, but it’s clear that smart blinds can help shrink your bills and save energy when used correctly.
Christman notes that smart blinds can “absolutely” save you money, though you’ll need to ensure you’re using them properly.
“The unique sensors on motorized window treatments allow users the ability to increase energy efficiency by automatically adjusting blinds with rising temperatures,” said Christman. “Window coverings can also be programmed on timers to open and close at specific times during the day, which will help to save on energy costs. Programming your shades to close when the sun is shining can help to keep fabrics, rugs, upholstery, and artwork from fading as well.” Are smart blinds worth it? Image used with permission by copyright holder If you live in a climate that has you constantly raising and lowering your blinds to regulate your home’s temperature or block out the sun, then smart blinds are a wise investment. The convenience of remotely activating them or scheduling their performance is well worth the added upfront cost. And when used properly, you could easily end up saving a few bucks on your energy bills — recouping your investment.
For more energy savings, be sure to consider a smart thermostat.
 When coupled with smart blinds, the two can do a great job of slashing your monthly bills and helping you reduce your energy consumption. Once you’re ready to get started on your search, be sure to check out our roundup of the best smart blinds of 2023.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Amazon Astro gets a day job with Astro for Business Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? Is an Ecobee Smart Security subscription worth it? Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? Amazon Google Google Nest Smart Home Smart displays sit at the very center of most smart homes. With the ability to sync with other gadgets to issue commands, give you daily updates, or serve as a second screen to binge your favorite shows, smart displays are remarkably versatile devices.
The smart display market is more saturated today than ever before, with products from Amazon, Google, Facebook, and more vying for your attention. Google has even revealed that the upcoming Pixel Tablet will double as a smart display, and Apple might be throwing its hat into the ring sooner than expected.
Smart Home The best smart locks of 2023 come from popular brands like Yale, Wyze, August, and Schlage, and they offer tons of cool features you won’t find on traditional deadbolts. From the ability to check the status of your lock remotely to being able to set up temporary profiles for guests, there’s a reason these smart home gadgets continue to grow in popularity.
Picking the right smart lock for your needs, however, is no small task. Not all smart locks are worthy of your time and money, and installing a bad smart lock could cause you plenty of headaches. Thankfully, there’s a product for every purpose. Whether you’re setting up a rental property, need something robust for a large family, or want to do away with your keys entirely, there’s bound to be a smart lock with your name on it.
Smart Home While they may not be as exciting as robot vacuums or smart speakers, smart plugs are a great addition to any smart home. These nifty devices allow you to remotely control anything connected to them, like the lights around your home or your trusty coffee maker. And if you're thinking about using smart plugs to control your holiday lights or other exterior decorations, you'll be glad to know that some smart plugs can be used outside.
However, not all smart plugs are up to the task, and using the wrong ones outdoors could pose serious safety risks. Before you run out on your porch and start installing smart plugs, here's what you need to know about using smart plugs outside.
Not all smart plugs can be used outside Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
