Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Do air purifiers work? By Jon Bitner Close While your traditional HVAC system can filter out dust, pollen, and other airborne particulates, sometimes it simply isn’t enough to keep your air as clean as you’d like. That’s where air purifiers come into play, as these secondary devices can be placed anywhere around your home to provide additional cleaning power.
How do air purifiers work? What can air purifiers eliminate? Are air purifiers worth adding to your home? They can also be incredibly helpful during the cold winter months when windows and doors stay closed — preventing you from airing out all the allergens floating around your home.
But do air purifiers work, and are they worth the hefty upfront investment? Here’s a closer look at air purifiers to help you decide if you should add one to your home.
The best indoor security cameras of 2023 What is a smart lock and how does it work? The best smart plugs of 2023: What is a smart plug, and which do I need? How do air purifiers work? Image used with permission by copyright holder There are several different types of air purifiers available in 2023, but they all follow the same basic principle. Air purifiers are designed to pull in air, trap any airborne particulates, then pump clean air back into your home. Many products use a combination of prefilters and HEPA filters to accomplish this task.
Prefilters are typically a permanent fixture of the air purifier designed to catch large airborne objects (such as pet fur) and can be washed when dirty. HEPA filters must be periodically replaced, but are specifically designed to capture tiny particulates such as dust, dander, and pollen.
A few air purifiers use ionizing technology , which creates electrical charges to remove airborne contaminants. The research on this process is mixed, however, so your best bet is to stick with the tried-and-trusted HEPA models.
What can air purifiers eliminate? Image used with permission by copyright holder Air purifiers can eliminate tons of airborne particulates from your home. Performance varies by product, but here are some of the common contaminants targeted by air purifiers: Dust Pollen Smoke Viruses Pet Dander Bacteria Keep in mind that air purifiers are often rated for a certain size room. Putting them in a room larger than intended will result in less-than-optimal cleaning, allowing some of the above contaminants to continue lingering in your home. Be sure to only use an air purifier that’s rated for your room — otherwise, it won’t perform as intended and could leave you exposed to nasty airborne matter.
Also, many air purifiers are now designed to work with multiple types of filters. This includes filters built by the manufacturer and third-party reproductions. Do your research before making a purchase, as some unofficial products may have quality issues or aren’t designed to filter out the same contaminants. When in doubt, stick with filters sold by the manufacturer of your air purifier.
Are air purifiers worth adding to your home? Image used with permission by copyright holder Most households will find that air purifiers are worth the investment. This is especially true if anyone in your home has seasonal allergies or if you have furry friends running around your house. They’re especially great in the winter as a source of air circulation, allowing you to breathe fresh air without having to open a window to the frigid air outside. A reliable air purifier can be found for less than $250, with annual filter costs coming in at just under $100 for most brands.
To keep them working properly, routine maintenance is required– such as cleaning the prefilters and replacing HEPA filters. If you don’t do this, they won’t work as expected. You’ll also want to make sure you’re regularly changing your furnace filters and scheduling duct cleanings as needed, as air purifiers aren’t the only thing in your home responsible for your air quality.
Wildfire season is a particularly important time to keep tabs on your air purifier. Smoke will likely force you to change your HEPA filter more often than usual, so be sure to keep a few extras on hand in case they’re needed. Prefilter changes should also be performed more frequently.
If you need help starting your search, check out our list of the best air purifiers.
Editors' Recommendations The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update Best Instant Pot deals: Pressure cookers, air fryers and grills on sale Best air conditioner deals: portable and window units on sale Best air purifier deals: Save big on Dyson, Shark, TCL and more Smart Home If you’re shopping for some of the best smart kitchen appliances or are otherwise looking to upgrade your kitchen, you can’t go wrong with a new air fryer. Even the best air fryers often see impressive deals, and right now there are quite a few air fryers that are seeing discounts worth shopping. Big names in the air fryer world include Bella, Instant Pot and Ninja, and they’ve all got models you can grab at a discount right now. Whether you’re looking to eat a little bit healthier or simply add some cool tech to your smart home, these are the best air fryer deals you can shop right now.
Mainstays 2.2-quart compact air fryer — $25, was $30 One of the most affordable air fryers you’ll come across is the Mainstays 2.2-quart air fryer. It’s incredibly compact and would fit nicely into smaller kitchens and single-person households. Its 2.2-quart capacity can still handle a decent amount of food, and allows for a fast, evenly cooked meal every time. The Mainstays 2.2-quart compact air fryer makes tasks like reheating leftover foods and preparing quick snacks easy as well. It has a dishwasher safe nonstick-coated pan and crisping tray for easy clean up.
Smart Home Google Home is continuing to expand its roster, with Google today adding support for the Nest Cam Indoor (1st Gen). This allows you to manage all aspects of your camera, such as checking your notification history and accessing your camera feed.
There’s a bit of a catch, as support for Nest Cam Indoor is only available in Public Preview. To join Public Preview and gain early access to the feature, you’ll need to dive into the Settings on your Home app and select Join Public Preview. You’ll then get a prompt to update Public Preview -- accept this invitation, and you’ll see another prompt letting you know when you’re eligible to transfer your camera to Google Home.
Smart Home While video doorbells from Ring, Arlo, and Nest are great additions to any smart home, they’re not without their quirks. Depending on your model, you might have to deal with frequent battery changes, incompatible chimes, or motion settings that constantly need to be adjusted. Most of those are easy to live with (or can be modified to your preference), but one thing that’s out of your control is the weather. And, like most electronics, video doorbells have some strict limits on what they can endure.
If you live in a location with scorching summers, here’s what you need to know about how video doorbells work in extreme heat.
Video doorbells can withstand high temperatures (but they’re not invincible) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
