Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni vs. iRobot Roomba Combo j9+: Which premium robot vacuum is best? By Jon Bitner Close The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni and iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ are two of the newest robot vacuums on the market. Offering not just the ability to vacuum and mop, but to also empty their dustbins, they’re two of the best robot vacuums money can buy. But which one is a better fit for your home? Pricing and availability Vacuuming Mopping Additional features Which robot vacuum and mop combo is best? From vacuuming prowess and mopping skills to additional features and pricing, here’s a look at how the X2 Omni and Combo j9+ compare.
Pricing and availability Ecovacs The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni costs $1,500 and is available in black or white. The iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ is slightly cheaper at $1,400 and is only available in black. Both products see frequent discounts around big shopping holidays, lowering their prices by a few hundred bucks. They also boast premium designs — the X2 Omni has a unique square shape, while the Combo j9+ features a wooden top for its dock and a cool bronze color on top of the robot.
How to fix a robot vacuum that stops moving Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni boasts a new square design and improved vacuuming skills Best robot vacuum deals: Roomba, Shark, Anker and more starting at $85 Winner: iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ Vacuuming Ecovacs The Ecovacs X2 Omni is a vacuuming powerhouse, boasting 8,000 Pa of suction that allows it to easily suck up debris, hair, and other objects tangled in your floor’s carpet. Its square shape also allows it to get closer to edges than the circular design of the Combo j9+.
While iRobot doesn’t share specific suction information for its robot vacuums, there’s no doubt that the Combo j9+ is just as powerful as the X2 Omni. The company does note the vacuum offers “100% more power-lifting suction” than the i Series, and its dual rubber brushes are well-suited for tackling pet hair without getting tangled.
Winner: Tie Mopping iRobot While both the X2 Omni and Combo j9+ can mop, they go about the task in radically different ways. The X2 Omni employs two rotating mops, which can raise 15mm when traveling on carpet. When on hard floors, they’ll spin and apply constant pressure to the ground, making them great for handling tough stains or spills. Ecovacs also built a water reservoir directly into the robot, allowing it to wet its mops during prolonged use so they don’t dry out.
By contrast, the Combo j9+ uses a swinging mop arm to stow its wet mop on top of itself when traveling on carpet. This does an excellent job of protecting carpets from getting wet. When on hard floors, it scrubs in a back-and-forth motion to clean while also applying pressure. And if its sensors detect that a second pass is needed, it’ll go back to finish the job.
The Combo j9+ is no slouch, but the large mopping pads on the X2 Omni are difficult to compete with, especially when paired with its square shape that allows it to clean nooks and crannies with ease.
Winner: Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni Additional features Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Both products offer robust smartphone apps to optimize their performance. This includes setting restricted zones, remapping your floors, and setting up cleaning schedules. They also feature accurate sensors to track dirt in your home and properly clean each section with the appropriate power settings.
However, there’s one big difference between these robots — the iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ doesn’t clean or dry its mops.
By contrast, the Ecovacs X2 Omni will clean its mopping pads with hot water after each cleaning cycle. It’ll then use warm air to dry them, eliminating mold and mildew growth. If you’re using the Combo j9+, you’ll need to manually perform cleanings — something that’s less than ideal when you’re paying $1,400 for a product aimed at automating your chores.
Winner: Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni Which robot vacuum and mop combo is best? If your home consists primarily of hard floors, then the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni is a solid choice. Not only does it offer impressive mopping skills, but its square shape allows it to easily clean edges and slide under furniture. The ability to clean and dry its mops is the icing on the cake, making it the better option for households with hard floors.
However, the iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ is still a solid option for homes with a mixture of carpet and hard floors. Its retractable mopping pad is leagues better than the 15mm retractable mopping pads found on the X2 Omni, making it a great tool for high-pile carpets.
Editors' Recommendations Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? The best October Prime Day robot vacuum deals happening now iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ vs. Roomba Combo j7+: which is the best robot vacuum? iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ robot vacuum and mop is perfect for high-pile carpet Best Roomba deals: Robot vacuums on sale as low as $180 Robot Vacuums Smart Home The Roomba Combo j7+ is getting two new family members, as iRobot is expanding its lineup of robot vacuum and mops with the Combo j5+ and Combo i5+. Both devices are now up for preorder, with an expected launch date of September 3.
Unlike the expensive Combo j7+, the Combo j5+ and Combo i5+ are lower-priced options that offer many of the same features. The j5+ is a particular standout, allowing you to swap between vacuuming and mopping to just vacuuming by switching out its bin. Its charging dock can hold up to 60 days of debris before it needs to be manually emptied, and the robot itself boasts AI that can identify cords, shoes, and other hazards scattered throughout your home.
Smart Home The Dyson 360 Vis Nav is one of the most expensive robot vacuums available, and it comes with a few impressive features you won’t find on other models with lower price tags. However, the Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni has established itself as one of the best robot vacuums, thanks to its ability to vacuum, mop, empty its dustbin, and clean itself after each session.
So which is best for your smart home? Here’s a look at the Dyson 360 Vis Nav 360 and Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni to help you decide.
Pricing and availability Smart Home Owning a gadget that can automatically vacuum and mop your home is arguably one of the best ways to cut down on your weekly list of chores. Gone are the days of breaking out your mop and constantly emptying your dustbin – with robot vacuum-mop combos, much of your cleaning routine can be automated.
These useful little drones might all share a similar, circular design, but their cleaning prowess can vary greatly. And unless you know what you’re looking for, it’s difficult to figure out which one is better suited for your home than others. Thankfully, there are plenty of great options available in today's market. Here’s a look at the best robot vacuum mop combos of 2023, including picks for all budgets and home-cleaning needs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
