Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How long does a Ring Video Doorbell battery last? By Jon Bitner and Tyler Lacoma Close A number of Ring’s Video Doorbell models are wireless, including the standard 2020 model, as well as Doorbell 4 and Doorbell Battery Plus. These smart doorbells use battery packs that you periodically remove and charge. The advantage is that you don’t have to worry about wiring projects and can easily place the Doorbell in an optimal position to get the best view of your porch in a do-it-yourself (DIY) project.
How often does a Ring Doorbell need to be charged? Can I keep my Ring Video Doorbell battery from draining too fast? What happens when a Ring Doorbell battery dies? Do I have to fully charge a Ring Video Doorbell battery? But since those battery packs require a bit more maintenance (you’ll get alerts when they need recharging), buyers often want to know just how often they’ll be expected to recharge them and if any long-term replacement costs are involved. Here’s what you should know.
How often does a Ring Doorbell need to be charged? Image used with permission by copyright holder From a full charge, the official rating of Ring Doorbell batteries is anywhere from six to 12 months (ratings vary based on models) before needing a recharge. Newer models tend to have better ratings, such as 10 to 12 months.
Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 New Wyze Video Doorbell v2 offers microSD card slot, 2K resolution for just $40 Ecobee takes on Ring, Arlo with its first smart doorbell camera This is … optimistic. You see, video doorbells like Ring’s use motion sensors to activate , turning on the video camera and recording the current footage until the motion stops — or generally, for a few seconds. Ring says that its ratings are designed for average use, or around three to four “events” every 24 hours. Their batteries typically need to be recharged after 1,000 activations.
However, video doorbells are typically pointed away from the home, toward streets or sidewalks. That means that they can be triggered by things like people walking their dogs or even cars driving past a house. AI technology can, to an extent, identify things like cars and avoid turning on the camera, but it’s not always reliable and may even vary based on the type of subscription plan you choose.
So, in practice, video doorbells like Ring’s may not last as long as the manual says. A Ring Video Doorbell can often need recharging every three to six months, which is more in line with the other video doorbells we have tested. Others have found that their Ring batteries drain in just a few weeks, which may happen if the doorbell keeps detecting passing cars on a busier street.
For example, the popular new Ring Battery Doorbell Plus is rated for up to eight months of use on a single charge. However, many users are reporting that they need to swap out the batteries after a few months. Keep in mind that there are several ways to improve video doorbell battery life , but if you live in a busy neighborhood, expect to be swapping batteries frequently.
Can I keep my Ring Video Doorbell battery from draining too fast? Ring There are a few things you can try to help preserve battery life. If possible, angle the video doorbell so that it doesn’t face a street or sidewalk, or at least faces them as little as possible. This can cut down on things that may trigger events. You may also want to avoid models or settings that capture video preview footage before an event or take periodic photo snapshots for a daily timeline — these things may drain batteries faster. Additionally, Ring suggests taking these steps specific to its devices: Some Ring Doorbells have the ability to set Motion Zones. You can adjust Motion Zones to avoid busy streets and other areas so the sensor won’t trigger as easily or to lower the sensitivity overall if it’s becoming a problem. Always check to see if you need a Ring Protect plan to use these features.
Use your settings to disable the Ring Doorbell at the busiest times of the day. You won’t get notifications, but it will help save on battery life.
If you use Ring Smart Alerts as part of a Ring Protect plan, look for an option to change these Smart Alerts to Standard or Light mode. This may help the video doorbell use less battery power throughout the day.
Finally, note that this is an official Solar Charger for certain Ring Video Doorbells.
 If your doorbell is in a spot that gets a lot of sunlight, you can use this charger to automatically recharge the battery, so you’ll have to worry about it a lot less.
It’s also worth noting that your local weather can impact the battery life of your Ring doorbell. Extreme temperatures are known to reduce battery life — so folks up in Alaska or down in Texas might see numbers much lower than folks living in Los Angeles.
What happens when a Ring Doorbell battery dies? Image used with permission by copyright holder The battery should last for at least several years without dying entirely or failing to hold a useful charge. If it does die completely, you can find replacement packs on Amazon and similar sites. Just make sure that you get the right battery for your model, as they can vary between video doorbells. If the battery fails within the first year, Ring’s warranty will typically cover a free battery replacement.
If the battery has simply run out of charge, you can recharge it with the included charging cable. You’ll need to remove the faceplate to get to the battery, though that only requires the removal of a single screw. Your Ring app should let you know when the battery is about to run out.
Do I have to fully charge a Ring Video Doorbell battery? Yes, it’s a good idea. Today’s rechargeable batteries generally don’t suffer from overcharging, so you should wait until the battery is fully recharged before returning it to the doorbell. Sometimes a partially-charged battery can also cause incorrect battery alerts when placed in the doorbell, too.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? The best video doorbells for 2023 Ring celebrates Halloween by adding spooky Quick Replies to its video doorbells What is a smart lock and how does it work? Best Ring doorbell deals: Home security camera bundles and sales Home Security Video Doorbells Smart Home Ring launched the Pet Profile feature in 2022, giving app users an easier way to help locate lost pets. Today, the company is doubling down on its pet-rescuing efforts with the reveal of the Ring Pet Tag -- an affordable gadget designed to make it easier than ever to find your missing companion.
The Ring Pet Tag attaches to your pet’s collar and features a QR code on the back. When someone finds your pet and scans this QR code, you’ll get a notification that your lost companion has been found. And if you’ve set up a Pet Profile, the person who found your pet will get details about their health conditions so they can better watch them until you pick them up.
Smart Home Security cameras are as affordable as ever, and whether you’re looking for one of the best home security cameras or one of the best wireless security cameras, they’re pieces of tech you can often find a discount on. This is certainly the case right now, as significant discounts are taking place on a variety of security camera models by Arlo, Ring and Blink, among others. We’ve done the heavy lifting of tracking down the best security camera deals you can find right now, so read onward if you’re in the market for an affordable way to keep an eye on your home and surroundings.
Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera — $70, was $130 The Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera is one of the better wireless cameras out there. Arlo is a brand that’s become a staple in home security cameras. The Essential Spotlight Camera is easy to install and take down for charging, and it offers the conveniences you’ll find in most wireless cameras. These include easy wireless connectivity to your home’s wifi network, which often needs to be done with a hub. This camera has connectivity built right in without the need for additional peripheral equipment. It has a motion sensor and an infrared mode for seeing at night. It has a two-way audio, which can be a good way to ward off intruders or talk with people making deliveries.
Smart Home The cost of installing security cameras varies widely, and there are multiple factors you need to consider beyond the initial price. If you choose to have them professionally installed, expect to pay more than if you put them up yourself. You’ll also want to look at ongoing subscriptions and memberships, which are often required for most products -- including popular ones from Ring, Blink, and Arlo.
Trying to figure out your budget before investing in security cameras? Here’s a closer look at every expense you’ll incur during the process.
How much will installation add to your bill? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
