Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to save Blink videos to USB By Jon Bitner Close If you want to access cloud storage for your Blink devices, you’ll need to spring for a monthly Blink membership.
 However, anyone who doesn’t want to pay a monthly fee still has the option to save videos to a local USB drive – though you'll need a secondary device to get it working properly.
How to save Blink videos to USB How to view Blink videos saved to USB Difficulty Duration What You Need Blink camera Sync Module 2 Blink smartphone app Here’s everything you need to know about saving Blink videos to USB, along with tips on how to view them.
Blink How to save Blink videos to USB Blink allows you to save clips to a USB drive, but it requires the Sync Module 2 – an optional purchase for your Blink devices. With your Blink camera and Sync Module 2 installed, here’s what you’ll need to do.
Step 1: Ensure your Sync Module 2 is connected to your Blink account. This can be done by selecting the “ + ” icon on the home screen of the Blink app, then selecting Add Device and Sync Module.
 Simply scan the QR code on your device, and you’ll be guided through the rest of the process.
Step 2: With your Sync Module 2 connected to your account, insert a supported USB drive into the USB port. Blink notes that any self-powered USB-A drive formatted to ExFAT, FAT32, or FAT will work with the Sync Module 2. The USB drive must also be between 1GB and 256GB.
Best robot vacuum Black Friday deals: Save on Roomba, Shark, more Reolink’s Black Friday security deals are the best time to secure your property How to add Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit Step 3: With the USB drive inserted, any clips recorded by cameras on the same system as the Sync Module 2 will be saved locally on the drive.
Step 4: If you’re not a Blink Plan member, motion clips will be saved directly to the USB.
Step 5: If you are a Blink Plan member, your clips will be backed up to the USB every 24 hours.
How to view Blink videos saved to USB Blink videos saved to a USB drive can be viewed directly through your Blink app. Simply navigate to the Clips menu and toggle over to the Home Module section. Keep in mind that these will only appear here if you are not a paying Blink Plan member. If you are a member, you’ll need to view them through the cloud.
Regardless of whether you’re a paying member or not, everyone with a Blink camera can remove their USB and view stored clips on a computer.
Editors' Recommendations Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more It’s time for a new kind of portable power: Yoshino B4000 SST [Sponsored] NordicTrack Black Friday deals: Save on treadmills, exercise bikes Peloton Black Friday deals: Save on Peloton Bike, Peloton Guide, more Home Security How-To Guides Smart Home While many devices use built-in or sealed batteries, there are still plenty of devices like TV remotes and children's toys that require you to add your own AA or AAA batteries. Thankfully, Black Friday deals also include these with plenty of excellent deals around on the best rechargeable batteries as well as conventional AA and AAA batteries. If you're looking to stock up, check out all the deals we've found below to help you save big.
Best AA battery Black Friday deals AA batteries are used for many different purposes. For instance, they can be used for a flashlight, a calculator, a digital thermometer, along with smoke detectors or a traditional wall clock. They can also be used for remotes along with toys, so they're a very versatile type of battery. Old school gamers will likely fondly remember them as 'Gameboy' batteries referring to swapping out batteries for the Nintendo Gameboy. While many devices may use batteries that can be charged via a USB cable or similar, there are still enough using AA batteries that it's handy to have some spare at home.
Powermax 24-Count AA Batteries -- Smart Home Tapo, a TP-Link brand known for crafting affordable smart home products, has just launched the C120 Indoor/Outdoor Home Security Camera. The Tapo C120 carries a low price of $40, but it's packed full of sought-after features like 2K video capture, HD night vision, and IP66 weatherproofing.
Tapo designed the C120 to be cheap to purchase and convenient to install anywhere on your property. Along with its affordable price, the camera includes a 9.8-foot power cord to reach far-away outlets. It's also built with a magnetic base that lets you quickly mount it to metal surfaces. If you can't find any metal on your property or in your home, you can use the included flexible mount.
Smart Home Arlo is expanding its home security offerings with the new Arlo Total Security subscriptions. These plans start at $10 per month and provide members with not just professional monitoring services, but also all the hardware they need to secure their property.
Not to be confused with the existing Arlo Secure lineup, Arlo Total Security plans are an entirely new set of monthly subscriptions. There are three tiers to choose from, though all include professional monitoring, hardware (such as sensors and cameras), and free shipping. The cheapest tier is Starter at $10 per month, featuring a security keypad, All-In-One Sensor, and Yard Sign. The Advanced with Video plan is the most expensive at $50 per month and is loaded with cameras and sensors.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
