Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The 5 weirdest smart home gadgets of 2023 By Jon Bitner Close Smart home gadgets come in all shapes and sizes — but some are undoubtedly weirder than others.
Video doorbells , security cameras , and smart thermostats are common in 2023, but did you know there’s such a thing as a smart toilet? Or how about a smart litter box? Numi 2.0 Smart Toilet Litter-Robot 4 Oura Smart Rings Revolution InstaGlo Smart Toaster Tesla Smart Pillow Here’s a look at five of the weirdest smart home gadgets of 2023. Some of them are surprisingly useful — and might make a worthy addition to the right household.
Numi 2.0 Smart Toilet Image used with permission by copyright holder As far as smart toilets are concerned, the Numi 2.0 is about as smart as it gets. Clocking in at a staggering $11,500, this deluxe appliance lets you adjust its ambient colored lighting, features a built-in speaker system, and there’s even a heated seat. It syncs with the Kohler Konnect app so you can easily control all the action, which also includes the option to enable a power-saving mode or perform an “emergency flush” during power outages.
The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart home devices for 2023 The best video doorbells for 2023 Litter-Robot 4 Image used with permission by copyright holder Litter boxes are never fun to deal with, but that’s not true with the Litter-Robot 4.
 This self-cleaning litter box automatically sifts through litter, so you never have to scoop again. It’s also designed with the OdorTrap System, which limits the number of smells that seep into your living space. Toss in the ability to detect when a cat is inside, a companion smartphone app, and a quiet operating noise, and you’ve got a weird smart home gadget that’s surprisingly appealing.
Oura Smart Rings Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart Rings aren’t as weird as they used to be, but they’re still a rather unique category of smart gadgets. The Oura Smart Ring is at the top of its class, offering sleep, fitness, and health tracking without the need to wear a bulky smartwatch or install a sleep monitor in your home. They’re not cheap — with prices around $300 — but these strange little devices are a great alternative to traditional sleep and fitness trackers.
Revolution InstaGlo Smart Toaster Image used with permission by copyright holder Having trouble toasting your toast, or want to make the perfect bagel? The InstaGlo Smart Toaster is here to help. Featuring a massive touchscreen display that allows you to quickly cook up a variety of different items, this might be the best-looking toaster of 2023. Whether or not it’s worth $350 is another story, but there’s no denying it’s one of the weirdest smart home products you can find on the market. And if you want to get extra weird, you can bundle in a Panini Press that churns out flawless grilled cheeses and quesadillas.
Tesla Smart Pillow Tesla Though it’s not affiliated with the car company, the Tesla Smart Pillow is every bit as futuristic. With the ability to track your sleeping habits, play bedtime music, and act as a heating pad, this is arguably the smartest pillow on the planet. Aside from all the quirky features, most people should find it to be remarkably comfortable thanks to its memory foam construction. The only downside? It’s not yet available in the U.S., with its availability limited to select European countries.
Editors' Recommendations The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 Best robot mops of 2023 Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 Emporia resolves issue with Smart Plugs that spurred recall Smart Home Aside from offering some of the best smart thermostats on the market, Ecobee is also a provider of smart home security systems. And like most home security systems, you'll need a monthly membership to make the most out of your gadgets. But is an Ecobee Smart Security subscription worth it? Here's a look at the two different plans available to customers, along with which homes will benefit from each plan.
What is Ecobee Smart Security Standard? Ecobee Smart Security Standard costs $5 per month or $50 per year. It doesn't offer professional monitoring but does save videos for one camera for up to 30 days. It also benefits from arm and disarm assistance, smart motion and entry alerts, smoke alarm detection, freeze detection, and the ability to control the system from your smartphone app.
Smart Home The refreshed Apple HomePod is one of the best smart speakers on the market. It offers booming sound, a great design, and access to the Siri voice assistant. It also costs quite a bit of cash -- making it one of the most expensive smart speakers. On the other side of the pricing spectrum is the Echo Pop, which is remarkably cheap and gives you access to the Alexa voice assistant.
But is the HomePod (Gen 2) worth the added cost? Or are you better off opting for the affordable Echo Pop? Here's a closer look at the two smart speakers to help you figure out which is best for your needs.
Pricing and design Smart Home Smart displays sit at the very center of most smart homes. With the ability to sync with other gadgets to issue commands, give you daily updates, or serve as a second screen to binge your favorite shows, smart displays are remarkably versatile devices.
The smart display market is more saturated today than ever before, with products from Amazon, Google, Facebook, and more vying for your attention. Google has even revealed that the upcoming Pixel Tablet will double as a smart display, and Apple might be throwing its hat into the ring sooner than expected.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
