Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Which Amazon Echo should you buy? By Tyler Lacoma Close If you’re a fan of Alexa’s gentle tones and like using voice commands around your home — including setting up smart routines or enabling Alexa Guard for some extra safety while you’re away — then you may be thinking about getting an Amazon Echo smart speaker. Or maybe you want to give an Amazon Show to a family member or friend to make it easier to communicate with them. But what should you get? Echo 4th-generation Echo Dot 5th-gen Echo Dot with Clock 5th-gen Echo Dot Kids 5th-gen Echo Studio Echo Dot 3rd-gen Echo Pop Echo Show There are quite a few Amazon Echo models available, with more arriving all the time, so we know it can be confusing to figure out the latest models and which may be the right pick for you. Don’t worry. Our guide is here to help with our picks for the best and newest Echos available, along with details on who they’re suited for.
Echo 4th-generation Image used with permission by copyright holder This larger Echo speaker is the flagship model for the Amazon Echo line and an excellent place to start if you aren’t sure which one to get. For the fourth generation, Amazon reinvented the Echo’s design into an orb-like speaker with 360-degree audio and an indicator ring around the base.
Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? Amazon Astro: everything you need to know about this home robot What is Amazon Alexa, and what can it do? The sound on this Echo is better than ever, capable of filling an entire room with sound, and it’s available in three different shades to match your home. That makes it a great pick for a central location where it can play music for the house or control a variety of smart gadgets with a few well-directed voice commands. It also supports Zigbee devices in addition to newer protocols, so it’s one of the better speakers for those who still have those around.
If you are worried about privacy, the Amazon Echo 4th-gen (and every other Echo on our list) comes with the ability to manually turn on the mic at any time, and you can always customize how Alexa listens to and saves your voice commands.
Finally, the Echo 4th-gen is reasonably priced compared to other smart speakers, which may make it a great entry device for someone who knows they like music while also wanting to get comfortable with Alexa.
Echo Dot 5th-gen Image used with permission by copyright holder The Echo Dot was already in a good spot, carefully mimicking the Echo 4th-gen with its smaller orb design, but the 5th-gen remake took it to another level, especially when it comes to better bass and improved sound overall. This little speaker can put out a surprising amount of music and makes a great companion for a desktop computer, etc.
But the sound wasn’t the only thing that Amazon updated with this model. It now has temperature and motion sensors, which you can link to specific smart devices, like automatically turning up a thermostat if a particular room is getting too cold or turning on smart lights when someone walks into a room. And if you use an Eero mesh router, this little speaker can even act as a satellite router to help you expand your coverage in areas where it may be poor.
That makes the Dot 5th-gen a perfect pick for somehow who already has an Echo or wants one specifically for their workspace, from desks and crafting tables to workbenches in the garage. It’s also a good choice for people who like smart homes in general and are happy to link up their smart devices.
Echo Dot with Clock 5th-gen Image used with permission by copyright holder There are a couple of different varieties of the Echo Dot 5th-gen, each with its own specialties. This one, for example, comes with an LED clock face on the front. That makes it a great pick to serve as a bedside radio and alarm (alarms, morning routines, and LED brightness are all adjustable via the Alexa app) or anywhere else that you may want a visible clock. All the other capabilities of the Echo Dot 5th-gen are still here too, which means it has plenty of audio power and can help manage your smart home (plus those privacy features we mentioned that come with all the latest Echos).
Echo Dot Kids 5th-gen.
This kids’ model does a few different things, too. First, it’s available in fun alternative skins like a round lil’ owl or a happy dragon (hey, if you like those better than the other colors, we won’t judge you for getting one for yourself, either). You can also pair it with the Echo Glow, which is a small nightlight orb that’s fun for play or keeping a bedroom illuminated. Finally, it comes with a free year of Amazon Kids+, a subscription for kid-friendly content on a platform designed for safety. Parents can use a wide variety of controls over what their kids can access or do, and it comes with a two-year guarantee in case of accidents.
Echo Studio Amazon Those who take their audio seriously will want to turn to the Echo Studio.
 It takes up more room than the other models but comes with unparalleled sound thanks to five internal speakers and automatic tuning to adjust the sound to the room you are in. The Studio also continues to get important updates, such as the recent firmware update adding support for Spatial Audio powered by Dolby Atmos, available with an Amazon Music Unlimited subscription. It’s the best option for pairing with a home theater setup or for serious audiophiles.
Echo Dot 3rd-gen Image used with permission by copyright holder Yes, this puck-shaped Echo Dot is a few years out of date. But it’s also really, really affordable at around $18 the last time it went on discount, and it’s still widely available at places like Target and Best Buy. That makes this Echo a good choice for those on a tight budget, especially if you’re just dipping your foot into the voice assistant world and want to start small. Amazon also sells it as a bundle with a smart bulb, so you can use it to get started creating a smart home ! Echo Pop Amazon / Amazon The Echo Pop is one of the newest additions to the Echo family. It’s also the most affordable. Clocking in at just $40, it’s not looking to replace the Echo Studio or compete with premium smart speakers. Instead, it’s a great way to gain access to the Alexa smart assistant without spending too much cash.
It’s also a great-looking device, designed with a front-facing speaker, a unique light bar, and several available colors. That front-facing design is a bit limiting, however, as it can’t throw its sound across a room as well as the 360-degree Dot. But considering this is $10 cheaper ($20 compared to the Dot with Clock), it’s a minor trade-off. If you need a closer look at the two, be sure to check out our comparison of the Echo Dot and Echo Pop.
Our review of the Pop found it to be a surprisingly well-rounded little device. Its sound gets muddy when turned up too loud, but it should serve you well as an entry into the smart home world. As an added bonus, it also works as an Eero extender — giving you better wireless coverage throughout your house.
Echo Show Nick Mokey / Digital Trends Of course, there is another option for Echo fans: Echo Show devices, which add a touchscreen to the mix and enable a variety of streaming options, including shows, face chats, and slideshows. We’re big fans of models like the Echo Show 15, which is large enough to serve as a mini TV in places like your kitchen. The new Echo Show 8 is also a great choice, earning high marks for its impressive audio quality and vibrant screen.
There are several different Echo Show models to choose from, so you may want to take a look at our list of the best smart displays to further narrow down your options.
Editors' Recommendations The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 Amazon’s Echo family expands with an on-wall hub, smart glasses, and more Best Amazon Echo deals: The Show, Pop and Dot are on sale Best Amazon Alexa accessories: lights, plugs, thermostats, cameras, and more Ring Video Doorbell buying guide: Which is best for you? Amazon Smart Home Amazon has agreed to pay $25 million to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to settle charges over privacy violations linked to its digital assistant, Alexa.
In a separate case, Amazon-owned Ring will pay $5.8 million for violations of users’ privacy.
Smart Home Amazon’s Echo devices come in all shapes and sizes -- including cylinders, orbs, and screens. But there’s one thing they all have in common: Every Echo houses the Alexa voice assistant and uses an LED indicator light to provide clues on what Alexa may be doing right now. On classic Echo speakers, this light took the form of a pulsing ring, which can change to different colors based on activity.
We’ve come across many Alexa users who have noticed that their Echo device has started showing a yellow ring and aren’t really sure what that means or what they should do about it. A yellow ring isn’t typically anything to worry about, but our FAQ will go over the details so you know what’s going on! What does the yellow ring look like exactly? Your Echo device will pulse a yellow color that will die down for a few seconds, then pulse again. This may or may not be accompanied by an audio alert, one that's easy to miss if no one is around paying attention, which is why it’s common to be surprised by a yellow pulse from your Echo.
Smart Home If you're looking to add a smart display to your home, the Amazon Echo Show is a great option. Bringing the best of Alexa into the visual realm, the Echo Show allows you to tap into real-time video from your home's smart security system, have video calls with friends and family using Alexa's Drop In feature, stream from Hulu and Prime Video, run photo slideshows, and so much more.
But glitches happen, and the Echo Show is not without its small trail of troubles. Fortunately, many of these issues have straightforward fixes. In this deep dive, we'll be taking a look at the most common Echo Show problems and how you can fix them.
Echo Show screen is flickering Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
