Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home News Blink Outdoor Camera 4 launches with Person Detection, new design, 2-year battery life By Jon Bitner Close The Blink Outdoor Camera 4 is the newest addition to the Blink catalog, offering the same impressive battery life as its predecessor while bundling in better motion detection skills and a sleek, updated design. The camera is now available for $120, which includes a Sync Module 2.
One of the first things you’ll notice about the Blink Outdoor Camera 4 is its new look. It’s still a solid black square like the old Blink Outdoor Camera 3, but its camera has been repositioned from the center of the device to the top corner. It also looks a bit more streamlined than the outgoing model, with fewer accents and indentations across its front.
Blink The big selling point of the Blink Outdoor Camera 4, however, is Person Detection, which gives you more detailed alerts and can identify when a person is captured in your motion zones as opposed to an animal or other object. Of course, like all other Blink products with the feature, you’ll need a Blink subscription to access the feature.
The Blink Outdoor Camera 4 also boasts better image quality, enhanced low-light footage capture, and a wider field of view for comprehensive coverage of your property. Best of all, Blink managed to do all that without hurting battery life — you can still expect to get two years of runtime on two AA batteries.
Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? New Ring and Blink cams bring extended range, battery life, 3D motion detection SimpliSafe now offers live home monitoring with new Smart Alarm Wireless Indoor Security Camera Aside from those changes, everything else that made the Outdoor 3 so appealing is still here. That includes weatherproofing, easy access through the Blink app, and a simple setup process.
For more great products, be sure to check out our roundup of the best outdoor cameras of 2023.
Editors' Recommendations The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Can you use a Blink Outdoor Camera without a subscription? The Wyze Cam Floodlight Pro is a premium outdoor camera with tons of AI features Ring’s new indoor camera features a built-in privacy shutter Home Security Tech News Smart Home The Blink Mini Indoor Camera and the Arlo Essential Indoor Cam are two of the best indoor cameras of 2023. Both provide you with an easy way to keep an eye on your home while you're away -- but with two remarkably different price tags (the Arlo clocks in at $100, while the Blink Mini is just $35), you might be wondering if the Arlo Essential Indoor Cam is worth the added investment.
Before you rush off and buy either product, here’s a closer look at the Blink Mini and Arlo Essential Indoor Cam to determine which is best for your needs and budget.
Video quality Smart Home The Blink Outdoor Camera is an affordable, versatile security camera that is just at home in the pouring rain as it is tucked away in a corner of your entryway. The camera has an MSRP of $100, but frequently goes on sale for around $70 or less. On its own, the Blink Outdoor Camera has infrared night vision, 1080p streaming and recording, two-way audio, and up to two years of battery life on just a pair of AA batteries.
That's just on its own, though. You can improve the functionality of the cameras thanks to two accessories: Solar panel housing and a floodlight. The camera snaps into a built-in mount, while a short cable connects the camera to the accessory. This cable will either provide power via the solar panel or will allow the camera's motion sensors to activate the floodlights.
Smart Home It looks like households equipped with older, legacy Arlo products won’t have to rush out and buy new gear after all, as the company has changed course on its end-of-life policy that was revealed last month. Previously, several aging cameras and video doorbells in the Arlo lineup were expected to lose access to seven-day cloud storage, notifications, and future updates -- but after reaching out to its community, the company has decided to extend coverage instead of roll it back.
As products age, it’s standard practice for companies to stop supporting them. The time and resources needed to manage outdated products aren’t insignificant, and newer products that are pegged as their replacement quickly become the new focus. However, there was a bit of backlash when Arlo announced its original plans, as a handful of the devices scheduled to be sunset had been released just over five years ago.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
