Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home News Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni boasts a new square design and improved vacuuming skills By Jon Bitner Close The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni was officially revealed today, showing off a bold square design, increased suction, and retractable mops so it can vacuum and mop in a single run. It’s a big step up from the old X1 Omni, and it’s a solid addition to the Deebot lineup — which already includes the well-reviewed T20 Omni.
As one of the most expensive robot vacuums in the Deebot catalog, the X2 Omni is packed with premium features. This includes an impressive 8,000Pa of suction, two rotating mopping pads that apply pressure to the floor while in use, and improved navigation and mapping abilities thanks to a dual-laser lidar system.
Ecovacs The X2 Omni is also built with support for Alexa , Google Assistant , and Siri , allowing you to integrate it with the rest of your smart home.
One of the biggest departures from the X1 Omni is the new square design. Ecovacs says this allows for superior “edge-to-edge” cleaning and allows it to better navigate most household obstacles. It also allowed the designers to install longer and wider brushes for faster cleaning times.
Ecovacs The X2 Omni dock is slightly smaller than the outgoing model, though it packs in all the features you’d expect from a premium robot vacuum. This includes a dustbin to hold up to 60 days of debris before needing to be emptied, a mop cleaning station that uses hot water before performing a drying sequence, and the ability to automatically refill the robot’s clean water reservoir.
How to fix a robot vacuum that stops moving Dyson 360 Vis Nav vs. Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni: which is the better robot vacuum? Eufy’s new X9 Pro Robovac offers automated mopping and vacuuming for less than $1,000 The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni launches on October 3 and costs $1,499. We’ll be putting the device through its paces to see how it stacks up to the competition, and if the new square design is as impressive as it seems. Expect to see our full review sometime in October.
Editors' Recommendations The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni vs. iRobot Roomba Combo j9+: Which premium robot vacuum is best? Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni vs. Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni: Is the T20 worth it? Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni brings hot water washin, mop-lifting skills to Deebot lineup New Roborock S7 Max Ultra boasts maintenance-free dock, impressive mopping skills Appliances Robot Vacuums Tech News Smart Home The Roborock S8 Pro Ultra and Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni are two of the newest (and most expensive) robot vacuums to hit the market. They both come from companies with reputations for making powerful, high-end products -- but is one more fit for your home than the other? Here’s a comparison of the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra and Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni to help you decide which one to bring into your house.
Pricing and availability Smart Home Robot vacuums have come a long way over the past few years. What started out as a niche device prone to falling down the stairs or getting tangled in pet toys is now able to keep your floors clean for weeks on end without any manual input. They come in all shapes, sizes, and budgets -- but if you’re looking to get the most for your money, you need to spring for a premium model that knows how to automatically empty its dustbin.
Some robot vacuums are more headache than helper The appeal of robot vacuums is simple. Instead of having to vacuum your home every few days, these circular little monsters can suck up debris, pet fur, dirt, and everything else lurking in your carpets without the need to dirty your hands.
Smart Home Ecovacs is one of the biggest names in the world of robot vacuums, and it’s looking to continue that dominance in 2023 with three new product launches. Ranging in price from $650 to $1,300, the trio of DEEBOT robot vacuums is designed for smart homes of different sizes and different needs, ensuring there’s something for every family.
The Deebot T10 Omni is the most compelling of the three -- and it’s also the most expensive at $1,300. It brings a lot to the table, however, as it features the new Ozmo Turbo 2.0 mopping system with spinning brushes, the ability to take voice commands without a third-party product, and a docking station with auto-cleaning and auto-emptying capabilities. It’s designed for homes of all sizes, but it should be the most enticing for large families that see plenty of foot traffic (or paw traffic) through their house.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
