Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Amazon’s Echo family expands with an on-wall hub, smart glasses, and more By Michael Bizzaco Close Another year, another batch of new devices from Amazon’s fall event.
 This year’s showcase had plenty of newly announced gear and improvements to some much-loved Alexa-powered products. From an all-new interactive touchscreen display for controlling all your smart home devices to a fresh set of Echo shades, many of these cutting-edge gadgets are already available for preorder. Here’s all the hardware we found out about today.
The all-new Echo Hub The Echo Show 8 (3rd Gen) has arrived An Echo Pop just for kids The new-and-improved Echo Frame The all-new Echo Hub Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends The all-new Echo Hub is being billed as the ultimate smart home control center. Could we call it a wall-mountable Echo Show? Perhaps, but where the Echo Show divides attention between device management, web searches, and entertainment, the Echo Hub is designed to handle home automation above all other activities. It’s almost like a revamped and miniature version of the Echo Show 15 , actually.
Available for preorder at $180, the Echo Hub has an eight-inch touchscreen that gives you access to a fully-customizable smart home dashboard. Upon walking up to the Echo Hub, a feature called Adaptive Content automatically kicks in. This automatically switches the main screen from a clock to a dashboard of smart home controls and settings. When you’re using the dashboard, you’ll be able to do everything from arming your home security system to launching a routine or widget. You’ll also be able to pull up multiple camera feeds from both indoor and outdoor lenses.
At Amazon’s annual device event, AI was everywhere — and nowhere The Amazon Echo Hub is almost the whole-home hub I’ve always wanted Everything announced at Amazon’s fall 2023 devices event When we saw tried the Echo Hub in person , it was wall-mounted, but you’ll also be able to set it on a table. Compatible with over 140,000 different smart home devices, the Echo Hub can also be used as a hub for Zigbee, Sidewalk, Thread, Bluetooth, and Matter. And as far as networking this bad boy, you’ll be able to do so over Wi-Fi or with Ethernet and a Power Over Ethernet (PoE) adapter.
Priced at $180, the Echo Hub will be available later this year.
The Echo Show 8 (3rd Gen) has arrived Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends The Echo Show 8 is coming to smart homes soon, and we’ve already had an opportunity to go hands on with latest generation of Amazon’s tried-and-true smart display. Available for preorder at $150, the Echo Show 8 sports improvements both inside and out, with one of the biggest differences between this iteration and the 2021 model being an edge-to-edge glass screen and subtle curvatures that definitely make the new smart display feel more modern.
There’s also an upgraded audio pipeline that helps to filter out background noise for clearer sound during video calls. The Echo Show 8 also boasts a room-sensing mic that will calibrate audio based on the listening environment, allowing your Echo Show 8 to deliver exceptional sound in kitchens, bedrooms, offices, or wherever else you’d like to place the smart display.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Oh, and that Adaptive Content feature we talked about on the Echo Hub will also be available on both the new Echo Show 8 and the second-gen model next month (Amazon claims Adaptive Content will be added to other Echo devices early next year).
The latest Echo Show 8 also includes Zigbee, Sidewalk, Thread , Bluetooth, and Matter support, allowing Alexa to control a wide range of smart home devices. And speaking of everyone’s favorite voice assistant, the new Echo Show 8’s upgraded processor delivers up to 40% faster response times for local controls. This means when you ask Alexa to turn on your smart lights, there should be very little delay to contend with, as low as 300 milliseconds.
The Echo Show 8 is available for preorder and will sell for $150 in both Glacier White and Charcoal. The device officially hits shelves October 25. Fans of the smart display can also look forward to the Echo Show 8 Photos Edition for $160, which should be available later this fall. The Photos Edition also comes with six free months of PhotoPlus that will auto-renew at $2 per month after the trial period.
An Echo Pop just for kids Amazon Amazon’s Echo Pop is the company’s smallest smart speaker, and now kids will get to enjoy the bite-sized smart home savant, too. The all-new Echo Pop for Kids is loaded with fun Alexa-powered games, kid-friendly audiobooks, exciting themes, and many more features. The speaker is also shipping with two exclusive themes: Marvel’s Avengers and Disney’s Princesses. Fans of either Disney-owned property will also be able to hear hidden Alexa phrases by asking just the right superhero and princess questions via the digital companion.
Priced at $50, the Echo Pop for Kids is available for preorder today and also comes with six months of Amazon Kids+ for free.
The new-and-improved Echo Frame Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Amazon’s next-gen Echo Frame glasses come in five unique styles, including sunglasses, prescription-ready, and blue light-filtering. A total redesign also gives us glasses that are 15% lighter and engineered with premium materials for better wear-and-tear protection. When we tried the new Echo Frames , we found them remarkably comfortable.
The new Echo Frame will also deliver up to six hours of battery life, bring improved audio architecture for better sound clarity and improved bass, and enhanced Alexa learning tech for faster responses when you’re on the move.
Carrera Eyewear has also partnered with Amazon for the Carrera Smart Glasses. Powered by Alexa , these new glasses will be available in two designs: Carrera Cruiser and Carrera Sprinter.
Both the new Echo Frame and Carrera Smart Glasses will sell for $270, and if you’re interested in signing up for preorder alerts, you can do so right through Amazon.
Editors' Recommendations Which Amazon Echo should you buy? Adding AI to Alexa is the brain transplant we’ve all been waiting for I tried the Amazon Echo Show 8, a smart display that transforms when you get close At long last, Amazon brings AI features to Alexa The most common Echo Show problems and how to fix them Amazon Tech News Smart Home Amazon has officially rolled out Matter support to a wide variety of devices, including 17 Echo products, as well as smart plugs, light bulbs, and switches. The company says that this is only “phase one” of the rollout, with Matter heading to even more smart home gadgets in 2023.
According to Amazon, this phased rollout will allow the team to bring Matter support to the most popular devices on the market while ensuring the platform remains stable. The list of products included in phase one is quite extensive and encapsulates some of the most popular products on the market. Echo devices were the primary target of the rollout. Here’s a look at every Echo device that now supports Matter: Smart Home Amazon announced everything from new Echos, to security cameras, to Fire TVs, and more at its September 28 devices and services event. The new hardware underscores a commitment to what the company dubs "ambient intelligence:" every interaction should be intuitive, proactive, and personalized to help you enjoy the here and now. What's the secret sauce that lets Amazon deliver these contextual experiences? Sensors. Many of the products announced today come with sensors designed to help monitor and enhance a person's environment and experience. Of course, you can adjust the settings to still keep your data private.
Most of the products will be available later this year, with others (ahem, Astro) coming one day. We've rounded up everything Amazon announced today.
Amazon smart speakers Smart Home There was a time when it was easy to choose which Amazon Echo device to buy because there wasn’t much of a selection. These days, Amazon has an entire stable of devices ready to respond and carry out your commands. That makes things a bit trickier for those who are looking to pick up their first (or add another) Echo device among Prime Day Amazon Echo deals. You can also review some of the best deals year round.
We’ve tested and tried each Echo device to find the best of the lot. This year, we think it’s the Echo Show 10. With its high-quality 360-degree speaker, a large screen, and the ability to pan around the room to double as a security camera or video conferencing dynamo, it’s a great all-around choice. Even so, depending on how you want to use an Echo Show and how much space you have, there’s certainly a case to be made for other Echo devices.
Which Amazon Echo should you buy on Prime Day 2022? Echo Dot (4th Gen) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
