Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals News Uahpet’s iRetriever Ball Launcher can safely volley balls up to 80 feet for Fido By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with Uahpet.
A brand that loves pets as much as you Tell us more about the iRetriever Ball Launcher No hit and no hurt, indeed Almost by definition, pet or dog ball launchers are not the smartest toys you can buy your furry companion. Yes, they offer hours of fun, volleying balls, and sometimes treats, across your home, but they are often very limited — in terms of the throw distance — and could even be hazardous, especially for the decor in your residence. It’s not difficult to imagine a loose ball flying across the living room and breaking an expensive and beloved vase, or another decorative item in your home. Or, god forbid, launching a ball right into little Fido’s ribs. A great way to avoid this problem would be to equip a launcher with an intelligent obstacle-avoidance system, and that’s precisely what Uahpet has done. Most importantly, the Uahpet iRetriever Ball Launcher can launch balls up to 80 feet away, nearly two times that of competing systems. That volley distance is simply unmatched in comparable launchers.
But don’t worry, the launch distance is fully adjustable, so if your home isn’t big enough for an 80-foot throw, or your dog is just a little guy and can’t run that far, you can tone it down — launch distances range from 10 feet up to 80 feet. That intelligent object tracking we talked about, allows the launcher to stand down if there are objects in front of it, so it won’t launch balls into nearby items or belongings, but it also won’t launch the balls at your pet if they’re standing in front of the system. That adds a degree of safety that you won’t find elsewhere. Of course, there’s a lot more to Uahpet’s iRetriever Ball Launcher, so let’s take a closer look.
Learn More A brand that loves pets as much as you Image used with permission by copyright holder Before exploring the ball launcher, let’s discuss Uahpet, which has made a name for itself by providing smart pet solutions for dogs and cats alike. For example, dog owners will love the Self-Powered Wireless Dog Doorbell , perfect for training your best friend. They also offer a 2-in-1 Treat Dispensing Dog Puzzle Toy to keep your friends entertained and happy. The cat offerings are similar, from an automatic water fountain to a self-grooming cat brush or light-up cat nail trimmer.
 Uahpet has a strong grasp on what makes animal companions and their owners very happy.
The brand’s mission is to “improve harmonious human-pet interactions through science and love,” ultimately creating a stronger bond between pet and owner. It’s certainly a commendable mission and one that all pet parents can agree with.
Tell us more about the iRetriever Ball Launcher Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart and safe are two words that can be used to describe Uahpet’s iRetriever launcher, but also, automated — a word that anyone with a busy life will cherish. You already know that it can launch balls, and far, at a distance of up to 80 feet, with fully customizable launch settings if you don’t want it to go that far. What you don’t know is that it utilizes Tesla-inspired battery technology to ensure reliable, long-lasting power. In other words, it has the same high-quality battery tech found in Tesla vehicles, so you don’t have to worry about iRetriever shutting off on you, or your pet, mid-play. It has a built-in 4,000 mAh rechargeable battery, as well.
It features three launching modes, including a unique GT mode that supports 200 consecutive ball launches for a great play session with Fido. But when it comes to your best friend, safety is of the utmost concern. You’ll be pleased to know the ball is made of a non-toxic and chewable ETPU material, that combines durability and safety. It won’t harm your dog and they won’t be able to chew it up on the first go-round either. As you likely know, that’s great news because you won’t have to replace the ball constantly.
The Intelligent ToF Radar Detection Technology elevates the device, offering next-level experiences for little Fido and you. Through enhanced precision, it can detect nearby objects, items, and decor, but also where your pet is, so it will never launch a high-powered shot right at your dog’s body — doggos do love their zoomies. Three adjustable launch angles will keep your canine on their paws, as the game always remains thrilling and they never truly know which direction the ball is going to go.
No hit and no hurt, indeed Available exclusively on IndieGoGo from June 20, 2023, the Uahpet iRetriever Ball Launcher is set to delight pets and owners alike, with one prevailing idea — no hits and no hurts. The intelligent radar detection system ensures that balls are never volleyed into items, furniture, or decor, but most importantly, that balls are never shot at your dog, no matter how excited they get. Moreover, the ball is equal parts chewable yet durable, and non-toxic.
It’s an excellent source of entertainment, and because it’s automated it will keep your pet occupied even when you don’t necessarily have the time to dedicate. If you have a dog, you should definitely check it out, at the very least.
Learn More Editors' Recommendations The best Black Friday refrigerator deals you can shop right now 10 Dyson deals you can’t miss in Best Buy’s early Black Friday sale iRobot Braava Jet M6 robot mop is over $100 off right now Live in power with the Anker SOLIX F3800, its latest evolutionary power station Pet hair friendly bObsweep Robot Vacuum discounted from $570 to $180 Deals This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
As a pioneer and major contributor to innovation in the solar generator market, Jackery is gearing up to launch its newest flagship systems, the Jackery Solar Generator 1000 Plus and the Jackery Solar Generator 300 Plus, which will both make appearances at IFA 2023 in Berlin. These are the "most versatile solar generators ever created," and align perfectly with Jackery's mission to bring green energy to all.
First up is the Solar Generator 1000 Plus, which is positioned in a new category beyond its initial class, thanks to strong working performance. It comes with a large capacity of 1,264 watt-hours and has a high power output of 2,000 watts. It's a powerful and sustainable next-generation generator with ultra-fast charging.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Molekule.
Air purifiers will keep the indoor air quality inside your home or apartment healthy, but also will help remove odors from pets and break down other pollutants like bacteria, viruses, mold, and allergens. But while they are an excellent addition to any household, they're not typically adorned with stylish designs to match modern decor. More specifically, they can be an eyesore. That's not the case with Molekule's quaint yet effective air purifiers. Here's the best part, though. As part of the Molekule Labor Day sale, you can save $300 on the Air Pro and $75 on the Air Mini+, the brand's two most popular devices. These are intelligent air purifiers with app controls that employ PECO-HEPA filtration.
As you may know, true HEPA filters remove 99.97% of particles and pollutants, even at a microscopic level. But Molekule's PECO technology destroys what HEPA leaves behind, providing three layers of protection through light-activated treatments and more. The PECO tech eliminates organic pollutants and works alongside a carbon layer to remove extra odors and gases. In other words, the Air Pro or Air Mini+ will leave your house smelling fresh and your lungs feeling fresh, especially if you suffer from asthma or allergies. Those Labor Day deals will only be available until September 4th, so don't waste time if you're interested.
Smart Home An air fryer makes a great addition to any smart kitchen, and it can be a particularly enticing piece of tech for fitness enthusiasts or anyone looking to clean up their food intake. Today you can get a Crux 3-quart digital air fryer for only $30 at Best Buy. This is a pretty impressive sale price, as it saves you $50 from the air fryer’s regular price of $80. Free shipping is included with a purchase.
Why you should get the Crux 3-quart digital air fryer All of the best air fryers offer a cleaner, healthier way to cook food, and they’re a cool piece of tech to incorporate into your smart home as well. This pretty much sums up the Crux 3-quart digital air fryer as well. It allows you to make your favorite fried foods with the same delicious end product as traditional frying, but with even more flavor and using much less grease. This makes it a healthier option than traditional frying, and makes for less mess during the cooking process. Its 3-quart capacity is on the more efficient side when compared to many air fryers, making it a great option for singles or small families. It can cook up to 2.5 pounds of food at a time and is recommended for 2-4 people.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
