Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Levoit VortexIQ 40 Stick Vacuum review: simple but effective By Keyan Riddick Close $199.00 Great at picking up hair and dust dirt Convenient wall mount Auto power mode Few bells and whistles Small dust bin In the realm of smart home tech, robot vacuums are one product that helps you immensely. They aren’t always exciting by any means, but you will appreciate them. Generally, they fall into two categories, expensive with extensive features or budget and basic. The budget ones will often just give you a surface-level clean, but if you wanted that deep or precise clean, you’ll need to do it the old-fashioned way, with a manual vacuum. That’s where the Levoit VortexIQ stick vacuum comes in.
Out of the box Building materials Accessories Cleaning performance Battery life Smarts of a sort Our take Levoit’s VortexIQ 40 cordless stick vacuum has easy-to-change accessories and an auto mode that adjusts suction power automatically. With five different power levels, this vacuum will quickly grab anything you have hidden on your floor. If you’re a pet owner like me, you’ll soon discover how much hair is hiding in your carpet.
I’ve had the VortexIQ for the past month and have tested it extensively. I’ve used it in my apartment on both carpet and hardwood and in my car! This product has been a dream for what it is. But, before I dive more into the ins and outs of the VortexIQ, let’s discuss what you get in the box.
Out of the box Image used with permission by copyright holder When you first open up the box, you’re presented with a disassembled VortexIQ 40. Along with the vacuum (in about three easy-to-connect pieces), you’ll get three types of hoses, a wall-mount base, and the battery and AC charger. There’s the long, rolling floor hose, a telescopic crevice tube, and a dusting brush.
I chose to put up the base so that the vacuum and accessories can hang, charge, and reduce storage space. That easy process took about five minutes, and all I needed was a drill and screwdriver. Also, it’s nice that once you hang up the base, the vacuum should always be charged whenever you pick it up. That will help make sure you’re always getting its estimated 40 minutes of battery life.
Building materials Image used with permission by copyright holder The VortexIQ Is fully plastic, as with any other vacuum, and weighs 7 pounds when assembled with the swivel brush head. That’s not bad when you’re rolling the vacuum across the floor. However, when using the smaller brushes, the vacuum weighs considerably less and shouldn’t cause any sort of fatigue.
It comes with a 0.6-liter dust bin, which I found to be a bit small and cumbersome to deal with. Using the VortexIQ in my 1,000-square-foot two-bedroom apartment would require me to empty the bin twice. This was mainly due to pet hair, but I digress. You’ll also always want to empty the bin before and after use. Unfortunately, there’s also no automatic emptying attachment such as those with robot vacuums. The bin also has two ways to open up for clearing. You can do a quick release that opens the bottoms and has dirt fall out. This hardly worked for my use case, likely due to the amount of hair I hair instead of small objects like food or toys. You can also easily unscrew the whole bin and empty it. That was preferred for me and didn’t take much more time. Plus, I was able to clean it more efficiently and thoroughly.
It was easy to guide over carpet and hardwood, though I did have a few issues with thicker rugs.
The swivel head also has LEDs that help guide you in dimly lit areas. They also just genuinely help you see dirt on your floor more easily. Speaking of the swivel head, it was easy to guide over carpet and hardwood flooring. I did have some issues with some of my thicker rugs, though. Whether I was on auto, low, or high power, the vacuum would get stuck on the fiber and pull the rug. A quick power-off of the VortexIQ would drop the rug, and I would vacuum elsewhere. Thinner rugs were of no issue.
Accessories Image used with permission by copyright holder As stated above, the Vortex IQ comes with three hose attachments: a swivel, a telescopic, and a dusting brush. All brushes come with a smaller 3-inch squared opening, which was big enough to pick up most dirt and drops I couldn’t pick up by hand. The swivel head was the main brush I used, with the other two brush heads used for more specific tasks.
The telescopic hose has two lengths that are easily adjusted by a button. This helped when reaching for floor corners or making it smaller for shelves and other easier-to-reach areas. The dusting brush head also had an adjustable length button which either made the bristle more prominent or the hose more prominent. I used this head to help with furniture and my car, which did a pretty good job. Dog hair in the car was a bit more difficult to clean up.
Cleaning performance Image used with permission by copyright holder As far as actual cleaning performance, this vacuum did a great job. It has an auto mode that adjusts the suction power level between five stages. Auto mode is what I used most of the time when cleaning, and it was sufficient enough for most jobs. When I knew I needed a power clean and was spot cleaning, I manually upped the suction level to its highest point. I also had the power level at its highest when using the smaller brushes. You will quickly hear the difference in sound when cleaning through different power levels, and I would not suggest using the vacuum while others are sleeping when not at a lower level.
The automatic high-power suction was sporadic at best.
The quirk I ran into with auto mode was that it would ramp up for only half a second or so and seemingly at random. Now, this may be me moving the suction over an item before I could even notice it, but again pretty much at random. Sustained high-power suction was not a thing. So if you need continuous, high-powered suction, you are better off manually changing it.
Battery life Image used with permission by copyright holder Battery life was pretty much as expected. You could hit 30 to 40 minutes of runtime in auto mode. If you ever fully deplete the battery, it will take about four hours for it to charge on the wall mount completely. With the swivel hose attached, the vacuum can be slightly heavy, so using it for the complete estimated 40 minutes may be considered a workout.
Smarts of a sort Image used with permission by copyright holder The VortexIQ isn’t a smart vacuum, but it does automatically adjust suction as needed. Don’t expect an app or anything, though; instead, the VortexIQ 40 forgoes higher-end technology for a lower price point.
Our take Image used with permission by copyright holder Levoit’s VortexIQ 40 stick vortex is a pretty decent basic vacuum to have around the house, especially if you have kids or pets. Out of the box, you get a setup that will get the job done without needing to buy anything extra. Also appreciated is the wall mount to keep your vacuum charged and out of the way as well as the attachments for any other upholstery you need to clean.
Last but not least, one of the best things about this vacuum is that it is only $200. That is quite a reasonable price for this whole set, although it’s higher than a basic vacuum. It will run you much less than a comparable robot vacuum and all you have to do is walk around with it. The VortexIQ is the vacuum for you if you need a more basic but efficient cleaner.
Is there a better alternative? There are plenty of stick-style vacuums for you to compare to Levoit’s VortexIQ 40; with that, there are better alternatives. Of course, you could get all the bells and whistles with various vacuums that cost hundreds more.
For example, look at the Dyson Outsize Absolute.
 It’s packed to the brim with powerful features, but carries with it a $900 price tag. Though the VortexIQ 40 might not be on the same level, it’s a fraction of the price for a decent amount of cleaning power.
For something more in line with the price of the VortexIQ 40 with a few more features, the Roborock H6 Adapt will give you over double the battery life with half the weight.
How long will it last? The VortexIQ 40 is made of more rigid plastic materials, so it should cover you for a few years if taken care of. You can also wash the filters to keep the motors clean over the lifespan of the vacuums. Also, without much smart technology involved in this vacuum, software-related issues are a non-concern.
Should you buy it? If you need a basic vacuum in one low-cost package, the VortexIQ 40 is a solid choice — especially if you need a spot cleaner to complement your robot vacuum. But if you want one device to rule them all and have more smart features, there are better options.
Editors' Recommendations Dyson V10 vs. Dyson V11: A head-to-head breakdown of Dyson’s stick vacuums Appliances Product Reviews Vacuum Reviews Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
