Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra review: Apex of laziness By Nick Mokey Close $1,400.00 Self-emptying, self-cleaning Simple setup Quiet Great mopping performance Decent obstacle avoidance Lackluster pet hair pickup on carpet Large dock Roborock’s S7 MaxV Ultra has all the deliver-me-from-inconvenience appeal of a ‘90s infomercial: It’s a robovac! It’s a robomop! It’s a robovac and mop in one! And when it’s done, it cleans and empties itself. Cue black-and-white footage of a frazzled guy fussing with a mop and bucket — cut to color footage of a sleek robot prowling the floor, leaving gleaming hardwoods in its wake.
A class of its own Ready, set, clean So how does it clean? A bot you can live with Our take There’s a reason I named the Robovac S7 MaxV Ultra my most coveted product of CES 2022.
 And that reason is my 95-pound Great Pyrenees mix, Marty, whose abysmal shedding necessitates near-daily vacuuming. So when I had a chance to test the real deal in my fur snow globe of a home, I took Roborock up on the opportunity. While reality might not be quite as dramatic as my Ron Popeil fever dream, there’s no question that the S7 MaxV Ultra is a next-level robovac with skills that almost nothing else can match right now.
New Roborock S7 Max Ultra boasts maintenance-free dock, impressive mopping skills Roborock S7 Max vs. Ecovacs Deebot X1 Roborock S4 vacuum bot has the ability to free itself when it gets stuck A class of its own Nick Mokey/Digital Trends Robovac-robomop combos have come a long way in a short time.
Ecovacs Deebo Ozmo T8 AIVI was one of the first in 2020, but it and others from its generation came with one big sticking point: they don’t actually mop and vacuum at the same time. You need to run it as a vacuum, then manually stick on a mop pad and run it again as a mop. Roborock solved this issue with the S6 MaxV , which vacuums and mops in one run, but that bot came with its own asterisk: you needed to manually wash the mop pad after a mopping run, which is not exactly automatic.
The S7 MaxV Ultra banishes all these hassles with a jack-of-all-trades base station. After mopping and vacuuming your home in one sweep, the S7 MaxV Ultra returns home to charge, empty collected debris into a bag, drain dirty water into a reservoir, refill with fresh fluid, and even wash its own mop head. If your standard robovac charging station is a Chevron, this one is a Formula 1 pit lane.
Only a few competitors operate at this level of automation, including the $949 Narwal T10 , $1,549 Ecovacs Deeboy X1 Omni , and new $1,099 iRobot Roomba Combo j7+.
Ready, set, clean In light of everything it does, I expected setting up the S7 MaxV Ultra to require the patience of assembling an Ikea air purifier , but in truth, it’s a 20-minute weeknight task. After finding a home for the absolutely goliath base station (which could be a challenge for apartment dwellers), you plug it in, remove a few packing pieces, top it off with water, and drop the vacuum down to charge. A QR code on the robot is supposed to effortlessly connect to the Roborock app, but it didn’t like my home network. Instead, I had to manually connect to the temporary Wi-Fi network the bot created.
If you’re used to watching robot vacuums aimlessly bounce into chair legs and baseboards, seeing the S7 at work will be a revelation. With the magic of LiDAR (think radar but with light ), the S7 actually sees your home in 3D and plots a path around obstacles. On the S7’s first run, I watched it proceed cautiously through a maze of chair legs once, then weave back between them as gracefully as a human would drive.
All that sensor data adds up to a startlingly accurate rendition of your home’s floor plan, which you can pan around in the Roborock app with all the ease of Google Maps.
 We’re not just talking walls. It automatically names rooms, differentiates carpet from tile from hardwood, and even identifies furniture like sofas and TV stands. While it’s not perfect (it thought my clawfoot tub was a bed), it’s incredibly impressive, and you can easily correct the little bits it gets wrong in the app.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Room detection also means you can clean just a few areas of your home rather than firing it up for the whole house. This feature is a bit clunky in the app, but it’s effortless after connecting to a voice assistant. Asking Alexa to clean the kitchen on the way out the door and return to sparkling floors really does feel like the future.
Not all the bells and whistles made us swoon, though. The onboard camera is one of those nice-in-theory options you’ll forget about after spying on the dog once, and the remote control option is kind of baffling. If I wanted to manually position a vacuum over a mess, I’d use a stick vac, not a controller.
So how does it clean? On our hardwoods and tile, the vibrating mop did an admirable job banishing dust, dirt, and paw prints in a single pass. You can use plain water or spike it with Roborock’s $16 cleaning solution, but we didn’t notice any difference in cleaning ability after the upgrade. We got clean, streak-free floors that dried in just a couple minutes either way. Thanks to a remarkably efficient mopping process, the dock’s 3-liter water capacity lasted us weeks of frequent mopping. In fact, we found ourselves maintaining the reservoirs for another reason first: stink.
Dumping rancid mop water down a utility sink is a hold-your-breath chore.
Yes, while the S7 MaxV does away with the ickiness of cleaning mops, all that waste water has to go somewhere. It turns out that wringing concentrated floor goo into a room-temp reservoir eventually stews up a nice odor. This lovely aroma wafts from the dock after a couple weeks, and dumping rancid mop water down a utility sink is a hold-your-breath chore you’ll want to draw straws on.
As a vacuum, the S7 MaxV effortlessly handled our hardwoods but seemed to be leaving a lot of dog fur embedded in our carpets. As a test, I ran my four-year-old Roomba on a 12-by-10 area rug immediately after the Roborock finished, and it pulled up a downright embarrassing amount of dog fur. Something wasn’t right.
Upon further investigation, I found that Marty’s coat was completely jamming the S7’s internal dust bin: the clots of fur were so thick, even the dock’s powerful suction couldn’t dislodge them. No wonder it wasn’t cleaning well.
After manually cleaning the bin, it performed better, but it still seemed to be missing some hair. I retested the Roomba on a carpet the Roborock had “cleaned” and once again discovered that it was leaving behind a disgusting amount. This is what it missed: Nick Mokey/Digital Trends If that sounds puzzling given its impressive-sounding 5,100pa of suction, consider the business end of this bot. The S7 MaxV has just a single rotating beater brush, while the Roomba has two, with a more aggressive pattern. The S7 doesn’t perform an unacceptable job on carpet, but it’s clear that other machines offer a much deeper clean.
A bot you can live with What it lacks in sheer cleaning power, the S7 MaxV Ultra makes up for with its tank-like mobility. We have one rug that is too tall for Roomba to climb up on and another that’s simply too shaggy. The Roborock bulldozes over both without complaint, intelligently lifting its mop right on cue.
Roborock’s ReactiveAI 2.0 obstacle avoidance also helps keep it out of trouble. You can watch it approach an obstacle like a sock or shoe, examine it, and then work carefully around it. But the technology doesn’t work as well for smaller obstacles, like charging cords and shoelaces, which our review unit ingested a few times. And though its hazard detection correctly identified a floor heating grate as a hazard after getting snagged on it multiple times, the vac won’t start to automatically avoid it. You still need to manually box out a “no-go zone” in the app.
As someone who grinds his teeth at the whir of a Roomba, I was delighted by how incredibly quiet the S7 MaxV Ultra is. While I still scheduled it to run it when I’m out of the house, it produces more of a tolerable hum than a dental drill whine, and you could easily watch TV in the same room as it does its thing.
Our take We’ve already conceded that the S7 MaxV is not the strongest robovac on the block, so what could possibly make it worth $1,400? Well, suction isn’t everything.
Is there a better alternative? When we first published this review, nothing matched the Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra, but a new competitor has since emerged: The new Roomba Combo j7+. We haven’t yet had a chance to pit it against Marty’s fur, but with dual beater brushes, a smaller base station, and iRobot’s sterling reputation, it’s worth a close look. Right now, we’re also seeing the new Roomba retail for around $899, while the Roborock fetches $1,060.
Older competitors both come with caveats that prevent them from matching the S7 MaxV Ultra. We haven’t tested the less expensive Narwal T10, but the lack of a beater brush suggests it will perform poorly on carpet (and other reviewers agree). The more expensive Ecovacs Deebot X1 Omni nearly matches the S7 MaxV Ultra feature-for-feature, but without the ability to raise and lower its mop on the fly, it needs to do two separate sweeps of your home.
How long will it last? Roborock isn’t quite as established as iRobot in this game, but it’s not a fly-by-night Amazon competitor, either. The lifespan of any mechanical device like this will depend a lot on how often you use it and how roughly you treat it. After six months of extremely frequent use, all signs point to a long life. From the silicone-gasket reservoirs with sturdy handles to the flip-top door for the dust collection, everything feels well-built and durable. We also like that the Roborock app recommends simple DIY maintenance, like cleaning sensors.
When something inevitably breaks, we’re encouraged by the availability of replacement parts and accessories like mop cloths and filters in the Roborock store at reasonable prices (a new beater brush, for example, will set you back only $23).
Should you buy it? Yes. It may seem odd to recommend a robovac that can be out-cleaned by a cheaper competitor, but these devices are all about convenience, not sterilizing your home to a surgical clean. With its all-terrain tenacity, obstacle avoidance, and self-emptying features, the Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra is the most hassle-free robovac you can buy. But if you’re a pet owner or your house has a lot of carpet, you may be happier with a dedicated robot vacuum.
Editors' Recommendations Roborock S8 Pro Ultra vs. Roborock S7 Max Ultra: Which is the better robot vacuum? Roborock S8 Pro Ultra vs. Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni: which is the better robot vacuum? Roborock S7 robot vacuum erases tough, dry stains through sonic mopping Appliances Product Reviews Robot Vacuums Vacuum Reviews Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
