Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Amazon Fire TV Soundbar review: surprisingly immersive By Simon Cohen Close $120.00 Decent bass for a single speaker HDMI connection Effective virtual surround sound Weak midrange performance Some missing instructions I’ll be honest: When Amazon announced its new Fire TV Soundbar during its fall 2023 hardware event, I had to suppress a yawn. After all, on paper, this speaker doesn’t exactly wow. It’s a simple two-driver, two-channel soundbar that connects to any TV via HDMI or optical, and it comes with its own remote, all for $120. So my expectations were pretty low.
Is this a Fire TV streaming device? Amazon Fire TV soundbar: what’s in the box? Amazon Fire TV soundbar: design Amazon Fire TV soundbar: setup and connections Amazon Fire TV soundbar: sound quality And yet, after spending a week with the Fire TV Soundbar, watching movies and TV shows, and even streaming some music, I’m happy to say it’s not a bad little speaker. It’s no replacement for more expensive soundbars. But for those on a budget, here’s why I think it’s a good buy.
The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Amazon debuts its first Fire TV soundbar and faster Fire TV sticks Is this a Fire TV streaming device? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Despite its name, the Fire TV Soundbar isn’t an actual Fire TV device.
 Connecting it to your TV won’t give you a Fire TV interface or give you access to any streaming media services. In other words, it’s a soundbar. Period.
While it’s true that if you own a Fire TV device — like the Fire TV Omni — you’ll be able to control the Fire TV Soundbar’s volume and power from your TV’s remote control, but this isn’t limited to Fire TVs. Any TV connected to the soundbar via HDMI will have a similar ability. What makes it unusual is that at this price ($100 to $120) you generally won’t get an HDMI port on a soundbar at all.
So why is it called a Fire TV Soundbar? According to Amazon, it’s because the company’s Fire TV team designed and produced it. OK, then.
Amazon Fire TV soundbar: what’s in the box? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Fire TV Soundbar comes with everything you need to get it connected and playing. You get a power cable, an HDMI cable , a remote control with batteries, a simple wall-mount kit, a quick start guide, and a wall-mounting template.
The only thing you may need to buy is an optical cable, but that’s only if your TV doesn’t have an HDMI ARC/eARC port, or if you want to connect an additional audio source (more on that in a moment).
Amazon Fire TV soundbar: design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Like a lot of Amazon’s devices, the Fire TV soundbar is free of any visible logos. It’s a minimalist black rectangle with a matching fabric grille that wraps around the front four corners. You might be tempted to say it looks boring, but I’m a big believer that soundbars shouldn’t draw attention to themselves. And in that sense, the Fire TV Soundbar is perfect.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Size-wise, it’s going to fit almost anywhere. At 24 inches wide and 2.5 inches tall, it won’t look out of place in front of a 32-inch TV, and it’s narrow enough that you might even be able to place it between the legs of a larger TV.
There are five buttons on the top surface for basic functions like volume, source, power, and Bluetooth, but don’t lose the remote — it has additional functions that the soundbar’s buttons can’t replicate.
Amazon Fire TV soundbar: setup and connections Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As with most basic soundbars, the Fire TV Soundbar is quite literally plug-and-play. Once you connect it to power and to your TV’s HDMI ARC/eARC port, and then turn on your TV, the soundbar should be automatically recognized and used as your TV’s sound output. If it isn’t, dive into your TV’s settings and make sure the sound is set to optical/HDMI (or HDMI if you don’t have an optical port).
Here’s a quick tip: If your TV has both HDMI ARC and optical (and you don’t mind using two remotes), use the optical connection. There’s no difference in sound quality, and you’ll be able to keep your HDMI ARC port available for other devices. Optical connections can handle any audio up to Dolby Digital 5.1, which the Fire TV Soundbar supports. Only Dolby Atmos soundbars require an HDMI connection to deliver sound at the highest possible quality.
For TV sound, you’re all done. Congrats. Your next option, should you choose to use it, is to connect an additional device like a CD player to the optical port if you kept it available and/or a USB drive to the USB port.
Because each of these is considered a discrete input, you can keep all three connected and jump between them using the input select button on the speaker or the remote. If you then decide to pair your phone, tablet, or other device via Bluetooth, the input selection will include that Bluetooth connection, so there’s no need to use the Bluetooth button once pairing is complete.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends A nice touch is the use of a very familiar-sounding voice to announce each of these inputs as you cycle through them, instead of needing to decipher the three color-coded LEDs that appear behind the fabric grille.
Don’t want your speaker talking to you? A long press on the remote’s mute button will banish those announcements (repeat the long press to bring them back). Speaking of the remote, it’s not going to win any design awards. But it’s compact, with easy-to-press buttons that are covered in a layer of rubber. That should make it relatively spill-resistant when the inevitable TV dinner catastrophe occurs.
As easy as the Fire TV Soundbar is to set up and use, the lack of a full set of instructions, either in the box or online, is annoying. I have yet to find directions on how to use the USB port for playback of digital music files, but here’s what I have found — in case you need them: Change the audio settings on the Amazon Fire TV Soundbar What do the LEDs mean on the Amazon Fire TV Soundbar? Pair Bluetooth devices to the Amazon Fire TV Soundbar One small caveat for Fire TV Omni owners: shortly after this review was published, a reader emailed us to say that pressing the mute button on either the Soundbar’s or the Omni’s remote was the equivalent of pressing the mute button twice — the Soundbar apparently receives the command via infrared from the remote itself, then again from the TV relayed through HDMI. The reader’s suggested workaround is use Amazon Alexa to mute the sound.
Amazon Fire TV soundbar: sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends We buy soundbars because we don’t believe our TV’s built-in speaker system sounds very good, and we want something better. The two ways that TV speakers generally fail us is a lack of bass (good bass is one of the keys to a more theatrical sound experience) and a lack of dialogue intelligibility (“what did she just say?”).
The Fire TV Soundbar can solve both problems. Its low-end bass is surprisingly deep and resonant for a single speaker with no subwoofer, and when you shift the EQ mode to its dialogue setting, it does a decent job of emphasizing the higher frequencies associated with speech. With 40 watts of power, it gets more than loud enough for small rooms and can even handle some larger spaces too.
The real surprise, however, is the soundbar’s DTS Virtual:X surround sound mode. Engaging it instantly widens the soundstage, and you quickly forget that the little rectangular box under your TV is producing the sound — the audio feels like it’s coming from speakers on either side of your room. It works with any content – -and can be a fun way to listen to music too — but the effect is most pronounced when your source material is multichannel (e.g., Dolby Digital 5.1).
I enjoyed watching a number of big Hollywood films like Dune , Edge of Tomorrow , and Spider-Man: No Way Home using the Fire TV Soundbar. Even in standard Movie mode, I thought dialogue was clear, though I admit it was better on some movies than others.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends No, it’s not as good as a true Dolby Atmos soundbar playing Dolby Atmos content. And, yes, it could do with an external subwoofer for more bass impact. But it’s still a much more immersive experience than you’ll get from your TV alone.
If you’re picky about sound or you have golden ears, it’s pretty obvious that the Fire TV Soundbar has trouble with midrange frequencies. There’s a distinct lack of detail there. Using the Music EQ setting helps a little, as does dialing down the bass (there are three levels of bass boost), but it’s still noticeable.
Once you get sucked into the on-screen action of a big blockbuster movie, your brain will likely adapt pretty quickly — pumping the bass and using the surround mode is definitely the way to go — but streaming music via Bluetooth can be a little lackluster.
Again, it depends on your frame of reference. If you’re coming from a dedicated set of hi-fi stereo speakers, the Fire TV Soundbar can’t compare. But given that it’s essentially a giant Bluetooth speaker, it compares really well to smaller portable Bluetooth speakers in the same price range.
As a budget soundbar, the Amazon Fire TV Soundbar gets the job done. It’s easy to set up, easy to use, and it delivers better sound than many TVs — in some cases, considerably better sound.
Its biggest problem is that — unless you consider its HDMI port to be a benefit — it doesn’t really do any of this any better than the competition. For the same price or less, you can buy a Vizio, LG, or Samsung soundbar that will sound just as good, and possibly better.
Editors' Recommendations Can curved speakers make TV dialogue easier to hear? The best soundbars of 2023: a sound upgrade for your TV Best streaming devices for 2023: Apple TV, Roku, and more Amazon is giving you 6 months of MGM+ when you buy a new Fire TV TCL’s latest Q and S Class televisions price Fire TV to sell Amazon Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Speakers Audio / Video Amazon TV deals are a great starting point for your home theater search. Amazon is willing to drop its prices a lot lower than similar retailers like Best Buy and Walmart. Below we've gathered the best 4K TV deals available on the site, from HD to 4K, LED to OLED, and everything in between. These Amazon TV deals include several different manufactures, not just Amazon's Fire brand. We have great TV deals on cheaper brands like Hisense and Toshiba, as well as high-brow brands like LG and Samsung.
Insignia 32-inch F20 Series HD Fire TV -- $90, was $150 If you don't mind skipping 4K Ultra HD resolution and a massive screen in favor of a lower price, then you'll want to purchase the 32-inch Insignia F20 Series HD Fire TV. You'll be able to watch your favorite shows on HD resolution, and because the TV supports HDMI ARC, it can send audio directly from its HDMI port to a compatible soundbar or AV receiver to remove the necessity of an extra cable. The HD TV runs on Amazon's Fire TV, which not only supports all of the popular streaming services, but also grants access to the best Alexa skills. The budget TV even comes with an Alexa Voice Remote, so you'll be able to search for content, switch input sources, control playback, and many more using voice commands. It also supports Apple's AirPlay, which will let you easily share videos and photos from an Apple device to the TV's 32-inch screen.
Audio / Video It's not a good day for Bose -- the company has just announced a recall of over 1 million bass modules that it sold from January 1994 through April 2007 in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. These modules, or subwoofers, carry a risk of electrical component failure that poses a fire hazard, according to the official recall notice from the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC).
The bass modules were sold as part of Bose's Acoustimass, Lifestyle, and Companion home theater systems, which were home-theater-in-a-box sets that included a variety of passive, wired speakers along with the powered bass module. If your Bose system looks similar to the one pictured above, there's a good chance it's included in the recall.
Audio / Video One of the benefits of being Digital Trends is that we get to test a lot of things that simply aren’t easily available or replaceable should they not work out for the average person. That’s why we put so much work into testing TVs, for one example. Or full soundbar setups, for another.
Other times it’s because we’re able to take products for a test drive before they go on sale. Like video games, or computers and phones. That’s good because it helps you make a relatively expensive and important purchase decision.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
