Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best bone conduction headphones for 2023 By Michael Bizzaco and Tyler Lacoma Close Bone conduction headphones have taken the world by storm, and we’re all about this relatively new and exciting audiio technology. If you’ve never seen one of these headsets in the wild, the idea is relatively simple : A series of sound waves are generated by a set of conductors that rest along your jawbone. These waves create vibrations throughout the skull and jaw that our inner ears register as sound.
With traditional headphones and earbuds , sound waves need to pass by our eardrums first, before arriving at the inner ear. This is why bone conduction headphones are ideal for commuters, gym-goers , and loud workplaces. The sounds of your immediate listening environment will still be audible (because your ears are technically headphone-free), but you’ll still be able to enjoy music and podcasts via the vibrations in your cranium. Similarly, open-ear earbuds and headphones are also a good choice for letting in outside sound, but they're not to be confused with bone conduction.
While most of the best bone conduction headphones are still made by Shokz (a company that gets three shoutouts in our roundup), there are several other brands that do an excellent job with this unique technology.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More Shokz Shockz OpenRun Pro Best overall High-quality titanium design Good sound quality Great fit Battery life isn't as good as many headphones Back when Shockz was Aeropex and their headphones were called Aftershockz, they were the best bone conduction option in town. Fortunately, nothing has changed since their rebrand. In fact, their bone conduction technology is better than ever, and these premium OpenRun Pro headphones are your best bet for bone conduction technology.
The design has been updated for a more comfortable fit — something that’s always important with bone conduction headphones, which need a firm grip that doesn’t become uncomfortable over time — and improved sound quality. The titanium frame is both slim and durable, and they're able to deal with the daily grind of activities like jogging and biking. Plus, they can take a pounding at the bottom of your workout bag. The battery isn’t the best in the world at 10 hours, but the fast-charge mechanism is more than welcome if you forget to recharge before a run and want to be ready.
More Haylou Haylou Purfree BC01 Best on a budget Affordable Voice assistant support Call noise reduction Battery life isn't great Bone conduction technology can be expensive, which is why many of these extra-slim headphones aren’t so slim when it comes to pricing. If you’re looking for a model under $100 or so, we were impressed by this version from Haylou. Like the OpenRun models, they are designed to be waterproof for rain and sweat (like all of our picks for best waterproof earbuds ) while still offering strong audio quality through bone conduction.
In addition to traditional on-board controls, the headphones also offer a multifunction button to take calls (enhanced with noise-canceling features for calls) or turn on Siri or Google Assistant, making this an excellent option for those who use voice assistants on the go. Battery life, however, falls short at eight hours compared to the 10 hours offered by the OpenRun Pro, and while quick charge is here, it’s not quite as good. The design uses titanium for a more flexible approach, but you may also want to be more careful to avoid damaging these headphones.
Mojawa Mojawa Mojo 2 The best for exercising Great bass Secure fit IP67 rated Includes fast-charging So-so battery life Whether you’re a cycling enthusiast, a bodybuilder, or a master of fencing, sports devotees the world over can make great use of the excellent Mojo 2 bone conduction headset from Mojawa. Earning a solid IP67 rating, the Mojo 2 (aka the Run Air) headset is perfect for even the sweatiest of workouts. And because they fit snug and securely, you won’t have to worry about constantly adjusting them while you’re trying to get your reps in.
We’re glad that Mojawa decided to pay a little more attention to bass too, a part of the audio experience that typically takes a big hit with bone conduction headsets. This is thanks to the integrated Maglev bass actuator, which enhances the low end frequencies that travel throughout the bones in your head and neck. These aren’t going to give you the type of thump we’d expect from premium headphones or earbuds, but it’s definitely better than most bone conduction products.
As far as battery goes, the Mojo 2 headset delivers up to eight hours of power on a full charge, but this can drop down faster if you’re rocking out at higher volumes. To combat this though, Mojawa designed the headset with quick charging in mind. Just 10 minutes of charge time will get you an extra 90 minutes of music and podcasts. Additionally, if you want to save $20, the Mojawa Mojo 1 model are very similar.
More Shokz Shokz OpenSwim Best for swimming Swimming design with earplugs and nose clip MP3 player for built-in songs Durable and waterproof No fast charge for limited battery life Bone conduction headphones have another important forte — they are excellent for swimmers. Their unique design means it’s a bit easier to adapt them to be waterproof, and they don’t have the same danger of falling out as earbuds do. But you still get to listen to the tunes you want while in the water, no matter what you’re doing.
Shokz has fit these headphones with several important extras for swimming, too. That includes an included nose clip and earplug (which help improve audio quality, too) and, notably, a built-in MP3 player. That means you can pre-download your playlists on the headphones and play them without worrying about a Bluetooth connection, which can often get lost when doing laps in a swimming pool. Battery life is still a bit limited at eight hours, so make sure you charge up before hitting the pool. If this pair doesn't quite match your needs, we have a full roundup of the best headphones for swimming , too.
Shokz Shokz OpenComm Best for business Great for business with its noise-canceling microphone Better battery life for longer shifts Great for truckers and factory workers Not as advanced as newer Shokz models This OpenComm model from Shokz is made for more than just music. With its noise-canceling boom microphone, it allows for easier communication in noisy environments while also keeping your ears clear for safety and quick conversations with nearby teammates.
That makes these headphones ideal for truckers and others in the transportation industry as well as those working on a factory floor or in other industrial capacities. Office workers may also enjoy them as an alternative to chatting with a traditional headset on. The battery also offers 16 hours of talk time and eight hours of audio playback on a single charge.
More H2O H20 Audio Multi-Sport Best for internal storage H20 Audio may not be a brand of headphones we’re running to the stores in droves for, but if you’re looking for a solid bone conduction headset with a built-in memory bank for a favorite playlist or two, one should look no further than the H20 Audio Multi-Sport Bone Conduction Headphones.
What wins us over with this model is that H20 Audio thought to include up to 8GB of internal storage with this headset. Remember the days of MP3 players? So does H20 Audio. And if you don’t feel like uploading tracks to the Multi-Sport, that’s okay too, because the headset will still pair to your smartphone, tablet, or laptop via Bluetooth.
Admittedly, this won’t be too useful if you’re going to be using these IPX8-rated headphones for swimming , as Bluetooth doesn’t work well underwater. But if you’re going to be on land, and near your iPhone, you should have no problem enjoying wireless music.
With six hours of battery life to spare (with volume at 50 percent or less), H20 Audio won’t be taking home any trophies for long-lasting performance, but if you’re using the headset at the gym or in the pool, six listening hours should be enough for most folks.
More Editors' Recommendations Best headphones for running for 2023: JLab, JBL, Shokz, and more The best kids headphones of 2023: for fun, safety, and more The best noise-canceling headphones of 2023: Bose, Sony, and more The best headphones for swimming in 2023 The best open-ear earbuds and headphones for 2023 Buying Guides Best Products Buying Guides Headphones Audio / Video Whether you're working from home or living the digital nomad life taking calls on the go, it's important to have high-quality headphones so your important discussions can happen without any disturbance. While you can use any headphones to make calls, we recommend opting for options with excellent active noise canceling (ANC), clear sound quality, and an easy-to-switch transparency mode to get the best results.
We've saved you the hard work and rounded up the best headphones with microphones for calls, and to be clear, we're talking about over-ear headphones. Prefer earbuds? We've got you covered, too, with our list of the best earbuds for phone calls. Let's get to it.
Deals Sometimes you'll see a piece of tech that is so out there, you're not quite sure it's real. Thankfully, bone conduction earphones aren't a sci-fi fantasy -- and some of the bigger audio brands have released products in this niche. Of course, they are often quite expensive, which tends to put people off from trying them. That's why this latest offer is one of the best headphone deals available, as Amazon has a pair of AfterShokz conduction headphones for just $80, down from the usual price of $130.
If you're not familiar with bone-conducting headphones like the AfterShokz Treks Titanium, they're actually pretty interesting. Rather than having a traditional speaker that creates soundwaves for your ears, these instead create the equivalent vibrations right up against a bone, usually a cheekbone, which in turn vibrate your eardrums internally, giving you the sound. It's almost sci-fi sounding, but these types of earphones have a lot of benefits. For example, if don't like in-ear headphones, and over-the-head earphones tend to bounce around a lot, these are a great alternative since they're designed to hug your cheekbones anyway, so they're much more firm and stable as you do activities.
Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
