Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best waterproof wireless earbuds for 2023 By Derek Malcolm Close Whenever people ask us for advice on which earbuds or headphones they should buy, perhaps the most important question we ask in return is "what are you going to use them for?" If the answer to that question is focused on exercising, sweating a lot, and perhaps doing both in situations where water might be a factor, then you've come to the right place with this list of the best waterproof wireless earbuds you can buy.
But first, let's set some ground rules: For this list, our focus is on wireless earbuds that achieve at least an IPX7 waterproof rating , which means that they're technically fully submersible in water for short periods of time, allowing you to hose them down after you sweat all over them (or accidentally drop them in the toilet) without worry. We've also taken into account other great features such as sound quality, active noise cancelation (ANC), and different designs like open-ear and earhooks. And, of course, we've looked at price.
With that said, it's worth noting that just because our picks are waterproof, it doesn't necessarily mean that they're suitable for swimming. If that's your focus, head on over to our list of the best headphones for swimming instead. If not, please read on.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends JBL Reflect Flow Pro Best overall waterproof earbuds Solid, secure fit Excellent noise-canceling Choice of hands-free voice A.I.s Completely waterproof Wireless charging Limited control options No quick-charge option We've checked out a load of wireless earbuds, but when it comes to the waterproof pair that has impressed us most, we keep coming back to the JBL Reflect Flow Pro.
With three different sizes of silicone eartips that JBL calls "powerfins," you get a few options to help find the snug fit best for your workouts. And while our review of the Reflect Flow Pro disagreed with JBL's claim that they'd stay put even while surfing, we also praised them for having a super secure and comfortable fit, which is complimented by their IP68 dust and waterproof rating — yeah, they're rugged as heck.
The near faultless JBL Reflect Flow Pros don't stop there either. If sound quality is also up on your list of features, you're in luck as these are some of the best-sounding buds we've reviewed. Punchy bass gives you the tempo and drive to push on while the mids and highs are clear and cut through, no matter the music. The JBL Headphones app also has a great EQ in case you like things more specific.
For $180 you'd expect a set of buds to include features like ANC and transparency mode, right? Again, no disappointment there as the Flow Pro's excel at keeping outside noise at bay and sound crystal clear inside (as well as calls), unless you want to hear what's happening around you (like oncoming buses or yelling pedestrians), in which case there are two different transparency modes to choose from. The app also lets you configure these and other features, letting you map them to the controls on the earbuds for quick access.
Battery life on the Reflect Flow Pro is also great, with up to 10 hours per charge with ANC on and an additional 20 hours in the case (double that without ANC). The only down side to the Flow Pro's case is that it is not dust or water proof like the buds, but that's forgivable.
1More 1More Fit S50 Best open-ear waterproof earbuds Super comfortable Can easily hear what's around you IPX7 water and dust resistant Good sounding Not great when it's noisy If you're someone who doesn't like the feeling of having earbuds stuck inside your ear canals (some don't like the suction feeling) and doesn't want over-ear headphones for your workouts, open-ear earbuds could be the best way to go. Designed to sit comfortably just outside the ear canal, open ear earbuds are some of the most comfortable earbuds you can buy.
They're also perfect for people like runners or cyclists who want to be able to hear what's going on around them without the need for transparency mode in a sealed earbud. And while there can be some drawbacks with the open-ear design — the sound has a little further to travel to your eardrum, which some feel doesn't sound as good — the 1More Fit S50 do not suffer form this and sound quite full and defined. They even have a decent EQ feature in its companion app for getting the best sound for you.
With sturdy earhooks to keep them in place for even the most rigorous runs, the Fit S50 are obviously on this list because of their IPX7 waterproof properties, so no need to worry about rain, sweat, rinsing, or even a quick dunk in the pool (up to 1 meter) after your workout to cool off.
1More's flagship open-ear model, the $150 Fit S50 get up to 11 hours of playtime on a charge, for a total of 38 hours with the charging case.
Jabra Jabra Elite 8 Active Best for a comfortable fit Rugged as hell Snug and comfy Decent battery life Dolby Audio IP68 dust and waterproof rating ANC good, not great Launched in the summer of 2023 along with the company's flagship Elite 10 s, the $200 Jabra Elite 8 Active are no slouch either. In fact, Jabra calls them the world's toughest earbuds, with not only a IP68 dustproof and waterproof rating — the highest you can get in a personal audio product — but they've been put through the gauntlet by the U.S. military, achieving its 810H standard for ruggedized electronics.
The Elite 8 Active also feature Jabra’s adaptive hybrid ANC system, which isn't quite as good at the Elite 10, but is still excellent for the price and you can rest assured that your music and calls will be beautifully quiet.
As far as fit and comfort go, Jabra's "ShakeGrip" tech utilizes a liquid silicone rubber compound that creates a snug, slip-free, and super-comfy fit, ensuring they'll stay put, even for a ear-hook free design.
Additional features include Bluetooth Multipoint , for connecting to multiple devices at a time, Fast Pair, Swift Pair, and Dolby Audio with spatial sound for immersive 3D sound (no head tracking though).
There's up to eight hours of playtime per charge on the Elite 8 Active, with ANC on, with a total time of up to 32 hours with the charging case. A five-minute quick charge will deliver an hour of playtime, too.
More Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends Soundcore Sport X10 Best earhook design Comfy fit and stability Rugged durability Good sound quality Solid ANC and ambient performance Great app support Wind can break through No aptX support No wireless charging When you're running your fastest lap or longest distance, you want to make sure that the wireless earbuds providing the motivation to do it are going to stay put. One of the best earbud designs for this is a pair with an earhook that wraps snugly, but comfortably, around your ear. Anker's Soundcore sub-brand have been killing it in the earhook space with their Spirit X2 , Spirit Dot 2 , and especially the Sport X10, which not only boasts ANC (the others do not) but an excellent IPX7 waterproof rating. And while we wouldn't necessarily recommend the for swimmers , they can take stand submersion in up to 3 feet of water for up to half an hour.
The Sport X10's earhook design fits a wide range of ear shapes and sizes. They're easy to put on and the earbuds themselves are super comfortable, too, with their malleable rubberized material.
Soundcore has also been excelling in the sound quality department, too, as do the Sport X10s. In our review of the earbuds, we noted a great bass response for those who like the low end, and some less bass-y presets (among an impressive 21) and customization for those who don't. Our reviewer also reported "warm highs and passable mids" for a "likeable sound profile." The Soundcore Sport X10 are under $100, which make them an excellent value for what you get. On top of all we've mentioned, they have a feature-rich app, voice assistant support, and a just-OK six hours of battery life on a charge with ANC on (eight with ANC off).
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Jaybird Vista 2 Best rugged waterproof earbuds Fully water and dustproof Compact and secure fit Great sound quality Wireless charging Very poor call quality ANC struggles with wind noise Some earbud wearers, especially those with glasses, who aren't fans of the earhook design of buds such as the Soundcore Sport X10, might find the Jaybird Vista 2's stabilizer fins much more to their liking. Known as "eargels," they fit cleanly and snugly in the ear's concha, are incredibly secure, and won't interfere with the temple tips of glasses.
But we've buried the lede here — sure, the Vista 2s have an eargel design, but more importantly they are rugged as hell. Not only do they meet the Department of Defense's MIL-STD-810 standard for environmental durability, but they're IP68 rated for complete dust and water protection. Even the wireless charging case is corrosion resistant and has its own IP54 rating. Sweat in them, splash sea water or chlorine pool water on them, take them to the beach, and just rinse them off after.
Additionally, the outside of each bud is now covered in a "WindDefense" fabric that keeps the six microphones shielded. Sadly, though, the fabric doesn't aid much with another new feature: Active noise cancellation (ANC) and transparency modes, with our reviewer giving it a middling rating, but saying that it's "exactly what you need to reduce outside sounds to the point where they no longer intrude on your concentration." Thankfully, sound quality is excellent on the Vista 2s, with a balance sound signature, decent bass response, and enough EQ presets and customizable options to fine-tune the sound to your unique specifications.
Battery life has significantly improved on the Vista 2, going from six to eight hours on a charge and from 10 to 16 hours in the case. With ANC on, the playtime number drops to six. For $150, you're in for a set of rugged waterproof earbuds that will take whatever you put them through.
More Bang & Olufsen B&O BeoPlay EX Best sounding waterproof earbuds Excellent B&O sound Support for aptx Adaptive Bluetooth Multipoint Great ANC Expensive Battery life not great Bang & Olufsen don't mess around when it comes to high-end audio products. And while its sexy-looking BeoPlay EX earbuds might not look like the best choice for rigorous, sweat-inducing workouts (if you have the $399, who are we to judge?), you're getting an incredibly good sounding set of IP57-rated earbuds you can rinse off after you've spilled your champagne all over them.
The only earbuds on our list that are of the stem-design variety similar to the AirPods Pro , the BeoPlay EX have four sizes of comfortable silicone eartips for a good fit, and have larger drivers than its predecessor for more dynamic sound that, in true form for B&O is clear, full, and with the good seal and adaptive ANC, immersive.
Additionally, with support for AAC, SBC, and Qualcomm's aptX Adaptive Bluetooth codec (for those with Android phones), which means you'll be able to take advantage of hi-res music from supported streaming services such as Tidal and Apple Music.
 There's also support for Bluetooth Multipoint connectivity, which won't mean much for your workout but if you work with your earbuds in you'll be able to listen to music from one source while being able to take calls from another.
The battery situation with the BeoPlay EX is OK, with a middling six hours per charge with ANC on and right with it off. The case delivers up to 28b hours total and with wireless charging, juicing them up is easy.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Black Friday headphone and earbud deals now Beats Black Friday deals: Save on wireless headphones and earbuds Wow! Walmart just discounted these Sony earbuds from $98 to $29 Best cheap headphones and earbuds 2023: Jabra, 1More, and others Best earbuds for making phone calls for 2023 Best Products Headphones Audio / Video Shoppers are always on the lookout for headphone deals and true wireless earbuds deals involving Sony's devices because the brand is well-known for the quality of its products. If you're one of them, you've come to the right place because we've rounded up the best Sony headphone deals that you can currently find online. Some of the offers below won't last long though as there's always high demand for Sony headphones, so if any one of them catches your eye and fits your budget, you shouldn't hesitate proceeding with the purchase because you may miss out on the discount if you do.
Sony WHCH710N wireless headphones -- $100, was $148 The Sony WHCH710N wireless headphones connect to your mobile devices using Bluetooth, and they offer active noise cancellation that automatically senses your environment with Dual Noise Sensor technology to determine the appropriate settings for the best possible listening experience. They're designed to be very lightweight and comfortable to wear, which is important if you want to maximize its battery life of up to 35 hours. The wireless headphones also offer USB-C quick charging with up to 60 minutes of usage after just 10 minutes of charging.
Audio / Video Kid-friendly consumer tech is all the rage these days, so it’s no surprise that there’s an entire market of headphones designed exclusively for our young ones. But when we think “kid-friendly,” sometimes we imagine products that are built to be a bit more throwaway than the adult counterparts. That’s not the case with our list of the best headphones for kids, though.
We want our child-tailored headphones to include parental-controlled volume limiters, to ensure our children aren’t harming their eardrums. Pretty much every entry on our list checks this vital box, but we also wanted to point you and yours toward products that offer exceptional noise-cancelling, built-in mics for phone and video calls, as well as long-lasting batteries for schooldays or a long flight.
Audio / Video Amazon is already offering Black Friday deals well ahead of the shopping holiday, and here's one you wouldn't want to miss if you're searching for true wireless earbuds deals -- an $80 discount for the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II, which brings their price down to $199 from $279 originally. We're not sure if the 29% off will remain available for the next few weeks though, so if you don't want to risk missing out on the savings, you should proceed with the purchase as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II The Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II are included in our list of the best wireless earbuds because of their impressive active noise cancellation, which isn't a surprise because Bose pioneered the development of the technology. The Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II will personalize the ANC depending on your surroundings so that all of the external sound is blocked, but you can activate Aware Mode so that you'll be able to listen to what's going on around you without having to take off the wireless earbuds -- this is useful for crossing the street or giving your food order, for example.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
