Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Black Friday 8K TV deals: Save on LG, Sony, and Samsung By John Alexander Close If you’re always looking for the next advancement in TV tech, you’re likely familiar with the concept of 8K television. You probably know that TVs of this style are quite expensive, though, so may have been waiting for prices to die down before buying one. That’s a logical approach, and it may be a couple of years yet before 8K programming becomes available to the masses, but with Black Friday deals already here for 2023 the shopper with an eye on the ground has a chance to get one for a steal this year. Arranged by brand, these are our favorite Black Friday TV deals on 8K TVs.
Best LG 8K TV Black Friday deals Best Sony 8K TV Black Friday deals Best Samsung 8K TV Black Friday deals If you haven’t completed your home theater setup yet, pair your 8K TV with Black Friday soundbar deals.
Best LG 8K TV Black Friday deals LG How good are LG TVs? As of today, an LG sits at the very top of our listing of the best TVS , picked for superior technically display. Naturally, other LG TVs will be good, too. List list enough includes OLED Black Friday deals , which, combined with 8K, is the highest quality image you can hope to capture on a home theater. Here are the best deals we’re seeing on their selection of 8Ks: 65-inch LG 99 Series QNED Mini-LED 8K Smart TV — 65-inch LG Nano 120Hz 8K LED-LCD Smart TV — LG Signature 88-inch Class OLED Z2 8K Smart TV — Best Sony 8K TV Black Friday deals Sony / Sony Sony is consistently within our listings of the best TV brands.
 They use the well-received Sony XR chip, which provides all-around fantastic performance on the models its in. Perhaps a Sony is the TV to keep up with your 8K expectations. All of the deals below come from Best Buy Black Friday TV deals.
 Here are our favorite deals from the brand for this year’s Sony TV Black Friday sales: 75-inch BRAVIA XR Z9K Mini-LED 8K Smart Google TV — 85-inch BRAVIA XR Z9K Mini-LED 8K Smart Google TV — Best Samsung 8K TV Black Friday deals Samsung / .
It is no coincidence that a Samsung is in both our best and runner-up spots for the best 8K TVs of the year. These TVs are of high quality and, usually, equally high price. Luckily for us, Samsung TV Black Friday deals are bringing the price down to where the rest of us can afford these great TVs. All of these picks are QLED TV Black Friday deals , so if you want OLED deals you’ll have to buy a Sony right now. The following represents our picks for the best deals of the season, with the first two including the models (but not necessarily the sizes) in the aforementioned 8K TVs roundup: 85-inch Samsung Neo QLED 8K QN900B — 65-inch Samsung Neo QLED 8K QN800B — 65-inch Samsung Neo QLED 8K QN900C — 85-inch Samsung Neo QLED 8K QN900C — 65-inch Samsung Neo QLED 8K QN800C — 75-inch Samsung Neo QLED 8K QN800C — 85-inch Samsung Neo QLED 8K QN800C — Editors' Recommendations A massive Sonos Black Friday sale just started at Best Buy 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals: TVs, Fire Sticks, and more The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more Deals Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals and Amazon Black Friday deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals, 55-inch TV Black Friday deals 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
