Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LG StanbyME Go portable briefcase TV review: impractical fun By Caleb Denison Close $1,200.00 Ridiculously fun Built-in streaming apps Solid picture quality Suitably bright for shaded outdoor use High brightness shortens battery life Fairly heavy Expensive Maybe it’s because I’m a child of the 1980s, but LG’s StanbyME Go portable briefcase TV gives me serious Cloak & Dagger vibes (we’re talking the Dabney Coleman classic , not the newer Marvel series). It looks like the kind of briefcase that would hold secret files or some kind of specialized hacking system. It’s got cool factor oozing out of it.
Video review Case in point And what’s in the briefcase? Battery life Performance Bottom line But the important question here is: What do you have left when the cool factor wears off? After all, once you’ve already surprised all your friends with what it is, what’s left is what it can actually do. What can — and maybe more important, what can’t — the LG StanbyME Go do? LG’s giant, wireless OLED TV gets a giant price LG’s giant 97-inch M3 OLED TV eliminates HDMI cables LG prices its Flex, StanByMe TVs, and debuts a new model that doubles as magazine rack Video review Case in point The LG StanbyME Go — yes, that’s StanbyME, not StandByMe — weighs 28 pounds. That’s not nothing for something you’re meant to lug around. It’s not going to give you a hard time toting it from your car to a picnic table, or across the parking lot to your friend’s tailgate. But unless you’re a real hardcore hiker, you’re not going to wanna take this thing backpacking.
The metal doesn’t feel super heavy, but it does feel durable – this case isn’t just for show.
I suspect most of the StanbyME Go’s weight can be attributed to its lithium-ion battery pack, but I reckon some of it may be due to the case. The metal doesn’t feel super heavy, but it does feel durable. This case isn’t just for show; it’s designed to protect the TV and batteries inside, and I get the feeling it will. As much as I’d like to have a spare StanbyME Go around that I could abuse by swinging hammers at it and dropping it from increasing altitudes, I do not. That job remains open to anyone with a spare $1,200 and no emotional attachments to cool tech.
Speaking of lithium-ion batteries and altitude, the StanbyME Go seems like exactly the sort of device that is going to cause you trouble if you take it on a plane. Maybe it’s OK to forget that you packed a couple of little camera battery cells in your checked luggage ( editor’s note: It’s not! ), but imagine answering for this thing after it goes through the checked luggage scanner. I suppose you could treat it as carry-on luggage. But do you really want more of the TSA’s attention in your life? Because this is going to get that for you. I guarantee it. Besides, unless you’re flying first class, this isn’t fitting in the overhead bin or under the seat in front of you.
So, where could you take it? We’ll get to that in a moment. Let’s get through the rest of the important specs first.
And what’s in the briefcase? The StanbyME Go charges off a standard two-prong power cable. These are easy and inexpensive to replace if you happen to lose it.
Flip the two latches, open up the case, and you’ll be greeted with the display lying flat on the bottom level. Behind that is the speaker system — and a little reminder that Dolby Atmos is a brand now , and not the name of a specific audio experience. But we will talk about that audio soon.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Lift the TV panel and you’ll find that it has a remarkable range of motion. You can position it up high, settle it down low, and if you want to watch vertical videos, you can simply rotate it.
The screen itself is a 1080p LCD touchscreen. So, yes, you can control it like a giant tablet. But, also, LG includes a magic-motion remote with the kit so you can use it like the television it is.
Because this is a TV right? I’ve been calling it that for a while. I have seen others call it that. But, is it? Really? Technically, no it is not. It does not have a TV tuner built-in. So if you wanted to post up in the parking lot and erect an antenna for the purposes of pulling down your local broadcast stations, that isn’t happening.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends That is the only thing that prevents this from being considered a TV — and that’s by the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) definition, not my own. Aside from the lack of a tuner, this behaves like an LG TV. And that includes LG’s webOS system and all the apps and functionality that come with it, just like LG’s TVs that you can’t carry with you. You can stream Netflix, use Apple AirPlay , play stored media, and even connect devices via HDMI. And yes, that includes game consoles.
Battery life LG claims the StanbyME Go, just like the original StanbyME , will last on battery power for up to 3 hours. That should be a red flag to you by now. Any time something with a battery is claimed to last “up to” any particular time, you should probably just immediately cut that down by about 30%. On its best day, in Eco mode and low-power mode, you will indeed likely get about 3 hours. However, you probably are not going to want to use it that way. To get the best brightness from this TV, you’ll want to run it in a high-power mode, which will cut down the battery life. So you might want to have some backup power available for longer viewing sessions. Might I recommend one of our favorite portable power stations ? Performance Now, we come to what I think may be the most valuable portion of this review: How bright does it get? Before I get into telling you how many nits this thing can put out and then explaining what that actually means for you, let me make you aware of the so-called “Outdoor TV market” and what’s going on with that whole thing.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends My experience with enjoying TV outdoors, specifically on outdoor TVs, stretches back a long way. It started with my first SunBriteTV 11 years ago — I really put that thing through the wringer. A little over a year later, I tried out another SunBriteTV.
 More recently, I experienced the beast that is the Samsung Terrace. Along the way, I’ve done plenty of RV-ing, during which I have tested plenty of non-outdoor TVs, as well as outdoor-specific models made for RVers from the likes of Furrion.
The StanbyME Go is very much not an outdoor TV.
I’ve seen ’em all. And even those TVs that claim to be good for full sun? Well, they are visible, that’s true. But they also are insanely expensive. There are indoor TVs that can get as bright as some outdoor TVs, but those super-expensive things put all the money into processing and nothing into weatherproofing and dustproofing.
True outdoor TVs are on their own very specific, usually very expensive, level. I point that out because the StanbyME Go is very much not an outdoor TV. It’s a portable TV that can go outdoors, and I actually prefer that. This is way more flexible and useful to me than a fixed, always outdoors TV.
But this also means you need to take care to protect the StanbyME Go — and temper your expectations a bit. Take it to the beach? Sure, but be prepared to vacuum out the sand. Taking it camping? Cool, just don’t put it next to the cooler and expect it to handle a spilled soda. Taking it tailgating? Awesomesauce — unless that sauce is BBQ sauce, in which case, not so awesome for this TV.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Generally speaking, you’re going to want shade for this TV, either made by nature or provided by you. Without shade, you’re gonna have to juice up this TV, and that brightness-goosing is going to hit the battery.
This portable TV — in vivid mode, with all power saving disabled — can put out about 500 nits full-screen. Matter of fact, that’s as bright as it gets for HDR highlights, too. To get that kind of brightness, though, you have to know how to turn off all energy saving, which I missed while shooting the tailgating scene in our video. The TV is not as bright as it can actually get in that segment.
The onboard battery will get you through most movies or a few episodes of your favorite show.
Toward the end of our video, we get a better shot, though on a slightly darker day, and it is a better representation of what the Stanbyme G0 at its brightest looks like outdoors, unless it is a cloudless day with full sun. So while 500 nits is great inside — that’s not enough punch to put up much of an outdoor fight against the brightest object in our solar system.
With a canopy — be that the 10-by-10 pop-up type or the stand-of-Douglas-fir-type — you’re going see this TV just fine. For about 2 hours or so. Which leads me to my next point.
If you’re going to tailgate with this thing or want to watch it for any significant amount of time in the car or while camping, etc., I suggest having some backup power along so that you can power it directly or charge it back up. Or maybe you can just charge it off your EV or from your car if you’re driving.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends The onboard battery will get you through most movies or a few episodes of your favorite show. And if you’re in a dim or dark environment, go ahead and turn on low-power mode and you can get through most movies that aren’t made by Peter Jackson. But for extended fun, you’ll need some power.
I should also mention that the StanbyME Go’s onboard sound system is totally respectable. It’s plenty loud for in-car listening, watching in a hotel, camping in a quiet place, or even chill tailgating. For more raucous environments, I would suggest using a larger external speaker either via Bluetooth or using the aux-out port.
Bottom line Look, this thing is just fun. I love it. I’ve had a blast playing around with the StanbyME Go. I think the most important thing for you to know is that even on an overcast day, it’s still bright enough outside to challenge this and most LCD TVs for visibility. Plan to find it and yourself some shade for the best outdoor enjoyment. Otherwise, there’s no reason you can’t take the StanbyME Go anywhere you want entertainment.
The next important thing for you to know is that it costs $1,200. It might come back down after several months but, well, I’m not sure LG is going to make (or sell) a ton of these things, so this might be one of those times you’re better off getting one soonish if you really want one.
And if you do get one? Can we start an Instagram hashtag and show our StanbyME’s in the craziest places across the world? That’s about the only thing I can imagine that would make the StanBy Me Go anymore more fun than it already is.
Editors' Recommendations Toss LG’s StanbyMe Go 27-inch suitcase TV in your car for $1,000 LG brings Apple TV, Apple Music, and AirPlay to webOS Hub-based TVs LG says its G3 OLED evo TV will be 70% brighter, with no visible wall gap LG’s 42-inch LX3 OLED TV can bend when you want it to LG’s fully wireless StanbyMe is the touchscreen TV you didn’t know you wanted LG Product Reviews TV Reviews Audio / Video If you've got a hankering for a huge TV and you have a correspondingly huge budget, you now have a new option: LG's new line of LG DVLED Extreme Home Cinema TVs are available in sizes ranging from a mild 81-inches all the way up to a gigantic 325 inches. LG's prices are equally gargantuan: You'll pay $70,000 for the smallest model, but the biggest model is exponentially more expensive at $1,700,000 -- about three times the price of the SF90, the most powerful Ferrari road car ever produced. If those numbers don't faze you, you can order your DVLED Extreme Home Cinema model starting today.
The TVs use direct-view LED (DVLED) technology, similar to the kind used by Samsung's The Wall and Sony's Crystal LED displays, where individual microLEDs are used for each pixel, offering many of the self-illuminating advantages of OLED TVs, but with greater brightness, more colors, ultrawide viewing angles, and of course, huge screen sizes. Unlike regular LG TVs, the DVLED Extreme Home Cinema are aimed at the high-end luxury home market, so they won't be sold in regular retail locations. Instead, these displays are available exclusively through a custom installation dealer program.
Audio / Video [LG at CES2021] LG SIGNATURE OLED R - Lifestyle LG caused quite a stir when it unveiled the first production version of its remarkable rollable television at CES 2019.
Audio / Video LG’s latest product launch may be the first television that people spend more time playing with than actually watching. Why? Because this astonishing creation rolls out of, and into, a small box when you’re not using it.
First shown off at CES 2019, LG’s 65-inch Signature OLED R rollable 4K television has finally gone on sale, though for now only in South Korea.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
