Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Master & Dynamic MW09 earbuds review: wireless objects of desire By Simon Cohen Close $399.00 Beautiful design and materials Excellent sound quality Capable noise-canceling Huge amounts of battery life Bluetooth Multipoint Wireless charging A bit heavy for workouts Long delay between ANC modes Perhaps more than any other personal audio brand, New York City’s (M&D) pays as much attention to how its products look and feel as it does to how they sound. Look no further than the company’s latest wireless earbuds , the MW09, for a perfect example.
M&D MW09: design M&D MW09: comfort and controls M&D MW09: connections and codecs M&D MW09: sound quality M&D MW09: noise cancellation and transparency M&D MW09: call quality M&D MW09: battery life Do you need earbuds that are constructed from aluminum and glass? Of course not. But since when do we just focus on what we need? Earfun Free Pro 3 wireless earbuds will make you question Apple’s prices Best wireless earbuds for 2023: Sony, Bose, Soundcore, and more Technics’ new wireless earbuds let you connect three devices at once Fortunately, the MW09’s desirability is more than skin deep. To help justify their $349 starting price, M&D has covered the gamut by adding hi-res audio , wireless charging, Bluetooth Multipoint , a new AI-driven active noise canceling system — and to top it off, an absolutely gigantic amount of battery life. The question is whether the MW09’s combo of beauty and brains seal the deal, or if you should look elsewhere.
I spent the better part of a week with one of the first production MW09 to find out. The earbuds will be available for preorder at masterdynamic.com starting November 14.
M&D MW09: design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I can’t ditch the feeling that if Steve Jobs had been able to design a set of wireless earbuds to accompany the launch of the iPhone 4 in 2010, they would have looked a lot like the MW09. At the time, the iPhone 4’s use of stainless steel-framed glass panels made it by far the sleekest smartphone that had ever been designed, and the MW09’s combination of sapphire crystal and aluminum create the same effect. I think they’re stunning.
The raised, circular section of the earbuds, which bears the M&D logo, looks like it’s a touch control. The sapphire crystal disk fits seamlessly and invisibly into the ringed frame. It’s so smooth that when you run your finger over it, it could provide the perfect surface for taps, swipes, and other gestures. But M&D has always favored physical buttons for its earbuds and headphones, and the MW09 use the same top-mounted controls as the company’s previous models.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends When you buy the MW09, you can pick from two kinds of charging case: aluminum or Kevlar. There’s no difference between their battery capacities or their IPX4 water protection , and both support wireless charging (the MW08’s steel case option did not). But the Kevlar case weighs a little less — 1.7 ounces versus 2.2 ounces for the aluminum case — and it might prove more durable. I’m not sure these distinctions are worth paying the extra $50 unless you also really dig the Kevlar’s carbon-fiber-esque look.
The Kevlar model comes in green, blue, and gunmetal, while the aluminum version comes in black, white and silver, and gold — each with a color-matched case.
Regardless of which one you choose, the build quality is superb. Everything about the MW09 communicates luxury and precision, like an expensive Swiss watch or a German sports car.
M&D MW09: comfort and controls Simon Cohen / Digital Trends There’s no getting around the fact that aluminum and glass weigh more than plastic. The MW09 earbuds tip the scales at 8.1 grams (0.28 ounces) each, which doesn’t sound like a lot until you realize that the Apple AirPods Pro are just 0.19 ounces and the Sony WF-1000XM5 are 0.2 ounces.
Adding almost 50% more mass could prove troublesome, but the MW09 have proven very comfortable for me — even for several hours at a time. Not only is their shape very ergonomic, but they also ship with a generous number of eartips: five sizes of silicone and two sizes of foam, which should help most people find a good fit. To help, the M&D Connect app now has a simple fit test that can check for a good seal.
You may notice the extra weight when jogging or working out. The main mass of the earbud sits outside the ear’s concha, so the pounding of high-impact activities can be felt as gravity tugs on the MW09. It’s not a deal breaker, and with an IP54 rating, the earbuds won’t come to any harm if you use them at the gym, as long as you clean them after use. But there are certainly better choices if workouts are a top priority.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As with previous M&D earbuds, the MW09’s controls are easy to use. Between the large multifunction button on the right earbud and the two-way rocker button on the left, all functions are covered, including playback, volume, call management, ANC/transparency modes, and activating your phone’s voice assistant. There’s no way to modify what the buttons control. But it’s such an intuitive setup that I doubt you’ll want to.
Each button provides excellent tactile response, but using them requires a kind of pinching movement in which you grip the earbud between your thumb and forefinger. It’s a cinch with bare hands, but doing it with gloves on could be tricky, especially when trying to locate the front versus the rear rocker. On the plus side, it’s nearly impossible to trigger a command accidentally when inserting or removing them from your ears.
Rounding out the controls are a set of wear sensors. These can be used to pause your tunes when you remove the earbuds, and they can power down the buds if they sense they’ve been out of your ears for longer than 30 minutes, 1 hour, or 3 hours.
M&D MW09: connections and codecs Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Hi-res and lossless audio get a lot of buzz these days, so it’s not surprising that M&D wanted the MW09 to be as leading edge as possible in terms of format support. In addition to the bog-standard SBC and AAC lossy Bluetooth codecs, the earbuds are also Snapdragon Sound compatible, which adds aptX Adaptive for lossy hi-res at up to 24-bit/96kHz, as well as lossless CD quality at up to 16-bit/48kHz — but that last option requires an equally capable Snapdragon Sound phone. There are still precious few of those to be had. And, of course, we’re talking Android.
More relevant for iPhone owners — no Apple devices are compatible with hi-res or lossless audio over Bluetooth. I’ll discuss how all of this affects sound quality in a moment.
What’s universally useful is the MW09’s Bluetooth Multipoint capability. It lets you connect the earbuds to two devices simultaneously, and the M&D Connect app allows you you manage which two of these devices should be in play at any given time. Switching between active devices is seamless.
With Bluetooth 5.4 compatibility, M&D has prepped the MW09 for the coming wave of Bluetooth LE Audio devices and applications, including Bluetooth Auracast.
 It’s unlikely your current phone can support these yet, but it’s nice to know that you won’t need to upgrade your earbuds when you upgrade (or simply update) your phone.
M&D MW09: sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends When it comes to sound quality, M&D is its own competition. I still consider the company’s MW08 and MW08 Sport some of the best-sounding wireless earbuds you can buy, so my first question was how the MW09 compare.
As expected, they sound fantastic. The MW09 preserve everything I love about the MW08 — the full and rich sound, commanding yet musical bass, detailed midranges, and crystal clear highs — and then they go just a bit further. There’s a slight improvement in detail, with better separation between frequencies. The soundstage also has benefited. It’s wider and yet more precise, giving a greater sense of immersion and realism.
In the app, there’s now a small set of EQ presets, plus a manual five-band equalizer, something M&D has avoided in the past. I said I was OK with this absence on the MW08 given how good they sound right out of the box, but I’m not going to lie, I like that you can tweak the MW09’s sound signature — I just wish there were a way to save manual EQ settings.
And what about the rest of the competition? The MW09 find themselves up against the $280 Sennheiser Momentum True Wireless 3 , $298 Sony WF-1000XM5 , $300 Technics EAH-AZ80 , and $399 Bowers & Wilkins (B&W) Pi7 S2.
It’s not much of a competition. Sadly for Sennheiser, B&W, and Technics, Sony is the only one of the four that can give M&D buyers a real alternative to the MW09 in terms of sound quality. The MW09 and WF-1000XM5 are well-matched in terms of tone and clarity, but each has its strengths. The MW09 excels at high-frequency clarity like vocals, while the XM5 provides more power to the lower end of the scale. The best one for you will likely come down to personal preference — I think they’re both best in class.
As for the MW09’s hi-res and lossless chops via Snapdragon Sound, I was able to hear a perceptible difference while using a Snapdragon-equipped Motorola ThinkPhone versus lossy audio on the iPhone 14. The ThinkPhone provided more detail, better separation of instruments, and much-improved bass musicality. The usual caveat for hi-res audio remains: You’ll need a compatible phone, a source of hi-res music, and a very quiet space in order to appreciate its benefits.
M&D MW09: noise cancellation and transparency Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If you want the best active noise cancellation (ANC) in a set of wireless earbuds, you’re still looking at the AirPods Pro, WF-1000XM5, and Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds.
 These three are in a class by themselves. The same thing is true of their transparency modes.
However, outside of that holy trinity of silence, the MW09 more than hold their own, providing noise cancellation that I found to be all I needed when riding transit or simply walking busy streets. M&D says that the MW09 improve the ability to cancel low-frequency sounds when compared to the MW08. I wasn’t able to hear that. But with the foam eartips installed, they both performed very well. Transparency (or ambient as M&D calls it) is similarly capable, letting you hear conversations and important announcements, or just giving you better situational awareness. Your voice is the one thing that won’t sound quite as clear as everything else, but again, only Apple, Sony, and Bose do a better job.
The one thing I’d like to see M&D improve is the time it takes to switch between ANC modes. From the moment you press and hold on the rocker buttons, it takes 4 to 5 seconds to go from ANC off to ANC on, or from ANC off to ambient on. I realize it can’t be instant (yet), but since many other companies have managed faster times (typically 2 to 2.5 seconds or less), I think M&D should be able to shorten its time, too.
M&D MW09: call quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends M&D has made some big strides in call quality on the MW09, which provide noticeably clearer voice transmission than the MW08. The gain on the mics has also been amped up a hair, so your callers won’t have to bump up their volume as much to hear you.
The MW09 still trail the Apple AirPods Pro and Sony WF-1000XM5 when it comes to keeping background sounds from breaking through — if you happen to be in an especially noisy environment, your voice will suffer from a lot of compression — but we’re talking worst-case situations like having a garbage truck roll past you. The rest of the time, they sound great, and it can verge on studio quality when indoors.
New to the MW09 is a sidetone option. Sidetone lets you hear your own voice more clearly when on calls, which not only sounds more natural, but it also reduces fatigue. It does a good job when in ANC mode, but for the most natural sound, you’ll want to have Ambient and sidetone modes enabled.
M&D MW09: battery life Simon Cohen / Digital Trends There’s only one way to say this: The M&D MW09 have more battery life than you’re ever likely to need. At a claimed 12 hours per charge with ANC on and a huge 16 hours with it off, I never came close to exhausting their capacity during testing. Even if I wanted to, I don’t think I could stand to wear any earbuds for 12 hours without pause. When you take into account the case’s capacity (another 32 hours) and a fast-charge system that adds three hours of playtime for just 10 minutes of charging, the MW09 are never going to let you down when you need them.
Though they’re at the pricier end of the wireless earbuds market, the Master & Dynamic MW09 justify every penny with a design and materials that are second to none, sound quality that is arguably the best in their class, and more battery life than most people will ever need.
They may not rank in the top three for ANC, transparency, or call quality, but neither will they disappoint. And with a future-proofed Snapdragon Sound chipset, along with full LE Audio support, there’s a good chance that these earbuds will still be useful and usable long after others have ceased to be.
If you’re a happy MW08 owner — especially if you have the MW08 Sport — I don’t think you need to rush out and buy the MW09. But if you’ve been thinking of giving M&D a try, there’s never been a better time.
Editors' Recommendations Creative’s Aurvana Ace are the first wireless earbuds to use MEMS drivers Jabra’s latest wireless earbuds have Dolby spatial audio Montblanc’s first wireless earbuds get a little help from Axel Grell Master & Dynamic adds Lamborghini editions of its best headphones Bowers & Wilkins’ wireless earbuds get better battery life and longer range Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Klipsch has joined forces with Ear Micro, a company that creates bespoke wearable tech, to release the T10 Bespoke Ear Computers -- a set of noise-canceling wireless earbuds that can be customized by buyers with a huge array of colors, finishes, and materials. Depending on the choices made, a set of T10 earbuds could set you back a whopping $5,000. They can be ordered starting August 17, at t10bespoke.com and can be delivered within a few weeks, according to Ear Micro, which is overseeing the production of the T10.
The T10 are tiny by wireless earbud standards, and their unusually shaped charging case, which features gull-wing access doors on each side, can be worn as a pendant, completing the jewelry vibe the T10 are meant to possess. This is actually not the first time we've laid eyes on the T10. Klipsch introduced the earbuds at CES 2020, where they made quite a splash for both their tech and their price.
Audio / Video Nura — the Australian company behind the innovative Nuraphone headphones, which measure your ears' unique architecture in order to customize the sound — is working on new first-of-its-kind tech for its upcoming NuraTrue Pro wireless earbuds. The new buds debut today as a Kickstarter campaign. The company says the NuraTrue Pro will be the first wireless audio device (headphones or earbuds) to use Qualcomm’s aptX Lossless codec, the first codec to promise true CD-quality audio over a Bluetooth connection.
Digital Trends was offered an advanced look at the NuraTrue Pro. And while not all of the puzzle pieces are in place just yet, the picture that is coming together looks very promising. Here’s a taste of what’s to come.
Why go lossless? Audio / Video The latest noise-canceling wireless earbuds from 1More combine the size and shape of its popular ColorBuds 2 with wireless hi-res audio. The 1More Evo will sell for $170 when ordering begins on May 10, 2022. They will come in black and white colors, and the company is offering $30 off if you order between May 10 and June 8.
To deliver on the promise of wireless hi-res audio, the Evo use Sony's LDAC Bluetooth codec, which can handle 24-bit audio using lossy compression as long as you have a compatible smartphone or computer. That's a trait they share with the more more expensive Sony WF-1000XM4 and the Technics EAH-AZ60, making the 1More Evo one of the most affordable ways to get LDAC capability in a set of earbuds. Unfortunately, that leaves out anyone using Apple's phones or tablets as iOS and iPad OS do not support LDAC.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
