Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Soundcore Motion 300 review: great sound, even better price By Simon Cohen Close $80.00 Under $100 Full stereo sound Totally waterproof Speakerphone built-in Handy carry strap Illuminated controls No battery level indicator Bigger, heavier than alternatives Hi-res audio is underwhelming Sound gets rough at higher volumes Anker’s Soundcore division has become a thorn in the side of the major audio brands like Sony, JBL, Jabra, and Apple thanks to products that consistently deliver fantastic features and performance at much lower prices. Its latest attempt at repeating that formula is the Motion 300, a Bluetooth speaker that comes packing hi-res audio, a fully waterproof design, stereo pairing, speakerphone functionality, and 13 hours of battery life — all for under $100.
Soundcore Motion 300: design Soundcore Motion 300: controls and connections Soundcore Motion 300: sound quality Soundcore Motion 300: speakerphone quality Soundcore Motion 300: battery life Here’s why the Motion 300 deserves some serious consideration before you buy your next Bluetooth speaker.
Soundcore’s new Motion speakers are tough little portables with hi-res sound Soundcore Motion 300: design The Soundcore Motion 300 is the second Soundcore speaker to use the brand’s distinct metal and rubber design. (The first was the boombox-shaped Soundcore Motion X600.
) Our review model came in black, but you’ll soon be able to pick between blue and green versions, too.
Its slab-like shape is unusual for a portable speaker. These products tend to feature cylindrical or boxy profiles to help with stability and 360-degree sound dispersion. But this is by design — the Motion 300 is meant to stand up, lie down, or hang suspended from its integrated (but removable) carry strap. As such, there are rubber feet on the bottom and rear panels, and Soundcore has installed a tiny gyroscope that can sense the speaker’s orientation. If you want, it can use that information to automatically optimize the sound — I’ll cover that more in a moment.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trebds Its thinner profile could make it easier to carry around, but the $80 Motion 300 is a bit bigger than the $150 Marshall Emberton , $170 Emberton II , and $130 JBL Flip 6.
 It’s also the heaviest of the four speakers: 1.8 pounds for the Motion 300, 1.5 pounds for the Embertons, and 1.2 pounds for the Flip 6.
Like these competitors, the Motion 300 is rated IPX7 , giving it excellent protection against water as long as the rubber charging port cover stays securely in place. It can be fully submerged for short periods of time, but you’ll still need to pay attention if it ends up getting tossed in the pool — it doesn’t float. (Neither do the Embertons, nor the Flip 6.) I didn’t experiment with dropping the Motion 300, but it doesn’t take lab measurements to know that the speaker will fare better if it makes contact on one of its four rubberized corners than on its metal grille — that thing will dent for sure.
An auxiliary input for connecting other music sources would have been a nice touch, but I think it’s fair to say most of our devices are Bluetooth-capable these days.
Soundcore Motion 300: controls and connections Simon Cohen / Digital Trebds All of the Motion 300’s controls are located on the top surface. Well, it’s the top surface when the speaker is standing — at other times, they’ll be accessible from the side. You get buttons for power, Bluetooth pairing, one-touch access to the extra bass EQ mode, and volume up/down, plus a multifunction playback button that can play/pause and track skip. Thanks to backlighting — a very rare feature on Bluetooth speakers — they’re easy to locate even in a darkened room, and they’ve got nice tactile feedback even under their protective rubber skin. You can even adjust the button brightness (or turn it off) in the Soundcore app.
Strangely, despite going to the effort of backlighting the controls, Soundcore hasn’t included a detailed visual indicator of remaining battery life, something that is very common on other portables. The power button will glow white when fully charged, but then stays that way until it hits “low battery” status, at which point it starts to blink red. How much is left when this happens? Hard to say. Soundcore’s documentation isn’t forthcoming. You can still figure it out by checking your phone’s settings or the Soundcore app, but an extra reminder would have been helpful.
With Bluetooth 5.3, the Motion 300 has an exceptional wireless range. It’s not quite as capable as Soundcore’s claimed 328 feet, but I got about 180 feet line of sight, and there wasn’t a single spot in our house that didn’t get excellent connectivity. That’s much better performance than either the Emberton II or Flip 6.
With Bluetooth Multipoint you can simultaneously connect two devices, and I found it was effortless to move seamlessly from one to the other. Soundcore also supports stereo pairing over Bluetooth as long as you have a second Motion 300, but I wasn’t able to test this feature out.
Soundcore Motion 300: sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trebds The Motion 300 might be a bit beefier than its main rivals, but it puts that extra size to good use when it comes to audio by delivering fuller and more expansive sound than the competition. For its price, it has no equals.
You’re probably going to want to keep the extra bass mode turned on. With that mode in use, the Motion 300 has a very respectable amount of low-end. It doesn’t thump or boom or pound, but it provides enough bass response that things sound natural, not tinny. When it’s turned off, things feel a bit hollow.
The midrange is surprisingly detailed and the highs are very clear. The automatic tuning for the three orientations works. It’s not magical, yet I definitely preferred the sound when it was turned on versus when it was turned off. Of the three positions, you’ll get the best bass response by lying the speaker flat. You’ll get the best stereo separation when it’s sitting upright. And while I can’t really say the vertical position offered any improvement over the other two, it’s a convenient option to have.
1.
Soundcore Motion 300, from left, Marshall Emberton II, and JBL Flip 6 It turns out that the Motion 300’s sound quality is most sensitive to volume level. The speaker hits its sweet spot at 50% to 60%. There’s enough volume to easily fill a small space like a kitchen, and everything feels balanced tonally. Once you start pushing into the top 25% of the speaker’s range, the midrange starts to get lost between the lows and highs. Vocals become a bit more harsh, with a tendency toward sibilance (that “s” sound that cymbals and “s”-word vocals can produce).
You can partially mitigate these effects by tweaking the EQ using the Soundcore app’s impressively granular equalizer, but this could take some effort on your part — the tiny selection of EQ presets just won’t cut it. In fairness, this is true of the JBL Flip 6 as well. In fact, because the Flip 6 can get substantially louder than the Motion 300, you start to notice the deterioration of sound quality at around 65% of its range.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trebds As much as I want to give Soundcore props for including hi-res audio compatibility via Sony’s LDAC Bluetooth codec , I found it impossible to tell the difference when comparing the same tracks streamed from an iPhone 14 using AAC and a Motorola ThinkPhone using LDAC.
 And I’m not in the least bit surprised. It can be challenging to hear the difference between these codecs even when listening to wireless headphones or earbuds, which provide a much more intimate experience. A portable speaker like the Motion 300 never had a chance. Moreover, LDAC is far more power-hungry than AAC, and I just don’t think it’s worth the hit you’ll take to battery life.
What does this all mean for daily use? As a travel speaker, it’s going to be a fun hotel room party starter, with a fuller, more immersive sound than you’ll get from the competitors I’ve mentioned above. It’s the same thing for small poolside gatherings and it will give your outdoor dinners the perfect soundtrack. But don’t expect to entertain an entire backyard’s worth of revelers. It might get loud enough to do so, but the results won’t be satisfying.
Soundcore Motion 300: speakerphone quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trebds For some reason, Soundcore doesn’t mention the fact that the Motion 300 can also act as a speakerphone. It’s not called out on the company’s own product page, and you won’t see it listed on Amazon’s page. I didn’t even know the feature existed until I read through Soundcore’s FAQ. That’s truly baffling to me since we’ve been critiquing a lot of recent Bluetooth speakers for failing to include speakerphone functionality. The Sonos Roam , JBL Flip 6, Marshall Emberton, and UE Megaboom 3 — none of them let you take calls.
The Motion 300’s mic is in the top-left corner of the speaker (when standing upright). While it’s not particularly sensitive (your voice won’t get picked up if you’re on the other side of the room), if you stay within 2 to 3 feet of the speaker your callers will hear you very clearly. It’s best used indoors — there’s little ability to cancel out other sounds — but it’s a better out-loud calling experience than you’ll get on most phones.
Soundcore Motion 300: battery life At a claimed 13 hours, the Motion 300’s battery life is certainly enough to get you through most, if not all, of a day’s worth of listening. Keep in mind that this is based on running the speaker at 50% volume, with the LDAC codec option disabled — another reason to skip hi-res audio.
This kind of stamina is what you can expect from most Bluetooth speakers at this size and price — the Flip 6, Sonos Roam, and UE Boom 3 all provide between 10 and 15 hours. If you want more, two of the few options is the Marshall Emberton (20 hours) or the Emberton II (up to 30 hours).
Soundcore continually demonstrates that it knows how to build great audio products for less money than the big brands, and the Motion 300 keeps that tradition alive. It may not have the classic good looks of a Marshall speaker, the incredible loudness of a JBL speaker, or the smarts of a Sonos speaker, but with a rugged and waterproof construction, great sound quality, speakerphone capability, and a price that undercuts every competitor in its class, the Soundcore Motion 300 should be on everyone’s Bluetooth speaker short list when it comes time to buy.
Editors' Recommendations Anker Soundcore’s Motion X500 packs spatial audio into a more portable package Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
