Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How Much is Spotify Premium? Download Songs from Spotify Share a Spotify Playlist How to Cancel Spotify Premium Apple Music vs Spotify Spotify Free Trial Delete Spotify Account Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is a network music streamer and why do you need one? By Michael Bizzaco Close CDs and vinyl records are two physical audio formats that some folks swear by, especially when it comes to sound quality.
 But even the most tenacious audiophiles have come around to the excellent sound quality now available on digital streaming services, so much so that digital audio has become the primary way we consume our music. But with the range of hi-fi setups people have at home, new and old, one of the best ways to bring your digital audio and online streaming services to them is by adding a dedicated network music streamer.
What can you expect from a network music streamer? Why should you buy a network music streamer? What should you know before buying a network music streamer? Are there any network music streamer alternatives? Parting thoughts A network music streamer is an internet-connected hardware component that streams your favorite digital music using an internet connection. A good network music streamer is easy to use, compatible with several file formats and music streaming services, and will ensure your digital music sounds good to appease both casual listeners and esteemed decibel sages.
There’s a lot to learn about these components though, so let’s get started with some of the basics.
Best network music streamers 2023: make your hi-fi smarter What is Qobuz? Music, features, and pricing explained Wiim Pro Plus streamer targets audiophiles with upgraded DAC What can you expect from a network music streamer? The Cambridge Audio CXN Cambridge Audio Network music streamers are available from big-name brands such as Sonos, Cambridge Audio, Naim, NAD, Yamaha, and Technics, as well as from smaller brands like Wiim and Audioengine. They come in all shapes and sizes from compact paperback novel size to that of a Blu-ray player or AV receiver.
 Music streamers include a variety of connectivity options, such as digital and analog audio, USB ports, XLR hookups, Bluetooth, AirPLay, Chromecast, and connect to the internet either by Wi-Fi, Ethernet, or both. In other words, there’s no shortage of ways to connect a music streamer to devices from receivers and amplifiers to powered speakers , smartphones, headphones , TVs, and more.
Once you have the streamer connected to your audio system and paired to your Wi-Fi network (or hardwired to it for the fastest and most stable connection), you’ll be able to use it to listen to music using platforms like Spotify, Apple Music , Tidal , Qobuz , Deezer , and several others. With USB connectivity, many music streamers will also allow you to plug in a USB flash drive or external hard drive that contains music files.
Depending on what type of network music streamer you own, you may also be able to access music from a compatible network-attached storage device (NAS) or computer on the same Wi-Fi network as the network streamer. There are also music streamers that support multi-room audio, such as Sonos and Bluesound , and/or can interface with other streamers from the same brand, which (in most cases) will allow you to enjoy multi-room audio by having Device A wirelessly linked up to Device B, C, D, etcetera.
You’ll also be able to find music streamers with built-in storage options. This is especially convenient if you want to keep all your hi-res files located on one easy-to-access drive.
Why should you buy a network music streamer? The Yamaha WXC50 Yamaha There are a number of benefits to owning a network music streamer, even if there may be a bit of a learning curve to using it.
First and foremost, a music streamer is going to have a far more powerful and efficient DAC (digital-to-analog converter) than most everyday music-listening devices, such as iPhones and Android mobile devices and our home computers. A DAC has the very important job of converting all the digital data that it receives from sources like audio-streaming services and hard disk files into analog signals so we can hear them.
The types of DACs that are built into network music streamers are usually designed to handle the much tougher job of decoding hi-res audio formats. We’re talking CD quality and beyond, including formats like FLAC, DSD, WAV, AIFF, ALAC, and other top-shelf audio content. And because they’re internet-connected, either via LAN or Wi-Fi, the bandwidth ensures the full potential of the music. The end result: The cleanest-sounding audio possible, regardless of the source.
And do note that not all DACs are created equal. For example, a music streamer like the budget-friendly Wiim Mini is great for streaming across different platforms, but the streamer’s internal DAC may not be as good as one you’d find in a dedicated AV receiver or amplifier. But in the case of a device like the Cambridge Audio CXN , this Cambridge streamer has two internal Wolfson DACs, which is going to give you bright and detailed audio quality that is leaps and bounds beyond the Wiim Mini’s capabilities (and that of many other AV components).
Another benefit of network music streamers is that many of them have interfaces and apps that house all of your sources and components — streaming services, line inputs, NAS drives, whole-home speakers — so they can all be selected and controlled from one unified place, like a smartphone or computer. Many of them also have physical controls and LED screens you can access, too.
What should you know before buying a network music streamer? The Wiim Pro network music streamer Simon Cohen / Digital Trends When investing in any new AV component, especially something like a network music streamer, it’s good to decide what criteria are most important to you, as it can vary from one user to the next. Here are some thinking points that we believe most folks will share common ground on.
Budget The age-old question of “How much are you willing to spend?” will definitely play into your music streamer purchase. Are you looking to get away with spending as little as possible on a device that delivers bare-bones functionality, or is money no object and you want your music streamer to be packed with the best in audio-processing tech and features? Generally speaking, network music streamers range in price from just over $100 to several thousand dollars. And while the adage of “you get what you pay for” definitely plays a part here, there are a number of products that punch well above their weight from a cost-to-quality point of view, one of which is the excellent Wiim Pro that’s just $150.
Sound quality Now, for the most part, most network music streamers are going to deliver at least CD-level sound quality at 16-bit/44.4kHz. But if hi-res lossless content and 24-bit Tidal or Apple Music jam sessions are going to be everyday requirements, you’ll want to make sure you’re purchasing a music streamer that can handle these higher-end formats and services.
Compatibility While most network music streamers can handle a diverse array of AV connectivity and streaming platforms, you’ll want to make sure that the streamer you invest in is going to play nicely with your existing receiver, amplifier, speakers, etc.
Furthermore, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi compatibility is pretty standard across the board, but only certain network music streamers may support higher-end listening platforms (like Tidal and Qobuz ) and/or the ability to use network sharing to access tracks and playlists on your computer or an NAS.
User interface It’s always nice when the network music streamer you’ve purchased has its own dedicated interface with native support for popular platforms like Apple Music and Tidal built-in, along with features like an LED touchscreen, buttons, a remote control, and a downloadable app with customizations a-plenty. Sonos is a company that does this extremely well.
These full-component streamers with their own apps allow you access to the full music quality the service is capable of, whereas a so-called “endpoint” streamer must be controlled through a device, usually via something like AirPlay, Chromecast, or even Bluetooth, which can limit the sound quality.
For example, Sonos’ native Apple Music integration supports the service’s quality, up to 24-bit/48kHz lossless. But with a network streamer that doesn’t have native Apple Music, you’d need to use AirPlay or Bluetooth to send Apple Music from your phone to the streamer, limiting the quality to, say, 16-bit-48kHz, which, to be honest, is still pretty good, but keep this in mind if you’re a more discerning audiophile. Also, when you leave the house or go out of range of the network streamer, your device disconnects and the music stops. Chromecast, it’s worth noting, is capable of up to 24-bit/96kHz with compatible devices.
Are there any network music streamer alternatives? Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends A network music streamer can be a pricy purchase, but is there any other way to get high-quality audio playing through your speakers or surround sound, without forking over hundreds of dollars? The simple answer is yes.
Pretty much any solid streaming device, like the Apple TV 4K (2022) or Chromecast with Google TV, will give you access to various music-streaming platforms. You’ll just need to make sure that you connect these components to your AV system, whether you’re rocking an awesome soundbar or a complete 7.1.2 Dolby Atmos configuration.
For a device like the Apple TV 4K, the Tidal app can be downloaded and installed directly to the device, so subscribers to the service won’t need to use AirPlay or Bluetooth to beam music from their phone or tablet to the Apple TV.
Parting thoughts A solid network music streamer doesn’t need to cost a fortune, but they’re a great way to bring high-quality and easily-accessible music, podcasts, and whatever else your services offer to your music setup, whether that’s a vintage receiver and speaker, modern integrated amplifier, or a set of powered speakers. Now that you’re armed with some knowledge of what a network music streamer is and what you might want to look for in one, we have some great suggestions for you in our best network music streamers roundup.
 Happy network streaming.
Editors' Recommendations How much is Apple Music, and how can you get it for free? Tidal vs. Spotify: Which music streaming service has the features you need? What is Amazon Music: everything you need to know What is YouTube Music? Everything you need to know What is Tidal? The hi-fi streaming music service fully explained Music Streaming Services Spotify Audio / Video If you've got a hi-fi system you love, but it doesn't speak Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, AirPlay, or any other wireless streaming languages, NAD's new CS1 Endpoint Network Streamer ($349) provides a super-simple and compact upgrade.
The London, England-founded, Canadian-based company, announced the compact audiophile-grade component today that allows you to add streaming capabilities to pretty much any music system. The CS1 can play high-res audio at up to 24-bit/192kHz (with its internal DAC also supporting MQA decoding) via various sources, with connectivity options that include Bluetooth 5.0, dual-band Wi-Fi, and Ethernet, and features support for Apple AirPlay 2, GoogleCast, Spotify Connect, Tidal Connect, and Roon. Through Bluetooth, however, you can stream music from any app from a smartphone, computer, or tablet, opening up the playback options.
Audio / Video If you want to get serious about sound, then it’s time to talk about digital-to-analog converters, or DACs, as they're more easily referred to. These components play a vital role in digital sound, and adding or upgrading a DAC could lead to a significant improvement to your audio … especially if you are using hi-res or lossless audio formats. Here’s what you need to know.
What is a DAC? As we mentioned above, DAC stands for “digital-to-analog converter." These devices became a vital part of our music technology around the time we started making the switch from analog formats such as vinyl records and cassette tapes to the digital sound files and formats that we commonly use today.
Audio / Video These days, music is more accessible than ever and in increasingly rich audio formats. Gone are the days of struggling to unearth a quality MP3 from whatever reputable downloader you can find online. Now, all one has to do is sign up for a top music streaming service to choose from a myriad of audio codecs -- from basic MP4 files to the remarkable quality of lossless tracks and impressive Dolby Atmos sound-staging. The only thing left to worry about is the type of headphones you'll be using to experience these high-quality tracks.
While a top-rated pair of wired headphones can go a long way in enriching your listening experience, there are ways to push your chosen pair even further. That's where a headphone amp comes into play.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
