Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Your next noise-canceling earbuds may use Navy sonar tech By Simon Cohen Close xMEMS A company that is pioneering the use of earbud speakers that are manufactured like microchips says it has developed a way to convert inaudible, high-power ultrasound into hi-fi stereo sound, using a single driver. The result is what the company — called xMEMS — says is a micro-electromechanical system (with a convenient MEMS acronym) driver that’s powerful enough to deliver sound as well as active noise cancellation in a set of wireless earbuds.
According to xMEMS, these MEMS drivers possess a number of advantages for buyers and manufacturers of earbuds, like extreme ruggedness, a huge frequency-response range, ultrafast transient response (the ability to quickly shift from one sound to another), and more accurate sound reproduction.
But because MEMS drivers use tiny silicon membranes to produce the moving air that our ears detect as sound, they suffer from one critical weakness: when used in vented earbuds (most ANC earbuds have vents), they can’t generate the needed sound pressure level (SPL) at lower frequencies that are essential for ANC. For active noise cancellation to be effective, it requires 120 dB SPL at 20Hz, but earbud venting robs the 20Hz frequency of about 20 dB SPL. This means that for any driver to deliver the needed power, it has to produce 140 dB SPL, and current MEMS drivers can only reach 120 dB.
Two xMEMS Cypress drivers seen sitting on a U.S. dime for scale.
xMEMS Manufacturers that have wanted to make wireless earbuds that use MEMS drivers and provide ANC have had to resort to a dual-hybrid driver design, like Creative’s Aurvana Ace and Aurvana Ace 2. These are the first MEMS-based wireless earbuds , but they use a traditional dynamic driver to generate the needed low-frequency SPL.
Creative’s Aurvana Ace are the first wireless earbuds to use MEMS drivers What is ANC and how do noise-cancelling headphones work? Jabra’s latest wireless earbuds have Dolby spatial audio xMEMS says its latest MEMS driver, which it calls Cypress, can overcome the traditional SPL limitation and is the first to offer both hi-fi sound and ANC capabilities from a single MEMS driver. To make it work, xMEMS has turned to ultrasound technology that was originally developed by both the U.S. and Soviet navies in the mid-1960s for sonar applications. This original research proved that it was possible to embed human- audible sound information within a beam of inaudible ultrasound.
The Cypress driver is capable of generating high-SPL ultrasound (with human-audible sound modulated into its sound waves) and then routing these ultrasonic waves through a set of valves that effectively filter out the ultrasonic frequencies, leaving normal audible sound in the 20Hz-20kHz range — at the needed 143 dB SPL for ANC to be effective.
While the original sound-from-ultrasound techniques from the 60s proved poor at maintaining acceptable levels of audio fidelity, xMEMS claims the Cypress can deliver sound that is actually more faithful to original recordings than competing speaker technologies.
At the moment, the Cypress is at the working prototype stage, and xMEMS intends to demo the technology to CES attendees in January 2024. The company plans a full production rollout by the end of 2024, which means we could see the first noise-canceling earbuds with Cypress’ ultrasonic technology by early 2025.
Editors' Recommendations JLab jumps into hi-res and Bluetooth LE audio with $200 Epic Lab Edition earbuds Earfun Free Pro 3 wireless earbuds will make you question Apple’s prices Olivia Rodrigo’s latest collaboration is a set of limited-edition Sony LinkBuds S Marshall updates its noise-canceling earbuds with better battery life Beyerdynamic adds noise canceling to its Blue Byrd neckband earbuds Headphones Tech News Audio / Video Montblanc, the iconic maker of luxury writing instruments, is expanding its reach into the audio world with its first set of wireless earbuds. The MTB 03 are small and stylish, with active noise cancellation (ANC) and a design that incorporates the company's instantly recognizable glossy black finish and rounded star motifs. They're available starting July 1 at all Montblanc boutiques and Montblanc.com, for 345 British pounds (about $438).
The MTB 03 benefit from the expertise of Axel Grell, the man behind the development of many of Sennheiser's headphones and earbuds. Montblanc says that Grell was responsible for creating the MTB 03's sound signature. This is a consistent pattern for Montblanc, which partnered with Audeze’s founder, Alex Rosson when it began its audio journey with the MTB 01 wireless ANC headphones, which launched in 2020.
Audio / Video In April 2023, Denon announced that it had acquired Australian wireless earbud maker, Nura, and that we could expect to see new earbuds from the combined brands "soon." Today, Denon has effectively relaunched Nura's two wireless earbuds -- the NuraTrue and NuraTrue Pro -- as the Denon Perl ($199) and Denon Perl Pro ($349). Denon says a limited number of Denon Perl and Perl Pro headphones are now available for purchase at Denon.com, with a full rollout planned for later this year.
The Perl and Perl Pro, which Denon has stylized with a capital L (PerL), appear to preserve all of the NuraTrue and NuraTrue Pro's features, and in looking at the new Denon earbuds, it appears that they're also physically identical to Nura's now-discontinued products. One thing that has changed is the price of the NuraTrue Pro. Already fairly expensive at $329, Denon's version is now $20 more.
Audio / Video Anker's Soundcore division has got a new set of wireless earbuds. And while the name may sound familiar -- they're called the Liberty 4 NC -- their price is a nice surprise: just $100. That buys you a set of hi-res-capable wireless earbuds that Anker claims have really impressive active noise cancellation (ANC) and battery life.
Anker calls it "Adaptive ANC 2.0" a system that uses two mics -- one inside your ear and one on the outside of the earbuds -- to adapt ANC performance instantly in any environment. The company must be confident that the system works well; it claims it blocks out up to 98.5% of external noise. Not even the superb Apple AirPods Pro 2 claim that kind of performance.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
