Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Music Guides How to add family members to your Apple Music subscription By Derek Malcolm and Nick Perry Close Apple Music is one of the go-to streaming services for all things melodic and melody-adjacent. Hosting over 88,000 million subscribers globally and featuring upwards of 100 million tracks from the leading artists of today, Spotify's nemesis has plenty to love.
Before you get started What is Family Sharing? Setting up Family Sharing Setting up Family Sharing on iOS Setting up Family Sharing on Mac Start using Apple Music Troubleshooting If you're a new subscriber, Apple Music gives you a break-in period of one free months of service. After the trial period, memberships are billed on a monthly or yearly cycle with the most popular Individual plan coming it at $11 per month / $109 per hear. While that's on par with the average cost for other music streamers, saving a buck here or there is never a bad thing. While college students can get Apple Music for $6/month, another way to save on your subscription is with an Apple Music family plan for $17 per month.
In this guide, we'll teach you how to set up Apple's Family Sharing and how to add users to your account. Before you know it, you'll have multiple family members streaming tunes under one roof (and helping you pay that Apple Music premium).
Difficulty Duration What You Need Apple ID handy iOS device or Mac Apple Music Family plan Apple Before you get started In order to follow the instructions in this guide, you’re going to need a few things, some of which are more obvious than others. First off, you’ll need an Apple ID, which anyone with at least one iOS or macOS device or other Apple service should have.
You’ll also need an Apple Music Family subscription, of course. If you’re setting up Apple Music from scratch, be sure to choose a Family subscription instead of an Individual one. If you'd like to change an Individual Apple Music subscription to a Family subscription, it’s a fairly quick process, and detailed instructions are available via the support section of the Apple website.
What is Family Sharing? Family Sharing is a convenient way to share content across a number of Apple services, including movies, iCloud storage, apps, and our focus today, Apple Music. For only $17 per month, account administrators can host up to six Apple Music users under one family subscription. Since everyone under Family Sharing uses their own Apple IDs, everyone gets their own preferences and recommendations.
Best of all: When you enable purchase sharing with Family Sharing, the entire family can swap movies, shows, books, and music — just as long as the purchasing user approves sharing for the other group members.
Setting up Family Sharing Instead of functioning independently, Apple Music’s Family plan piggybacks on Apple’s Family Sharing infrastructure. If you already have Family Sharing set up and are just looking to add new family members, skip to the next section. If you’re setting up your Family subscription for the first time and have never used Family Sharing, read on.
The Apple Music Discovery Station on an iPhone.
Phil Ninckinson / Digital Trends Setting up Family Sharing on iOS If you’re reading this article on your iPhone or iPad, you’re in luck: You can set up Family Sharing right now in a few simple steps.
Step 1: Open the Settings app and either tap on your name at the very top, or on older iOS devices, scroll down and open the iCloud settings.
Step 2: Tap Family Sharing : Then tap Set Up Your Family.
From here, follow the prompts to invite and add family members until setup is completed.
How to download music from SoundCloud How to add music to your iPhone or iPad How to play Apple Music on an Alexa device Step 3: Now all you have to to is invite family member. If you’re using iOS 16 or later, go to Settings and then Family.
Step 4: From here, tap the Add Member icon in the top right.
Follow the instructions to invite family members via Messages. Here you can also create a Child account for sharing as well, if your child doesn't have an Apple ID. You can also set up parental controls for them as well.
Digital Trends Setting up Family Sharing on Mac If you’re using a Mac, setting up Family Sharing is as easy or perhaps even easier than using an iOS device. The steps are just a little different and are just slightly different depending on your version of macOS.
Step 1: Find your way to your Mac's System Settings (Ventura or later) or System Preferences (Monterey or earlier). You can find either by clicking the Apple logo in the top left corner.
Open the Settings app or click on the ever-present Apple logo in the top left of the screen, then select System Settings.
 Once the preferences window is open, click on your name or Family or Family Sharing, depending on your version of macOS. For devices running macOS Mojave or earlier, you’ll click iCloud instead of Family.
Step 2: Now, find the Family Sharing option — it's either through clicking your name or there will be a Family Sharing menu right there. Either way, select it.
Step 3: If you're setting it up for the first time, click Set Up Family and follow the on-screen instructions.
Step 4: Now you have to add members. Simply click Add member (Ventura) or Add Family Member (Monterey) then follow the onscreen instructions to invite members and select the services you'd like to share. Like with the iOS steps, you can also create Apple IDs for children here, too.
Step 5: All that's left to do is invite your family members to join your family. They will have to accept the invitation to start sharing your Apple Music and other subscriptions.
Start using Apple Music Now, you should be all set on your end. All that’s left is for your family members to actually start using Apple Music. All they need to do is log into Apple Music with the same credentials they use for Family Sharing, and they’ll be ready to start listening. That said, every once in a while, things don’t go as smoothly as you hoped.
Troubleshooting A common issue is a family member using multiple accounts and logging into either Apple Music or iCloud (in the case of Family Sharing) with the wrong one. That’s the first thing to check if one person is having trouble accessing Apple Music.
Logging out and back in can sometimes fix issues that prevent you or a family member from accessing a Family subscription. First, try logging out of the affected Apple Music account and back in again. If that doesn’t fix the issue, try doing the same thing with all of your Apple services. If neither of those work, try removing everyone from Family Sharing and adding them back. This is a little tedious, but following the steps above should make quick work of it.
Editors' Recommendations How to switch from Spotify to Apple Music How to cancel Spotify Premium How to find your lost AirPods using the Find My app LG’s WebOS TVs get a native Apple Music app How many iconic Apple sounds can you recognize in this clever music track? Apple Audio / Video Apple How-To Guides Music Streaming Services Audio / Video Listening to music with wireless headphones or true wireless earbuds is already an intimate and immersive experience. Dolby Atmos Music -- a spatial audio format -- can take that sense of immersion to the next level, thanks to its uncanny ability to create a sense of music in three dimensions.
But with the release of iOS 15, Apple has added head-tracking to the spatial audio experience in Apple Music, bringing that sense of immersion and realism into an entirely new realm, though it might not be for everyone.
Mobile Apple is offering six months of its Apple Music streaming service for free to owners of AirPods and select Beats products.
Eligibility for the offer covers current owners and future purchasers of the following devices: AirPods Pro, AirPods with Charging Case, AirPods with Wireless Charging Case, AirPods Max, Beats Studio Buds, Powerbeats, Powerbeats Pro, and Beats Solo Pro.
Audio / Video You don't need a dozen speakers to enjoy Dolby Atmos Music anymore. It's now something anyone with an iPhone, an Apple Music subscription, and a set of headphones can hear. In the not-too-distant future, Android users will be able to get in on the Atmos action, too.
But does Dolby Atmos Music actually sound better? Given Apple's spin, plus my own experiences listening to Atmos Music via Tidal on my home theater system, my expectations were very high for Dolby Atmos via headphones.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
