Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals: Sales to shop now By Lucas Coll Close Though Black Friday was yesterday, there are still some excellent Black Friday deals around, making this the perfect time to upgrade to a larger TV that you ordinarily couldn’t afford. A 65-inch TV has a sizeable screen that’s perfect for a living room home theater setup without being too ridiculously big. To save you the hard work of hunting for deals, we’ve got all the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals right here, from well-known brands like Samsung, Sony, and others.
Insignia 65-inch F30 Series 4K Fire TV — $380, was $550 Samsung 65-inch 7 Series 4K Tizen TV — $448, was $500 Sony 65-inch X75K 4K Google TV — $580, was $700 Hisense 65-inch U6GR 4K QLED Roku TV — $600, was $800 Samsung 65-inch Q60B 4K QLED Tizen TV — $798, was $1,000 TCL 65-inch 6-Series 4K QLED Google TV — $800, was $1,000 Vizio 65-inch H1 4K OLED SmartCast TV — $1,080, was $1,800 LG 65-inch B2 Series 4K OLED WebOS TV — $1,300, was $1,900 Insignia 65-inch F30 Series 4K Fire TV — $380, was $550 Best Buy Insignia is Best Buy’s in-house TV brand, and it makes some solid (not to mention affordable) smart televisions for those on a budget. The Insignia F30 Series 4K TV runs on Amazon’s Fire TV software, which makes it a great choice for Prime members and anybody with Alexa-enabled smart home devices. Of course, you don’t need either of those things to enjoy this television — the Insignia F30 has Amazon Alexa built right in, and the Fire TV OS puts all of your other favorite streaming apps like Netflix and Disney+ right at your fingertips. It’s also HDR -compatible, with support for HDR 10 for media that offers high dynamic range for improved color and contrast.
Samsung 65-inch 7 Series 4K Tizen TV — $448, was $500 Image used with permission by copyright holder This 4K TV features Samsung’s Crystal 4K Processor and display along with the brand’s Tizen software interface that makes streaming all of your favorite content a breeze. The TV features a Game Enhancer mode that automatically optimizes the display’s settings when you fire up your Xbox or PlayStation, while Motion Rate 120 lets the 60Hz panel simulate 120Hz to smooth out the action during fast-paced scenes. The included OneRemote can even be used to control all compatible devices, and while it doesn’t feature built-in voice controls, the Samsung 7 Series 4K TV can be synced with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant devices if you have any.
Sony 65-inch X75K 4K Google TV — $580, was $700 Image used with permission by copyright holder Along with Samsung, Sony is another one of the best TV brands that you’ll see frequently in your search for Black Friday TV deals. Its X75K 4K Google TV is one of the maker’s entry-level models, offering everything you need in a smart TV without a bunch of bells and whistles you may not want to pay for. Sony’s 4K Processor X1 does more than let you enjoy modern Ultra HD content — it also upscales legacy media to look better than ever before (in other words, your non-4K DVDs and Blu-rays will look smooth and not blurry or “stretched out” when played on this 4K TV). The Google TV smart streaming platform also has both Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa built right into it, allowing you to control the TV using your voice and integrate it into your wider smart home setup if you want.
Hisense 65-inch U6GR 4K QLED Roku TV — $600, was $800 Image used with permission by copyright holder If you can bump up your budget a little bit, it’s worth considering the upgrade to a QLED TV like the Hisense U6GR. This TV features a quantum-dot overlay (the “Q” in “QLED”) that captures and amplifies the LED’s backlighting to produce a brighter and more color-vibrant picture. That makes QLED a great choice for brighter rooms that get a lot of daylight, and for spaces where you’re likely to be watching television during the day, like your living room. Along with that, the Hisense U6GR 4K TV features the slick Roku TV smart interface, support for Dolby Vision HDR and Dolby Atmos sound , and a voice remote that works with Siri, Amazon Alexa, and Google Assistant. QLED TVs have come down quite a bit in price, too, with Black Friday TV deals making them even more affordable now if you grab one like this while it’s on sale.
Samsung 65-inch Q60B 4K QLED Tizen TV — $798, was $1,000 Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung is the brand that pioneered quantum-dot panel technology, and today, you’ll even find QLED screens on Samsung laptops. While many other TV makers offer their own QLED panels, Samsung is still the top name in this tech, and the 65-inch Q60B 4K smart TV is a good example of why. With the Tizen software platform, you’ve got easy access to all the top streaming apps and content libraries, while Samsung’s Quantum Processor Lite upscales older content so your old favorites aren’t left out. It also offers HDR support so you can take advantage of the expanded color range and contrast depth that modern media offers, while Q-Symphony and OTS Lite deliver an immersive simulated surround sound experience. The SolarCell Remote also doesn’t require any batteries and has Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant voice assistants built in.
TCL 65-inch 6-Series 4K QLED Google TV — $800, was $1,000 Image used with permission by copyright holder TCL is another brand to look at if you’re in the market for a QLED TV. The TCL 6-Series Google TV is a notable step up from the brand’s cheaper 5-Series models, with this Google TV model featuring some enhancements like Mini-LED technology and fully localized dimming zones that reduce the blooming effect and create more consistent backlighting and contrast. The panel also features a 120Hz refresh rate in contrast to the 60Hz refresh rate of the TVs we’ve listed so far, which, in conjunction with its variable refresh rate (VRR), makes this a very good choice of TV for gaming on your PlayStation 5 or Xbox Series S/X. Thankfully, TCL and Google seem to have worked out most of the software kinks that we encountered in our review shortly after this model was released, and the TCL 6-Series 4K TV fully supports Dolby Vision, HDR10, HDR10+ and HLG high dynamic range formats.
Vizio 65-inch H1 4K OLED SmartCast TV — $1,080, was $1,800 Dan Baker/Digital Trends Vizio is generally considered a budget name that competes with the likes of TCL and Hisense, so you might be surprised to find that this brand has been cranking out some solid OLED TV models lately. OLED, short for organic light-emitting diode, is a relatively recent innovation in TV panel technology that utilizes individual particles rather than traditional LED backlighting. The result is nearly perfect black levels and unrivaled color accuracy, but OLED TVs aren’t usually cheap. The Vizio H1 4K television, on the other hand, is a more affordable OLED TV. Its SmartCast platform gives you everything you need to stream your favorite content, while Dolby Vision, HDR10/10+, and HLG support let you enjoy it how it was meant to be enjoyed. The TV also has a nice suite of gaming features including a 120Hz refresh rate, AMD FreeSync Premium, HDMI 2.1 ports, and VRR.
LG 65-inch B2 Series 4K OLED WebOS TV — $1,300, was $1,900 LG Just as Samsung pioneered QLED technology, LG is the brand that first brought OLED TVs to market. It still leads the way here, and actually has several different lines of OLED TVs available. The LG B2 Series 4K TV is one of the newer models from the LG 2022 OLED television lineup. Its OLED panel features self-lit pixels to provide 100% color volume and fidelity along with deep dynamic contrast. Support for Dolby Vision, HDR10, and HLG also ensure your media will look as sharp and color-accurate as possible. Gamers will appreciate Nvidia G-Sync , AMD FreeSync Premium, and two HDMI 2.1 ports, and the built-in LG Game Optimizer automatically adjusts the TV’s settings when you start up a video game. This is a great OLED TV for movies, shows, gaming, and anything else, and early Black Friday TV deals are your chance to grab it for a whopping discount.
Editors' Recommendations Best Blink Black Friday deals: Get a security camera for $20 Best Black Friday toy deals: Lego, Nerf, Barbie Dreamhouse, and more The 3 best Alienware gaming PC Black Friday deals available now This is hands-down the best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deal Hurry! PS5 consoles are discounted in Walmart’s Black Friday sale Audio / Video Black Friday Entertainment December is quickly approaching, and if you have a Star Wars or Lego lover in your life, then this Lego Star Wars advent calendar is the perfect gift to get them. While there isn't a big discount on it during these Black Friday deals, you can still grab it from Walmart for $34 instead of $50, saving yourself a cool $11. Also, the sooner you pick it up, the better so that your loved one (or yourself) can start it as soon as it's time to.
Why you should buy the Lego Star Wars advent calendar It's not often you see something as unique and fun as the Lego Star Wars advent calendar, especially since it doesn't seem like a product that doesn't have any thought put into it. Everything that comes in the advent calendar is self-contained, meaning you don't need to have additional Lego sets or anything to enjoy it. So this can be a great first introduction to Star Wars and Lego for kids or even a great gift for adults who don't usually collect Legos but can have a nice and fun experience without too much buy-in in terms of time.
Audio / Video Sonos is one of the brands to watch for during Black Friday because it's one of the most popular names in the audio industry. If you're planning to buy a new soundbar or speaker, you're in luck because Best Buy just launched a Sonos Black Friday sale. There are discounts on different kinds of devices, with prices ranging from affordable to expensive, so no matter your needs and budget, there's surely going to be a perfect offer for you from these Black Friday deals. You'll need to hurry in choosing what you'll purchase if you're interested though, because we're not sure when these bargains will expire.
What to buy in Best Buy's Sonos Black Friday sale If you're on the hunt for Black Friday soundbar deals, we highly recommend going for the Sonos Arc, which is Smart Home Coffee lovers, you should take advantage of the discounts from Black Friday deals to get a Keurig coffee maker for much cheaper than usual. These machines are known for their simplicity of use and consistent brewing output, with different models for making single-cup beverages, iced drinks, and more. However, you should know that whenever Keurig devices appear in coffee maker Black Friday deals, they don't last long because they're always in high demand. If you don't want to miss out on the potential savings, you're going to have to push through with your transaction as soon as possible. To make things easier for you, we've gathered our favorite offers below.
Best Keurig Black Friday deal The Keurig K-Express is among the cheapest ways to get into Keurig's system of coffee makers, but that doesn't mean you're giving up a lot of features with this machine. The Keurig K-Express brews your drink from coffee pods in just minutes, and all it takes is pushing a button. The coffee maker can make cups of 6 ounces, 8 ounces, and 10 ounces, and it comes with a removable water reservoir with a capacity of 36 ounces so it can make multiple cups before you need to refill it. Walmart's Keurig deals for Black Friday brings the price of the Keurig K-Express down to an even more affordable $35 following a $24 discount on its original price of $59, but you need to hurry with your purchase because stocks may already be running out.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
