Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons WIRED Staff Business Join Us for LiveWIRED Play/Pause Button Pause Video: Mònica Losada Servat Save this story Save Save this story Save The future can look pretty bleak. Climate catastrophes, new diseases, crumbling infrastructure, wealth inequality, cyber risks, geopolitical conflicts, and threats to democracy around the globe are just some of the things now shaking people’s confidence in a better tomorrow.
But human ingenuity is always a cause for hope, and every generation brings new thinkers, activists, entrepreneurs, and builders to work on the world’s biggest challenges.
This year, WIRED will celebrate its 30th anniversary by showcasing the people, platforms, technologies, and ideas that inspire us—and, we hope, will inspire you. Join us on December 5 in San Francisco for a thought-provoking program featuring some of the most influential people in tech, business, science, entertainment, and beyond as we explore technology’s impact on our past, present, and future—and dig into solutions and our optimistic vision for the next 30 years.
LiveWIRED is a one-day, in-person event at The Midway in San Francisco. It will be a mix of speakers, panels, demonstrations, and experiences designed to get you thinking about how we can collectively tackle climate change and what you can do to contribute.
LiveWIRED is a free event, but space is limited.
Apply to attend here , where you'll also find updates on programming announcements and information on our guest speakers, panels, and activations, as well as information on the venue and what to expect when you arrive.
Steven Amato , founder and CEO, Contend Jade Raymond , president and founder, Haven Studios Jaron Lanier , scientist, writer, musician; prime unifying scientist of Microsoft Sir Tim Berners-Lee , inventor of the Web; CTO and cofounder, Inrupt John Bruce , CEO and cofounder, Inrupt Stephen Curry , CEO, 30 Ink Suresh Singh , secretary-chairman, 30 Ink Blitz Bazawule , musician, author, artist, filmmaker Rodrigo Prieto , cinematographer, Barbie and Killers of the Flower Moon Karen Nyberg , retired NASA astronaut, engineer, and textile artist Tierra Whack , artist and musician Tiffany Williams , COO, 30 Ink Chris Helfrich , CEO, Eat. Learn. Play. Foundation Erick Peyton , cofounder, co-CEO, and chief creative officer, Unanimous Media Jennifer Doudna , biochemist and Nobel Prize–winning coinventor of Crispr technology Jared Isaacman , CEO, Shift4 (NYSE:FOUR); commander, Inspiration4 and Polaris Dawn Aparna Nancherla , comedian and writer Faye Wattleton , cofounder and EVP, EeroQ Rachel Kowert , research director, Take This Fei-Fei Li , Sequoia Professor in the Computer Science Department at Stanford University; codirector of Stanford's Human-Centered AI Institute Annalee Newitz , journalist, author, and podcaster Moriba Jah , cofounder and chief scientist at Privateer Space and Moriba Jah Universal Yudhanjaya Wijeratne , author Meredith Whittaker , president, Signal Foundation Catie Cuan , entrepreneur, engineer, and artist Reid Hoffman , cofounder, LinkedIn; partner, Greylock John Hanke , founder and CEO, Niantic Charlie Jane Anders , writer and editor Joe Atkinson , vice chair, chief products and technology officer, PwC Jon Gieselman , president, Expedia Brands, Expedia Group Matthew Butterick, artist and lawyer Apply to Attend LiveWIRED Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Business Who Is Mira Murati, OpenAI’s New Interim CEO? Steven Levy Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott You Might Also Like … 📩 Get the long view on tech with Steven Levy's Plaintext newsletter Watch this guy work, and you’ll finally understand the TikTok era How Telegram became a terrifying weapon in the Israel-Hamas War Inside Elon Musk’s first election crisis —a day after he “freed” the bird The ultra-efficient farm of the future is in the sky The best pickleball paddles for beginners and pros 🌲 Our Gear team has branched out with a new guide to the best sleeping pads and fresh picks for the best coolers and binoculars Topics WIRED30 events Amit Katwala Khari Johnson Will Knight Kari McMahon Andy Greenberg David Gilbert Joel Khalili Joel Khalili Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
