Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? OLED TV Black Friday deals: LG, Samsung, and Sony By Noah McGraw Close Whether you’re a seasoned home cinema enthusiast or you’re just building a high-end living room or basement theater for the first time, then an OLED TV is what you should be looking for. OLED, short for organic light-emitting diode, is a panel technology that forgoes traditional LED backlighting in favor of self-lit pixels that deliver superb color accuracy and unrivaled contrast. OLED TVs are considerably more expensive than their LED and QLED counterparts, however, so it’s worth the time to hunt down a good discount. The best Black Friday deals are here to help you do just that, and so are we. Below, we’ve scooped up all the best OLED TV Black Friday deals available this week from top brands including LG, Samsung, and Sony.
Top 5 OLED TV Black Friday Deals More OLED TV Black Friday Deals Top 5 OLED TV Black Friday Deals LG 48-inch A2 OLED 4K WebOS TV — $570, was $1,300 LG Most OLED TVs that are larger than 50 inches will set you back north of a grand, but if your size needs are a bit more modest, then this 48-inch LG A2 OLED television is by far one of the best Black Friday TV deals available now. LG makes a wide range of OLED TVs (it’s the brand that pioneered OLED panel technology, after all), with the A2 series being aimed at budget-conscious buyers. Despite its reasonable price, the LG A2 OLED TV has some impressive features apart from its gorgeous OLED screen. It has Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa built right in, and it offers high dynamic range support for Dolby Vision , HDR10, and HLG.
 The WebOS software interface puts all of the top streaming apps at your fingertips and also features a built-in Game Optimizer that automatically adjusts the TV’s settings for gaming.
Sony 55-inch Bravia XR A80J OLED 4K Google TV — $1,000, was $1,900 Image used with permission by copyright holder If you want an OLED television and have a grand to spend, then OLED TV Black Friday deals don’t get much better than the Sony A80J.
 In our review, we stated that this OLED TV is one of the best ever made, noting its nearly perfect picture quality, excellent built-in speakers (which are often lacking, even on many good TVs), and smooth interface. We also found the included three-way flexible stand to be a nice touch. The OLED panel has a smooth 120Hz refresh rate as well as support for Dolby Vision , HDR10, and Hybrid Long-Gamma HDR TV formats, letting you get the most out of today’s entertainment, although the Bravia XR A80J TV’s processor can also upscale legacy content to make it suitable for viewing on a modern 4K OLED display. Four HDMI inputs (two of which are HDMI 2.1 ) also give you plenty of hookups for media players, a gaming console, and other input devices.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
LG 65-inch B2 OLED 4K WebOS TV — $1,300, was $1,900 LG Among LG’s mid-range OLED TV offerings sits the B2 series. The 65-inch LG B2 OLED 4K TV is the ideal size for living rooms and other larger common areas, and it boasts a bevy of great features that make it a great television for everything from streaming to gaming. LG’s WebOS interface gives you easy access to all of your streaming apps and content libraries, while Dolby Vision HDR and Filmmaker Mode make sure that your shows and movies look like the directors intended them to. The OS also features Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa built in, letting you control everything using your voice via the included Magic Remote. For gaming, the LG B2 OLED TV has two HDMI 2.1 ports, a 120Hz variable refresh rate, an automatic Game Optimizer mode, and both Nvidia G-Sync and AMD FreeSync for smooth gameplay.
Samsung 65-inch S95B OLED 4K Tizen TV — $1,800, was $2,300 Riley Young/Digital Trends Samsung is best known for its QLED TVs, a technology it pioneered. In recent years, however, the Korean tech titan has thrown its hat into the OLED TV ring, giving Sony and LG some extra competition. The new Samsung S95B OLED TV is one of the brand’s best efforts yet; although Samsung calls it OLED, the panel of this TV should be more accurately called QD-OLED, as it combines its gorgeous OLED panel with the quantum-dot overlay found in QLED TVs. This is a unique technology Samsung developed in a clear attempt to steal a chunk of LG’s pie, and it worked. The Samsung S95B puts out an absolutely stunning picture that combines the color and contrast of an OLED TV with the brightness and vibrancy of a QLED panel. On top of that, the Samsung S95B 4K OLED TV sports a 120Hz refresh rate, HDR10+ and HLG support, HDMI 2.1 ports, and built-in Alexa and Google Assistant.
 However, it does lack a few things such as Dolby Vision support and vertical sync technology, which are a couple of compromises to be aware of.
LG 65-inch G2 OLED Evo 4K WebOS TV — $2,200, was $2,800 Riley Young/Digital Trends Although LG faces stiff competition from brands like Sony and Samsung, it’s still arguably the leader of the OLED TV space, and the LG G2 OLED Evo TV is the cream of the crop. This 65-inch 4K WebOS television pretty much does it all, from delivering a gorgeous cinematic picture to handling next-gen gaming. LG’s α9 Gen5 AI Processor 4K , Dolby Vision IQ HDR , Dolby Atmos sound, and Filmmaker Mode let you enjoy a theatrical experience right at home, while four HDMI 2.1 ports, Nvidia G-Sync and AMD FreeSync, a 120Hz variable refresh rate, and automatic Game Optimizer work to deliver an immersive gaming experience as well.
Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa are also integrated into the WebOS software interface for hands-free voice control and easy integration into your smart home ecosystem, if you have one. The LG G2 television does it all and has a price tag that reflects that, but OLED TV Black Friday deals let you enjoy a very nice discount right now.
More OLED TV Black Friday Deals Live Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Audio / Video Black Friday TV Computing If you want to buy a Windows laptop but don't really want to spend the hundreds of dollars required to get something good, Chromebooks are the perfect alternative. Because ChromeOS is a much more lightweight operating system, it doesn't eat up as many resources as Windows does. That means that the same hardware under the hood can provide more functionality than it would on a Windows laptop, which helps bring the price down.
To pile on to that, there are some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will bring the price down even further. If you find that you need the full functionality of a laptop, check out our general Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals, or Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday MacBook deals, for PC and MacOS respectively.
Best HP Chromebook Black Friday Deals Computing As Black Friday quickly approaches and the whole month of November is treated as a sales event, now is the perfect time to pick up a laptop, especially if you missed out during Prime Day. Luckily, HP has some great early Black Friday deals you can take advantage of, and you might also consider Amazon Black Friday laptop deals; whether you want something for work or gaming, there are quite a few options. We've collected some of our favorite deals across the board, but it is always worth checking out these Dell Black Friday deals for alternatives. Everything on this list comes straight from HP, but it's worth checking out Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and Amazon Black Friday deals for more options.
Best HP Laptop Black Friday Deals HP has a lot of great budget-oriented laptops, so if you're looking for something that won't impact your wallet too much, going for one of these Black Friday laptop deals below is a good idea. That said, keep in mind that their lower-tier laptops tend to have a lot of similarities, with only slight changes in specifications here and there, so it might be worth looking at our laptop buying guide for some help. Even so, we've done our best to pick the deals that we find are the best when balancing costs with specifications.
Computing Lenovo is one of the best laptop brands, so you should never pass up a chance to enjoy savings when buying one of its devices -- whether it be Chromebooks, student laptops, office laptops, or gaming laptops. Fortunately, discounts are plenty with this year's Black Friday deals, so even if you're on a tight budget, you'll surely come across an offer that's perfect for you. There may not be enough time for you to go through all of the retailers' websites though, so to help you make your decision on what to buy, we've rounded up our favorite Black Friday laptop deals below. All of the deals below are currently through Lenovo's site, but you can find other good deals, even on Lenovo, in the Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and Amazon Black Friday deals.
Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals Lenovo laptops can be very affordable or expensive, depending on the performance that they provide. That means no matter your needs and how much you're willing to spend, there's a device that will be perfect for you. We're not sure how much time is remaining for you to be able to pocket these savings though, so you should check our laptop buying guide to figure out what you need from the Lenovo laptops that are on sale for Black Friday.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
