Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Black Friday TV deals: QLED, OLED, and Smart TVs By Lucas Coll Close Image used with permission by copyright holder If you missed out on yesterday’s Black Friday deals , don’t worry. There are still tons of Black Friday TV deals out there to get excited about! Whether you’re looking to upgrade your home theater setup to the latest OLED technology, or simply looking to add a cheap TV to your kitchen or bedroom, there’s an amazing deal for you. With so many choices out there, it can feel overwhelming, which is why we’re here to help. We’ve looked through all the best Black Friday TV deals and highlighted the very best of the bunch below. Read on while we take you through everything you need to know.
Top 5 Black Friday TV deals More Black Friday TV deals Top 5 Black Friday TV deals Insignia 50-inch F30 Series 4K Fire TV — $250, was $400 Image used with permission by copyright holder Insignia is Best Buy’s in-house TV brand and another maker of high-value Fire TVs. The Insignia F30 Series 4K TV is a fine option for anyone looking for a cheap 50-inch TV; at this size, it’d work just fine as a smaller living room television or a larger bedroom TV, depending on what you need it for. Like the Toshiba, the Insignia 4K TV runs on the Fire TV OS to make streaming easy, but this one has a proper 4K resolution so you can enjoy your shows and movies at up to an Ultra HD resolution. It also has HDR10 support, allowing you to take advantage of the increased color and contrast range of HDR TV content. And, like many Fire TVs, it comes with Amazon’s Alexa voice AI assistant built right in.
Hisense 65-inch A6 Series 4K Google TV — $370, was $420 Hisense Moving up in size a bit to 65 inches, this Hisense A6 Series Google TV is a great pick for a living room. If you’re still figuring out what size TV you should buy , know that 65-inch televisions are quickly becoming the norm for living rooms and similar “movie room” spaces, and the Hisense A6 Series proves you don’t have to spend a lot to get there. This updated 2022 model features the Google TV streaming interface and supports Dolby Vision and HDR10, so you’re covered with the latest high dynamic range standards.
Dolby Vision Game and Game Mode Plus also make this a solid cheap TV for gaming, and with the included voice remote, you can enjoy hands-free control as this Google TV comes with Google Assistant built in.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
TCL 65-inch 5-Series QLED 4K Google TV — $500, was $600 TCL If you can stretch your budget a bit, then it’s time to consider getting a QLED TV.
 These televisions feature a quantum-dot layer laid over the LED panel that amplifies color and light, creating a more vibrant and brighter picture that’s better for daytime viewing (if you’ve got a living room where a lot of sunlight comes in, take note). TCL is a value leader in the QLED space, and this 65-inch 5-Series 4K Google TV is a very affordable option. It features local dimming for improved contrast, the HDR Pro Pack that supports all the top high dynamic range formats including Dolby Vision , an Auto Game Mode, and hands-free control with built-in Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant and the included voice remote. It’s the 2021 model, but if you don’t need all the latest bells and whistles, this is one of the best Black Friday TV deals on a quantum-dot panel.
Samsung 75-inch TU690T Series 4K Tizen TV — $580, was $850 Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung ranks high among the best TV brands , competing aggressively with other top names like Sony and LG. That’s not to say you have to pay a fortune to get a Samsung TV, even a big-screen one like this 75-inch number. The Samsung TU690T Series 4K Tizen TV is truly fit for those building a home cinema on a budget, with its 75-inch panel being what Samsung calls a PurColor Crystal Display powered by a Crystal Processor 4K.
 The TV also runs on Samsung’s Tizen smart software platform, offering support for HDR10+ (although not for Dolby Vision , unfortunately), upscaling for older non- 4K media, and built-in Alexa and Google Assistant.
LG 65-inch B2 Series OLED 4K WebOS TV — $1,300, was $1,900 LG If we’re being totally honest, serious home cinephiles shouldn’t be looking at anything other than an OLED TV today. This panel technology, pioneered by LG, uses self-lit pixels rather than traditional backlighting to create unrivaled color accuracy and nearly perfect contrast levels. They’re pricey, but less so than they were, and the LG B2 Series represents a more affordable alternative to some of the higher-end OLED TVs the brand makes. It doesn’t cut too many corners, though: The LG B2 OLED TV features a 120Hz refresh rate along with support for the latest HDR formats including Dolby Vision.
 Gamers will also appreciate features like HDMI 2.1 connectivity, variable refresh rate, Nvidia G-Sync and AMD FreeSync, and LG’s Auto Game Mode.
More Black Friday TV deals Live Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday AirPods Deals: Get Apple’s earbuds for $59 The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs Early Amazon Black Friday TV deals you can shop right now The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now Deals Black Friday Cheapest Prices TV Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
