Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews SteelSeries Arctis 7 wireless gaming headset review SteelSeries' Arctis 7 is the best gaming headset, and it works on all platforms By Brendan Hesse Close $149.99 Sleek, lightweight design Flexible, collapsible, crystal-clear mic Excellent sound quality DTS Headphone:X virtual surround Works with any gaming system Software and virtual 7.1 only available on PC Finding the best gaming headset is tough. Whether you need top-notch surround sound accuracy for first-person shooters, a great mic for team communication, or plush comfort for long gaming sessions, it’s not often that a headset will do everything you need it to. And good luck finding one you would actually want to wear out in public. Thankfully, as we discovered in our SteelSeries Arctis 7 review, this unassuming wireless headset changes all that.
Gone are the days of being forced to keep a rotation of multiple headsets around for your gaming system of choice. Thanks to an extremely comfortable and tasteful design, impressive customization software, versatile connectivity, and fantastic audio performance with scary-real DTS Headphone:X virtual surround, the Arctis 7 has put all other headsets in its class on notice that there’s a new king in town.
The best Xbox Series X headsets 3 Resident Evil games are getting free next-gen upgrades Razer launches the Kraken V3 X, a new $70 gaming headset Out of the box Aside from the colorful box, the packaging for the $150 Arctis 7 takes a minimalist approach. The included literature is short and sweet, written in symbols for universal access. Also included in the light package is a small compartment for the USB charging cable, USB dongle, and a 3.5mm cable.
The headset itself is similarly minimal, cast in elegant lines with muted colors. In fact, the Arctis 7 avoids all the cringe-worthy missteps that so many other gaming headsets employ, like toyish aesthetics, restrictive software, or limited connectivity. It’s simply built to look good and perform well, no matter how you connect.
Features and design Having the Arctis 7 in your hands makes a strong first impression. Let’s start from the top and work our way down.
The Arctis 7 makes a strong first impression thanks to mature styling and an intuitive design.
The headband is unlike any other we’ve encountered in the genre. The band is a static, single strip of brushed metal that doesn’t extend or widen (though the earcups do swivel). This might sound uncomfortable, and it would be, but this isn’t what rests on your head. Instead, an elastic “ski goggle strap” attaches around the headband to rest on your head. This novel one-size-fits-all design is rather ingenious; it’s comfortable and eliminates points of pressure since the weight is evenly and gently distributed.
For those who want to inject a bit of flair or personality, SteelSeries sells a variety of band designs that can be easily swapped out. Similarly, the “AirWeave” earcup padding is removable, and different fabrics are available including leather and velour. As we’ll discuss further below, customization is a defining trait of the Arctis 7. However, we love the light-mesh AirWeave, and while we’re happy SteelSeries is committed to versatile design here, we think most people will also be just fine with the standard padding.
The retractable mic is extremely flexible and can be easily collapsed into the left earcup. This essentially transforms the headset into a pair of regular wireless headphones , and the minimalist look means they’ll be inconspicuous when wearing them in public – a design trait we wish more headsets would follow. Sure, you can technically wear a headset like the Razer ManO’War 7.1 out in public, but not without looking like an air traffic controller.
The Arctis 7 is simple, clean, and unassuming, right down to the onboard controls. Power, mic mute, mic mix, and volume keys on the underside of the earcups are easy to access, but don’t stand out visually. This aesthetic complements the comfort and flexibility nicely, making for what may just be our favorite gaming-headset design.
Setup The Arctis 7 will work on whatever system you play on. For wired connection, you can connect directly to your device’s 3.5mm audio jack with the included cable — on PS4 and Xbox One, these are located on the controllers, while on Switch, you’ll need to be playing in handheld mode to use the system’s 3.5mm jack. PS4 and PC users can also connect the 3.5mm cable to the included USB dongle. To connect wirelessly, you’ll simply need to connect the dongle to your PC or PS4, and turn on the headset.
The SteelSeries Engine 3 software for PC can be downloaded by following the included link in the user manual. You’ll need to update your device’s firmware, but the software takes care of virtually all of this itself. Simply click on the necessary boxes when prompted, and wait for the installation to complete.
Software The SteelSeries Engine 3 software is the most expansive and flexible set of tools we’ve seen for a PC headset yet. The software works as a hub for all SteelSeries products, including mice, keyboards, headsets, etc. It requires creating an account and driver installation/updates before the full set of features is available, but the extra steps are worth it. Once you’ve created an account and registered your products, you can create individual profiles for each that will be saved to your account and follow you from machine to machine. It’s important to note the software only works for PC gaming, and won’t transfer to consoles.
With SteelSeries Headsets, you can toggle between multiple EQ and 7.1 surround sound presets, as well as create your own presets that will be saved online and can be carried over to other PCs simply by downloading the software and signing in.
One feature we’re surprised to see is the ability to add compression to the mix. There are four levels of compression – off, low, medium, and high — which can make quite a bit of difference for keeping mic chat audible when gaming effects are at their most bombastic. You can also adjust the mix between voice chat and game audio manually, as well as mic volume and side tone, i.e. ambient noise in the room.
The best part? All of this can be tweaked and tested live. This eliminates any guesswork while adjusting your playback and mic settings.
Not only is SteelSeries’ Engine 3 software remarkable for the customization it gives users, it’s also ridiculously simple to use, especially considering how much it lets you do. Simply put, we love the SteelSeries Engine 3 software, as it adds a whole new dimension to the performance of the headset.
Performance Armed with 40mm drivers, the sound output on the Arctis 7 headset rivals even the most powerful headsets like the super-loud Sennheiser GSP 350.
 The Arctis 7 runs into some distortion at the very loudest moments, but you’re not likely to need volume at that level anyway, thanks to how clear and well-mixed the sound is. As noted above, the Arctis 7’s sound can be customized and tweaked for each listener’s needs with ease., but the default stereo mix is robust and clear, even straight out of the box.
The Arctis 7 is one of the best-sounding gaming headsets at the $150 price point, period.
Bass is slightly tame when compared to powerful headsets like Razer’s ManO’War 7.1, but that’s not necessarily a bad thing in this case. Using the SteelSeries Engine 3 software to boost bass or diminish other frequencies makes that essentially a moot point — as long as you’re using a PC, of course.
For PC gaming, the Arctis 7 also supports DTS Headphone:X 7.1 surround, impressive virtual software that provides excellent spatial positioning without diminishing from the richness found in stereo. There are also virtual surround presets for gaming, music, and movies that all appropriately cover their respective media.
The mic is also particularly worthy of mention. The Arctis line uses SteelSeries’ proprietary ClearCast mic technology for voice capture, with a pickup pattern that is smaller and centralized around the mouth. The mic placement requires more precision than many other mics, but this isn’t an issue thanks to the highly flexible mic arm. The upshot is that there is little-to-no ambient pickup in most listening environments. This is bolstered by noise canceling that doesn’t require software or hardware toggling, which helps result in highly accurate voice capture.
Normally, we tend to recommend against gaming headsets for those wanting to record professional-quality audio when streaming, podcasting, or uploading gameplay to YouTube, but we’re less concerned about that with the Arctis 7. A dedicated mic is still preferable in these instances, but if you had to record audio with the Arctis 7 (or really any of the Arctis models), the results will be better than you would get from most other headsets.
While more and more headsets are compatible with multiple platforms, we love the fact that the Arctis 7 works with just about everything in your gaming arsenal right out of the box, with no need to buy accessories. We do wish we could use the 7.1 virtual surround with the PS4, like you can with the Cloud Revolver S.
When it comes to wireless connection, the range and battery life are both more than adequate for our gaming needs. SteelSeries claims the Arctis 7 is effective up to 12 meters, and sitting across the living room to play on both PC and PS4 resulted in zero lag. The battery life is rated at 15 hours, and that also held up in our testing — we never had to charge the headset in the middle of a game, even after a full day of playing. Plus, the headset features an auto-shutdown mode when no media is being played that will prevent unnecessary battery drain.
Warranty information SteelSeries offers a 1-year limited warranty on parts and labor for the Arctis 7 that covers manufacturing defects. SteelSeries also offers a full 30-day money back guarantee on products bought directly through its online store.
Our Take This Arctic 7 is by far the best choice for wireless PC headsets, and one of the best overall gaming headsets, period. While using it on a console narrows its functionality, it still outperforms most console headsets, while its comfort, style, and versatile connectivity offer plenty more reasons to fall in love with it.
Is there a better alternative? While we’re focusing on the Arctis 7 here, the SteelSeries’ Arctis 3 and Arctis 5 are also worthy of consideration. There are some differences in terms of aesthetics and design, but performance-wise, they’re basically identical, with only minor variations in mic quality and surround sound format. The Arctis 3 features 7.1 surround sound and comes in both wired and Bluetooth versions, while the Arctis 5 supports DTS Headphone:X surround but is solely a wired headset.
The wired version of the Arctis 3 is the cheapest at $80 and has the most color options, but will require some extra registration to use the SteelSeries Engine 3 software and only supports 3.5mm connection. The Bluetooth version costs $130, but is also the first Bluetooth headset to be fully compatible with the Nintendo Switch’s voice chat app.
Finally, the $100 Arctis 5 seems to have the best mic performance of the trio by a hair, and feature a customizable, minimalist RGB LED ring on the earcups.
For an alternative outside the Arctis Line, you might also check out the Cloud Revolver mentioned above, which allows for virtual surround sound with a PS4.
But when it comes to wireless PC gaming headsets, the Arctis 7 is the best choice, bar none.
How long will it last? You can expect to have driver updates to the SteelSeries Engine 3 software to maintain compatibility and performance on PC. The comfort, durability, and simplistic design should also give the Arctis 7 some real staying power.
Should you buy it? This is one of the easiest headset recommendations we’ve ever made. The Arctis 7 is the best PC headset currently available, and one of our favorite options for gaming overall.
Editors' Recommendations The Xbox Series X games with the best graphics Gran Turismo 7: Tips and tricks to race like a pro SteelSeries Rival 5 review: A feature-rich gaming mouse without the high cost The best gaming headsets for 2022 Epic Games exec says PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X games will look like movies Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Computing Entry-level peripherals need RGB love, too. That's the ethos behind SteelSeries' new range of budget PC gaming accessories. With fancy lighting effects, great sensors, and powerful switches, the SteelSeries Rival 3, Apex 3, and Apex 5 are designed to bring the best benefits of high-end PC peripherals with an affordable price tag.
“There are so many gamers out there that are stuck using boring, traditional office peripherals for gaming,” SteelSeries CEO Ehtisham Rabbani, said in the launch release for these new devices. And no one would mistake the new SteelSeries peripherals for components intended for office use. That is unless they were the lighting rig.
Computing Honey, I shrank the Razer Kraken. We jest, but that's exactly what Razer has done with the new Razer Kraken X wired gaming headset. Inheriting everything that made its big brother great, the new Kraken X sheds a whole lot of weight, shaves the price and still manages to include 7.1 surround sound capability.
In designing the Kraken X, Razer's goal was to create a light and comfortable wired headset that can be worn all day long. It weighs 250grams or 0.55 lbs which is laughably light for a gaming headset. Razer has still managed to outfit the Kraken X with soft memory foam ear cushions with glasses friendly channels and an adjustable headband.
News SteelSeries today announced the first ever mechanical keyboard with fully adjustable actuation switches; the Apex Pro and Apex Pro TKL. The new gaming keyboards can automatically change key sensitivity depending on the app in use — switching from typing documents to playing a first-person shooter.
The all new Apex Pro and Apex Pro Ten Keyless (TKL) mechanical keyboards are outfitted with SteelSeries patented OmniPoint Switches. These unique switches have magnetic sensors that allow users to choose the sensitivity of their keys. The keys can be adjusted between longer actuation point of 3.6mm for accuracy all the way to 0.4mm for faster speed.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
