Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews SteelSeries Arctis Pro review: The best gaming headset Audiophile sound meets gaming performance in the best-in-class Arctis Pro By Brendan Hesse Close $179.99 Multiple versions, each with a wide range of supported platforms Doesn’t require extra software or drivers Hi-res audio performance Very comfortable Sleek, minimalist design Setup is a bit of hassle While everyone wants their video games to sound great, the idea of a Hi-Fi gaming headset is rather novel. Sure, there are likely a handful of audiophiles out there who enjoy an occasional evening indulging in multiplayer raids in Destiny 2 or going for the Chicken Dinner in Playerunknown’s Battlegrounds , and there have been several headsets in the past aimed at this crowd, but frankly, they never quite hit the mark for us.
Out of the Box Design Setup Hi-Res performance 3.5mm connections Mic and voice chat Our take Enter SteelSeries’ newest evolution of its Arctis headset line, the Arctis Pro. Armed with premium drivers, powerful peripherals, and building upon the already best-in-class design of the Arctis 7 , the Arctis Pro has improved upon the greatness of its predecessors to become the best gaming headset available.
One of the year’s best reviewed games is coming to Xbox Game Pass 10 best gaming monitors of 2023: tested and reviewed The best games on Xbox Game Pass for right now (September 2023) Out of the Box The Arctis Pro comes in three variations: a $250 wired version with GameDAC included, a $330 wireless Bluetooth version, and a scaled back $180 wired, headset-only version. Though there are three distinct models, SteelSeries keeps the packaging and presentation essentially identical. Each come in a thick carboard box, nestled in molded plastic along with any included peripherals. All necessary cables are included, and the wireless version comes toting two rechargeable battery packs.
Design It would be easy to mistake the Arctis Pro headset for Arctis 7 – they look virtually identical — the only significant difference is a new matte black finish that replaces the dark matte grey found on previous Arctis headsets. The Pro uses the same one-size-fits-all, auto-fitting “ski goggle” strap around a thin-but-sturdy metal headband and soft, smooth, breathable ear padding as the Arctis 7. Given its light weight, the goggle strap allows the headset to rest gently on your head, making it incredibly comfortable to wear, and gives the Pro a much more minimalist profile than most other gaming headsets.
On-ear controls include a mute and volume for the collapsible microphone living on the left earcup. It’s worth pointing out, too, that the mic retracts quickly and smoothly into the cup for easy hiding.
There are only minimal design variations between the wired and wireless versions of the Arctis Pro. The wired features thin, programmable LED rings on the earcups for custom color choices, while the wireless version has a magnetic plate on the right earcup that hides the rechargeable battery pack along with extra on-ear Bluetooth controls. Otherwise, the two headsets feel the same, and are equally comfortable.
Setup Setting up the Arctis Pro will be slightly different depending on which version you buy, as different components are included with each. The more expensive of the two wired versions ships with the GameDAC peripheral, while the wireless model includes a Bluetooth breakout box.
The Bluetooth box is plain and black with an LED screen, dial, and a single button for control. There’s also a slot on the side for charging the wireless version’s reusable batteries.
The “ski goggle strap” design makes it incredibly comfortable to wear.
Conversely, the GameDAC is a rounded, pill-shaped device, but features the same LED screen and dial/button control scheme. Both connect to PC via USB, and the PS4 through digital optical audio cable.
These devices eliminate the need for SteelSeries’ Steel Engine 3 software to drive the surround sound, mic controls, or EQ and mix settings like on the company’s previous headsets, instead handling all these functions themselves. You can even customize the EQ yourself using the GameDAC or Bluetooth box and save your own presets.
This is excellent news for PS4 users especially, since you’ll be able to get the full functionality out of the headset. Previously, the Arctis line’s functionality was hamstrung on PS4 by software requirements you could only access on PC. Those roadblocks are lifted entirely with the Pro.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends It’s worth noting, though, that these extra elements make setup more involved than most headsets. It’s also messier, especially the wired version with the GameDAC. Depending on your setup, you could have three or four extra cables running across your desk, which can be annoying if you don’t employ some clever cable management. The Wireless version, thankfully, has a cleaner setup, requiring only two cords — either two USB on PC, or a USB and a digital optical cable on PS4.
The somewhat messy setup is our only complaint about the Arctis Pro and comes from the fac that most other headsets are far simpler, usually requiring a single wire or USB dongle at most. While you can circumvent this entirely by simply purchasing the headset-only version of the Pro, the functionality and sound quality the GameDAC and wireless breakout box bring to the experience balance out any setup annoyances.
Hi-Res performance The Arctis Pro is the best sounding headset we’ve ever used. Even with a simple wired USB or 3.5mm cable connection, the Pro is a noticeable step up from the Arctis 7 (our previous favorite) in terms of overall sound quality. But when paired with either the GameDAC or Hi-Res wireless box, the entire listening experience is elevated to levels that are simultaneously ethereal and explosive.
The Arctis Pro is the best sounding headset we’ve ever used.
The wired GameDAC version boasts Hi-Res 24-bit sound, while the wireless version delivers lossless audio over Bluetooth connection. Thanks to these Hi-Res-capable components, music has more texture and detail, and soft sound effects like footsteps are more clearly audible — something that should appeal to the tens of millions of Fortnight Battle Royal and Playerunknown’s Battlegrounds players out there.
In fact, Fortnight was among the numerous games we tested on PC, along with Sea of Thieves , Warframe , and Overwatch , all of which gave a revealing indication of how the headset performs with multiplayer titles. Voice chat came in loud and clear, and the ability to adjust the mic-to-game mix on the fly was very helpful.
It’s worth noting that connecting the Arctis Pro directly to a PC via USB means you’ll be able to use virtually all those features through the Steelengine 3 software, even without the GameDAC or Bluetooth box, though you’ll be missing out on the Hi-Res audio (more on that below).
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends For testing on PlayStation 4 we took a more single-player approach, putting time into Monster Hunter World , Doom , and NieR: Automata.
 Each of these titles feature epic soundtracks and gameplay that centers heavily around sound design or audio cues, and all of them benefitted from the Arctis Pro’s performance.
Monster Hunter World was an especially appreciable upgrade. The ambience of the game’s dense wilderness was boosted and, enabling the DTS virtual surround made the world feel more alive, with the sounds of distant wildlife accurately and clearly positioned.
A particularly memorable example was heading off to the Coral Highlands — a striking locale with flora, fauna, and rock formations that mirrors an underwater scene. The subtle whines and chirps of the tiny critters that inhabit the area were easily heard, and at higher elevations, gusts of wind added to the sense of altitude.
After tracking our particular mark — a giant, angry wyvern known as the Pink Rathian — it’s menacing, ear-splitting roar filled the headphones , but was detailed enough that you could hear the layers of the effect, which showed off the work that the sound team put into the game noticeably better than we’ve heard before, even on the Arctis 7. And when the bombastic score kicks in once you’ve found your prey, the Arctis Pro soars into action, reproducing instrumentation with tight transients and spatial definition.
For both platforms, we found the default EQ mix to be good, but we preferred the “smiley” EQ preset on the GameDAC and the “immersion” EQ on the wireless box, especially for single player games as both made the in-game atmosphere sound fuller. Each device includes several other presets, such as options geared toward voice chat or specific game genres.
3.5mm connections For those instances where you can’t use the DAC or wireless box (or if you’ve purchased a version without these components), you can use the included 3.5mm adapter or USB cable. The 3.5mm adapter is used to connect to smartphones, tablets, the Nintendo Switch, or even directly into PS4 or an Xbox One controllers, speakers, TVs/ monitors — really any 3.5mm jack within reach.
Even playing with the default stereo mix over 3.5mm connection, the Arctis Pro still sounds better than just about any other headset currently available.
We gave this connection type a go on all the aforementioned titles to compare the performance, as well as by playing Hearthstone on mobile, and both Splatoon 2 and The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild on the Nintendo Switch.
 We noticed a barely-perceptible step down in terms of overall detail, and a smidge of muddiness from the low end — not to mention the loss of DTS virtual surround sound — but the performance was still superb. Even playing with the default stereo mix over 3.5mm connection, the Arctis Pro still sounds better than just about any other headset currently available.
Mic and voice chat Any worthy headset needs a great mic, and unsurprisingly, the Arctis Pro’s Clearcast mic shines.
Sea of Thieves was our primary litmus test here, since gameplay hinges on proper, clear communication with your team while sailing your galleon. Our teammates all commented on the clarity of our voice, which they reported was clear even when using the in-game proximity chat. A few Audacity test recordings proved that they weren’t lying — the sound is crisp and detailed. It still sounds like a headset mic, but a damn good one, so it could feasibly work for streaming if you don’t have a freestanding mic in your broadcasting or recording setup.
Our take The Arctis Pro solves the few compatibility shortcomings the previous Arctis headsets faced and boosts the quality up across the board. It’s become our new top pick for gaming headsets, regardless of system.
Is there a better alternative? The Cloud Revolvers S uses a USB dongle that works similarly to the GameDAC and wireless breakout box, in that it circumvents software requirements to enable surround sound and EQ features for PS4 users. It’s not going to reach the heights of the Arctis Pro, but it’s worth consideration since it’s much less expensive.
On the other hand, while we still recommend the $180 headset-only Arctis Pro package if all you need is a headset using a single 3.5mm or USB connection, there is also, of course, the previous entries in the Arctis line, the Arctis 3, 5, and 7. We’ve already mentioned them numerous times throughout this review, but with good reason, as they’re not that far removed from the Arctis Pro in terms of quality or design and are all more affordable. The Arctis 3 even has an affordable Bluetooth option, as well.
Finally, while the Arctis Pro can be connected to the Xbox One via 3.5mm and still performs phenomenally, for Xbox One owners discouraged by the lack of virtual surround and EQ manipulation available on the base version of the Arctis Pro, we recommend the Astro A50 as a wireless alternative, and the Astro A40 TR for wired.
How long will it last? In terms of durability, it will take quite a bit of effort to damage or break the Arctis Pro or its peripherals. As for the tech’s longevity, we expect the Arctis Pro’s reign atop the Best Gaming Headphones throne to last a while, but we’re also confident it will remain an excellent and viable option years down the road thanks to its high performance.
Should you buy it? Yes. Unless you fall into one of the few exceptions we discussed in the alternatives section above, the Arctis Pro is the best headset available.
Editors' Recommendations All upcoming Xbox Series X games: 2023, 2024 and beyond The best third-party video game controller is about to get even better The best Xbox Series X games for 2023 The best RPGs for Xbox Series X Best gaming headset deals: Turtle Beach, Razer, JBL and more Headphone Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Gaming Xbox Game Pass is a fantastic way to play tons of games for cheap. It's also the only way you'll get to play online multiplayer on your Xbox Series X or Series S. It's fairly cheap and gets you access to a lot of content, but you can still find great Game Pass deals that will help you save some money. Below we've listed all the deals we could find. Right now that's just on the Game Pass Ultimate tier, but we've listed out the prices and benefits of all the tiers anyway, just in case you don't need to get the full subscription.
Xbox Game Pass Core -- $10 per month If you have Xbox Live Gold, your subscription is about to get folded into Microsoft's newer Game Pass system. Xbox Live Gold subscriptions are about to become Game Pass Core subscriptions. In many ways it's the same thing, and in some ways it's better. Game Pass Core is the cheapest tier of Game Pass, but it still lets you access important features, including online multiplayer. Game Pass Core is launching with access to 36 games off the bat, and you can get exclusive discounts on certain downloadable games. The switch from Xbox Live Gold to Game Pass Core will be automatic.
Xbox Game Pass Standard -- $11 per month Gaming Picking a console is a big decision. They're not cheap, so unless gaming is your passion, you probably don't want to spend the cash to grab all three of the major ones. That's why we've collected the best prices on every version of the three major consoles. Below you'll find Xbox Series S and X deals, PlayStation 5 deals, and Nintendo Switch deals (on all the various versions). We've listed the best prices at the major retailers, and any deals we could find among them. Once you've grabbed your console, check out the best video games deals to go along with them.
Xbox Series S deals -- starting at $280 The Xbox Series S is the less powerful but cheaper option out of the newest generation Xbox line. When comparing the Xbox Series S versus the Xbox Series X, the Series S takes a hit in all the component categories. That means it's not quite as fast. But if you're not hung up on getting the optimal performance out of your system, you'll actually notice very few differences. The two biggest ones are the Series S's inability to play in 8K, and its lack of a disc drive. Most people don't even have 8K TVs, so that shouldn't be an issue. If you're alright with downloading all of your games straight to the console's memory (and you have a separate DVD or Blu-Ray player), the Series S will work fine. It's quite a bit smaller anyway, and easier to fit on a shelf.
Gaming The Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S are much more readily in stock than they were back in November 2020 when they first launched. That also means there are more deals around so you can save big on your new console purchase. Much like PlayStation deals, it's worth shopping around to see how you could save on your precious gaming investment. That's why we've picked out some of the best Xbox Series X and Series S deals below. The deals include discounts on consoles as well as essential accessories. Take a look below to see how you could save.
Xbox Core Wireless Controller -- $57, was $65 Whichever Xbox you buy, you get a standard controller but how about having one that shows off some of your personality? Or one that means you can play games on the couch with your buddies or family. That's where the Xbox Core Wireless Controller is so useful. Available in many different colors, you get all the benefits of an ergonomic design with sculpted surfaces and refined geometry for enhanced comfort. Up to 40 hours of battery life is convenient while it connects via Xbox Wireless and Bluetooth so you can use it with your PC, phone or tablet too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
