Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 1More’s SonoFlow set a new benchmark for $100 wireless headphones By Ted Kritsonis Close $100.00 Great sound quality Very comfortable for long periods Ridiculous battery life Solid ANC performance Great app support Affordable price No wear sensors Wired mode disables extra features Editor’s note: our original review noted the lack of a custom EQ feature in the 1More Music companion app, but 1More has since added the feature, so we have updated the review to reflect this.
What’s in the box Design Setup and controls Sound quality Noise cancellation and passthrough Battery life Do you have to spend a lot to get really good sound in a pair of noise-canceling wireless headphones? No, you don’t, and 1More proves it with its latest pair, the SonoFlow.
For $100 — or less — you get a fair bit to work with for every dollar you spend on them.
Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more The best wireless headphones for 2023 from Bose, Sony, 1More and more Sennheiser’s new budget-friendly headphones get a very high-end feature That includes support for hi-res audio , plus battery life that crushes much of the competition. You can’t have it all for $100, but all told, 1More makes an intriguing case for spending less to feel like you’re getting more.
What’s in the box I always like it when more affordable over-ear headphones come with a nice protective case, and this one is well-thought-out, and that includes the stumps inside to line up the right and left earcups. There is a USB-C charging cable, along with a 2.5mm-to-3.5mm audio cable for wired playback, and a user guide to get things started out of the box.
Design Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends The SonoFlow aren’t about unique design treatments, though I liked a couple of the choices made here. One is the red color on the inner earcups — the only real color or flair coming from these cans. The other is how well they fold and fit in the case. It seems so simple, and yet putting corresponding letters in the case take all the guesswork out of how to lay the headphones inside. I would like to see more manufacturers consider doing that when there are stumps inside to anchor the headphones in place.
The headband and earcups are soft enough to allow for longer listening sessions.
Apart from that, much of what’s here is fine. Not just the neutral color and styling, but also the lightweight materials and button placement. The headband and earcups are soft enough to allow for longer listening sessions. The cups are standard as far as sizing goes, but I doubt you’ll feel they clamp hard or place any undue pressure on your ears or head. That’s how it was for me at least.
I can’t tell you for sure if these would stand up to runs or workouts because 1More says nothing about their durability. There is no IP protection , or at least nothing official I can tell you about, so my inclination under such circumstances is to err on the side of caution and steer clear of sweating all over headphones like these. Don’t get me wrong, you’ll be comfortable wearing them, but it’s just hard to tell what kind of punishment they can take.
Setup and controls Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends The SonoFlow pair fairly quickly, though without Fast Pair on Android or anything similar on iOS, you just have to go through the Bluetooth menu on your device instead. All the physical buttons are on the right side, with the power button facing forward, while the noise cancelation and volume buttons line up at the back. It’s also where the 2.5mm headphone jack sits. Only the USB-C charging port is on the left side.
The 1More mobile app is a critical piece of the puzzle because it not only offers a quick-start guide and FAQ section, but is also the means with which to update the firmware and access all of the sound features. The SonoFlow have active noise cancellation (ANC) and passthrough (transparency) modes, as well as a wide assortment of EQ presets for tweaking the sound.
Dig deeper and under Experimental Features you’ll find multipoint as the only current option, letting you connect to two devices simultaneously. There are no ways to customize the onboard controls, though the buttons do serve additional purposes. Hold volume up to repeat a track or volume down to skip one. The power button doubles as the play/pause and answer/hang-up button. Double-click it and your phone’s voice assistant chimes in. Press the noise cancellation button to cycle through ANC, passthrough, and off.
Ergonomically, I didn’t find the buttons too hard to deal with after a while, but I could see it being challenging if you’re used to different configurations on other headphones. For instance, if you prefer to have controls, touch-sensitive or otherwise, on the outer earcup, then muscle memory might take longer to kick in.
Notably absent are wear sensors to automatically play/pause music when putting on/removing the headphones. They keep playing when you take them off, which is a bit annoying when you’re used to sensors doing that for you.
Sound quality Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends The team at 1More plays up the support for Sony’s LDAC hi-res codec as a differentiator, and given the price, it’s not wrong to point it out. But that’s assuming you have a device that supports the codec, and that the audio content you’re listening to offers a bit rate high enough to be considered hi-res. While the SBC and AAC codecs are in the mix here, aptX Adaptive isn’t, omitting a codec that really serves Android devices well because it includes low latency, which is great for gaming and video playback.
As always, iPhone users can’t take advantage of LDAC, but iOS devices do a much better job with AAC than Android, so perhaps that’s an acceptable trade-off. You get 12 EQ presets plus the ability for you to set your own.
The SonoFlow’s 40mm drivers deliver quite a punch — with a sound that’s very competitive when compared to the $150 Anker Soundcore Space Q45 or $130 Sennheiser HD 450BT.
 The default EQ preset has a nice clarity to it. It doesn’t swing the lows too far and gives some space for the mids to come through. Playing around with the presets while switching from one genre to another, the sound stays consistently good, providing a nice balance that could easily rival headphones costing more.
I never got the impression I was listening to headphones that just use crowd-pleasing tuning and leave it there.
I also came away impressed with playback, both in hi-res and with ANC on. Even when turned off, it was good. I never got the impression I was listening to headphones that just use crowd-pleasing tuning and leave it there. These are more balanced than that, and I would suggest that’s true for most of the presets. To my ears, LDAC does make a difference over AAC, though only when the available content can provide more nuance to listen for. For instance, when listening to songs on Amazon Music HD , LDAC let me hear more detail, while tracks from Spotify didn’t seem to benefit much at all.
The onboard mics play their role in clearing up phone calls as well. Unless I was in a loud or crowded environment with sustained noise, callers never complained about how I came through audibly.
Bluetooth Multipoint serves a good purpose here, too, especially when it comes to listening to tunes on one device while taking a call on another. It’s not quite as seamless as other headphones or earbuds that do itm though. For instance, when calls came in, I would accept the call and there would be a noticeable delay when switching between devices.
Plugging in the audio cable to go wired disables the other features and silences the app, so while convenient, it doesn’t give you access to other features the way the Treblab Z7 Pro do, for instance. Those cans let you go wired and also tap into noise cancellation.
Noise cancellation and passthrough ANC performs admirably at flushing out much of the low-frequency noises you come across. It won’t match what the likes of the Sony WH-1000XM4 or XM5 can stamp out, but for a fraction of the price, the SonoFlow come closer than you’d expect. High-pitched sounds will squeak through, but even then, not in a way that’s grating or frustrating. More importantly, they do a good job of drowning out voices and noise around the house.
When it comes to wanting to listen to ambient sounds, passthrough is good at making that work. The folks at 1More talk up the microphones inside the SonoFlow, and they do a fine job piping in the background. I had no problem having a quick conversation or hearing vehicle traffic while walking down the street with these on.
Battery life Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends Here’s where the SonoFlow truly impress. At up to 50 hours of battery life with ANC on (70 if you leave it off), you could literally listen to them for days and not have to charge them back up. Volume levels will determine the real number, but I easily reached a cumulative 48 hours at 60% volume. That’s really good by any measure for any pair of over-ears.
A quick five-minute charge is enough to deliver five hours of playback, which is mostly true if you stick to reasonable volume levels. In a pinch, that’s a lifesaver and long enough to cover most flights, too.
The longevity, at least when referring to battery life, is a big part of the value proposition in making the SonoFlow a good buy at $100. They will probably cost less along the way, given the company’s penchant for sales and routine price drops. Considering how good they sound, how comfortable they feel, and how long they last, it feels like you’re getting more than your money’s worth.
Assuming 1More takes its usual approach and updates the app to add extra features and customizations for the SonoFlow, which only builds on what is a really good foundation here.
Editors' Recommendations Best cheap headphones and earbuds 2023: Jabra, 1More, and others The best noise-canceling headphones of 2023: Bose, Sony, and more Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity 1More gets into the open-ear earbuds race with the Fit S50 and S30 1More’s new wired earbuds pack five drivers and planar tech for $170 Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Finding the best wireless earbuds for you can be tricky business. There are dozens of brands and models out there, and you've got specific needs. To get to the crux of the issue, you need to ask yourself a few things: First, you need to prioritize your primary uses for them — these could be listening to music, commuting, working out, long flights, video calling, or multitasking at work. This will help you determine whether you should put features like active noise canceling (ANC) and transparency mode above or below things like sound quality, battery life, comfort, and Bluetooth multipoint connectivity. Once you have a clear idea of what you want, you can then take into account your budget and slot in the pairs that fit the bill.
That's where this list of the best wireless earbuds comes in. We test a boatload of wireless earbuds. And the ones that really stand out from the crowd in terms of value, performance, and features are assembled right here.
Audio / Video Anker's Soundcore division has got a new set of wireless earbuds. And while the name may sound familiar -- they're called the Liberty 4 NC -- their price is a nice surprise: just $100. That buys you a set of hi-res-capable wireless earbuds that Anker claims have really impressive active noise cancellation (ANC) and battery life.
Anker calls it "Adaptive ANC 2.0" a system that uses two mics -- one inside your ear and one on the outside of the earbuds -- to adapt ANC performance instantly in any environment. The company must be confident that the system works well; it claims it blocks out up to 98.5% of external noise. Not even the superb Apple AirPods Pro 2 claim that kind of performance.
Audio / Video Skullcandy's latest wireless earbuds are packed with features, and in typical Skullcandy fashion, they're priced much lower than the competition. The new Skullcandy Rail ($80) and Rail ANC ($100) look very similar to Apple's AirPods Pro 2, and in the case of the Rail ANC, they possess many of the same features. Both models are available on Skullcandy.com starting June 13.
Each Rail model uses the same shape and silicone eartips to seal your ear canal, with touch controls on both earbuds, however, the Rail ANC use transparent plastic for the inside half of the earbud, and they have an extra set of microphones. Here's what you can expect from each Rail version.
Skullcandy Rail Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
