Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Adidas RPT-01 Sport headphones review: Functional fitness By Nick Woodard Close $169.00 40 hours of battery life IPX4 waterproof rating Durable build Easy-to-use controls Contradictory setup instructions Tight fit Narrow audio range Adidas’ $169 RPT-01 Sport on-ear headphones are different from the competition in several ways, from their functionality to the fabric they’re wrapped in. Sometimes those differences help, and sometimes they hurt. It comes down to who’s wearing them. Athletes may love what these fitness-minded headphones have to offer, but the casual listener may not be as receptive.
Out of the box Design Features Audio quality Our take Out of the box The headphones come carefully packaged in a black Adidas box, but other than a USB-C charging cable and the standard manufacturer documentation, there’s nothing else included. The RPT-01 headphones do not come with a carrying case or a carrying pouch, which is disappointing.
Nick Woodard/Digital Trends Setup was a little quirky. The quick-start guide instructs you to hold the “control jog” button (the one on the right earcup — and, yes, that is the official name Adidas decided to use for it) for 2 seconds to turn the headphones on and put them in pairing mode. For the life of me, I couldn’t get these headphones into pairing mode – at least not initially.
The best kids headphones of 2023: for fun, safety, and more The best wireless headphones for 2023 from Bose, Sony, 1More and more Adidas gives its wireless on-ear workout headphones a solar-powered boost After downloading the Adidas headphones app, I was met with slightly altered pairing instructions. The app tells you to hold the button for 4 seconds, not 2, to enable Bluetooth pairing. It’s a fraction of a difference, but apparently an important one.
The RPT-01 has Bluetooth 5 tech built-in, and under normal circumstances, the connection was solid. Sadly, the range of connection was average at best. During a jog with my fiancée, she wore the headphones, which were connected to my phone that I carried in a fanny pack.
With most earbuds I’ve tested, she can leave me in the dust and still keep a solid connection. With these, she would get about 15 to 20 feet away before encountering connectivity issues. That’s surprising, as we were outside with no obstacles between us.
Design Design is what makes these cans stand out. They don’t use a plastic or silicone material for their outer cup or band, like you would expect. Instead, the headphones are covered in a mesh fabric, with the exception of the inner band. The fabric isn’t the softest material out there, and it doesn’t make for the most aesthetically pleasing look.
Nick Woodard/Digital Trends It is, however, well-suited to the RPT-01’s target audience: Athletes. The ear cushions and inner band are washable, which may prove to be helpful after more intense workouts. And while not soft, these headphones do feel durable, giving the impression that they’d be able to handle countless hours in the gym without issue.
Thanks to social distancing guidelines, I still haven’t gotten back to the iron church, so I can’t speak to how well the RPT-01 fare when lifting. They did do well on the handful of runs I brought them along for. They’re heavier than a true wireless earbud alternative, of course, but they don’t have enough weight at 209 gram to significantly impact your cardio session. For reference, one of the most comparable alternatives, the JBL UA Sport Wireless Train, weighs considerably more at 240 grams.
I did feel that they were aggressively tight on my admittedly large head, though. That’s better than being too loose, but if I wasn’t using these primarily for exercise, the pressure would eventually become a nuisance.
Features I’m of the belief that all headphones and earbuds should have some sort of water resistance because of how they are becoming more deeply connected to our everyday life. That goes double for products meant for exercise. The RPT-01 thankfully doesn’t disappoint with an IPX4 rating that provides sweat and splash protection. The JBL counterpart features that same protection rating.
Nick Woodard/Digital Trends More impressive is the battery life of the RPT-01, which Adidas claims clocks in at 40 hours of playback. If you used these exclusively for working out and didn’t spend an eternity in the weight room à la Dwayne Johnson, it’s conceivable that you could get away with charging these around once a month.
Of course, at this price, you’ll likely want to get your money’s worth and wear them when you’re not getting pumped up, too. I’ve had close to a workweek’s allotment of hours with the RPT-01, and I’ve yet to plug in for a charge. That’s some solid juice for the cost. Notably, both the JBL Train and the more expensive Train Project Rock offer just 16 hours of playback between charges.
I enjoyed the functionality of the “control jog” button on the right cup of the RPT-01, which allowed me to pause and resume music with a regular press. A toggle to the right or left let me skip tracks, and toggling up and down took care of volume. In a world where we’ve too often succumbed to the confusion of multi-press functionality, this was an easy-to-use breath of fresh air.
Speaking of multi-press, there’s an action button on the left cup. A single press calls up your preferred voice assistant, which to my understanding can include Google Assistant , Apple’s Siri, and Amazon Alexa.
 Through the Adidas app, which I found surprisingly useful overall, you can program double-tap and triple-tap functions to pull up specific playlists, artists, or albums through Spotify. This is a neat feature, as long as you’re a subscriber.
Audio quality At the risk of repeating myself, the RPT-01 are first and foremost fitness headphones, and when it comes to working out, it’s typical to listen to something upbeat with generous servings of low end sound.
Nick Woodard/Digital Trends Adidas seems to know its audience, because that’s where the RPT-01 feel most at home. Scrolling through most of Spotify’s popular workout playlists demonstrated this, with tracks like Migos’ Walk It Talk It standing out. The RPT-01 have a wealth of bass, and they aren’t afraid to share it.
Move away from the workout playlists, however, and a few sound deficiencies becoem apparent. They’re still reasonably clear, and casual listeners shouldn’t have any issues with the audio, but all those bass-heavy selections hide an average midrange that leaves something to be desired when trying out a wider scope of music. These headphones sound good overall, but they just might not be able to satisfy those looking for truly great sound across multiple genres.
The app does have an equalizer feature with different presets to help mitigate the issue, as well as a custom preset that allows you to adjust frequencies to your desire. I also felt the built-in microphone did its job sufficiently when taking phone calls. At this price, active noise cancellation would have been appreciated, but it’s not a necessity.
Our take The Adidas RPT-01 are what I thought they were – a set of headphones dedicated almost exclusively to the gym rats of the world, with the ideal set of features to match it. They just don’t stack up incredibly well outside of the exercise space.
Are there better alternatives? The $160 JBL UA Sport Wireless Train come the closest to the Adidas in both price and design, but lack the battery power of the RPT-01 and only have Bluetooth 4.1 technology built in. If you don’t need headphones for breaking a sweat, both the $200 Razer Opus and $199 Sony WH-CH710N would be compelling options.
How long will they last? Adidas built these headphones to be able to take on everything fitness fanatics can throw at them. As such, expect them to have some staying power.
Should you buy them? Yes. The design and audio quality may not translate outside of working out, but that’s not what these were built for. The RPT-01 Sport are headphones for fitness, and they fit that mold well.
Editors' Recommendations Best cheap headphones and earbuds 2023: Jabra, 1More, and others Best headphones for 2023: Sony, Bose, Apple, and more The best headphones for swimming in 2023 Adidas partners with Grammy-nominated rapper Quavo on trio of earbuds The best headphones for back-to-school Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Ever since Beats by Dre proved that headphones can be as much of a personal style statement as a way of listening to music, audio companies have been looking for ways to dazzle your eyes along with your ears. Marshall uses its iconic guitar amp-inspired design language to lend a retro-cool vibe to its headphones, while Urbanista and Apple use bold color choices to make picking a pair of headphones as personal as choosing a T-shirt.
But when it comes to wireless headphones that send a visual message to those around you, it’s pretty hard to compete with the Meters by Ashdown Engineering, a line of British headphones that boast a working analog volume meter on the outside of each earcup, like the kind you'd find on a old-school '70s amp.
Audio / Video The experience of buying headphones can be like buying a car: Overwhelming, rife with misinformation, and a good opportunity to get ripped off if you're not careful. With countless models on the market from thousands of brands, finding the right pair can feel like a needle-in-haystack scenario.
Luckily, here at Digital Trends, we review boatloads of audio equipment, and we've discovered some key ways to discern between the deserving and the drivel. Of course, if you want specific recommendations, you can check out our individual reviews, or better yet, our best-of lists (see below), but there's something special about doing research and coming up with the perfect pair. In that spirit, we've crafted this headphone buying guide to help you get the absolute best sound and features for your dollars. Let's do this! Audio / Video When it comes to headphones specifically designed for working out, the pickings are slim. When you narrow that category to on-ear style headphones, it becomes somewhat improbable to find a capable pair.
Improbable, but not impossible. There are sweat-resistant, secure-fitting on-ear headphones available, and the best of the bunch is the Adidas RPT-01. We didn’t stop there, though: we’ve put our collective ears together to search out the best on-ear headphones on the market today.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
