Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best earbuds for making phone calls for 2023 By Michael Bizzaco and Derek Malcolm Close We’re betting that most of you have taken a phone call using a crummy pair of earbuds.
 Between the hissing, stunted noise isolation, and/or lack of intuitive controls, it can make a simple family catchup or an important work call a nightmare. OK, maybe not that bad. But still pretty bad.
Fortunately though, we know what goes into a great set of earbuds, and we know how important it is for audio to be crystal clear during a phone or video call. This is why we’ve applied our years of expertise to the vetting and testing of numerous headphone products that we believe are the best for any and all conversations. All of our findings can be found in the list below, and we’ve got options for everyone! Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Apple AirPods Pro 2 The best for iPhone users Excellent noise canceling Best conversation mode we've tested Solid audio quality Capable of wireless lossless audio Yes, USB-C Best features only for Apple products Still no biofeedback Regardless of whether you get the original 2nd generation of the Apple AirPods Pro or the latest and greatest USB-C version , the AirPods Pro 2, offer some of the best noise cancellation and calling features of any pair of earbuds on the market. The AirPods Pro line has always featured excellent active noise cancellation and transparency mode , but the second-generation model takes it one step further with improved ANC and a new Adaptive Transparency mode that adapts to the sounds around you.
This means your calls will be crystal clear, and you don't have to worry about traffic noises or background sounds disturbing your important discussions. Our in-depth review found the call sound quality has improved too, as hardly any background noise was heard, especially in indoor settings. Loud, outdoor settings may muffle your voice slightly, but it's still clear enough to understand.
Apple has also improved the battery life on the second-gen AirPods Pro, which now offer up to six hours per charge. This figure will be lower if you use ANC continuously. Our reviewer got a solid five hours during a noisy motorcycle trip, so you know it'll be sufficient for most calls on the go. Plus, a quick five-minute charge will give you back an hour of listening time.
The biggest issue, however, is that Android users miss out on many of the cool features, limiting the AirPods Pro 2 largely to iOS users. They're also a bit on the pricier side compared to other earbuds with decent calling functions, but if you love Apple, this is the best pick for you.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Jabra Elite 5 The best for noisy or windy conditions Small and comfy Very good sound quality Very good ANC/transparency Custom controls and EQ Hands-free voice assistants Excellent call quality Very good battery life Not the best sound for this price What really makes the difference when it comes to taking phone calls is a set of precision-tuned earbuds. After all, we want our in-ear companions to deliver as much clarity as possible, right? This is why we’re shining a light on the Jabra Elite 5. There are plenty of reasons to stand behind these buds, but their major calling card are the six far-field mics that go above and beyond when it comes to conversational clarity.
Thanks to a hybrid ANC system , the Elite 5 is intelligent enough to dial down common environmental sounds like traffic, HVAC systems, and office chitchat, while also working to enhance your voice during phone calls so everyone can hear you clearly. With this powerful combination of tech, you’ll be able to hear your caller more articulately, while doing away with all types of distracting noise.
These are also exceptional earbuds when it comes to overall sound quality. From one genre to the next, your music is going to sound rich and detailed, too. And if you’d like a little bass boost or a kick in the midrange, you can always download the Jabra Sound+ app to fine-tune your Elite 5’s performance.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Shokz OpenFit The best for hearing yourself and those around you Incredibly comfortable and secure Stay fully aware of your surroundings Very good call quality Good battery life Mediocre sound quality Not great for noisy locations No wireless charging Open-ear earbuds may not be as popular as other earbud designs, but we’re starting to see more and more of these models hitting shelves. If you want to invest in this tech, but need a solid pair of buds for calling family, friends, and colleagues, look no further than the Shokz OpenFit.
Right off the bat, we’re dealing with an air-conducive design, which means the OpenFit aren’t going to form the same type of seal as a more traditional product like the AirPods Pro 2. But this also means that our ear canals get a break from stubby silicone eartips, and Shokz was sure to build in plenty of AI noise processing to the OpenFit. When taking a phone call, your own voice is pronounced, but not overwhelming, and the person on the other end sounds crisp and clear.
We’re also big fans of the fact that these earbuds support Bluetooth Multipoint , which allows for some rather seamless switching between devices like smartphones, tablets, and computers.
That being said, if you're into the whole open-ear earbuds thing, but want to have other options to choose from, definitely consider the Sony LinkBuds and Oladance OWS Pro.
 Both offer exceptional sound quality, as well as terrific phone call quality.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Google Pixel Buds Pro The best for Google fans Compact and comfy Very good sound quality Very effective ANC/transparency Wireless charging Bluetooth Multipoint No real EQ adjustments No high-quality/low-latency codecs Still no iOS Pixel Buds app If you're an Android user, the Google Pixel Buds Pro are a good option for calling and overall use. Along with a gorgeous look in vivid colors, the Pixel Buds Pro impress with great ANC and clear sound quality, especially when you're indoors. They aren't excellent in super noisy conditions but still maintain decent sound clarity.
The Pixel Buds Pro are always compared to the AirPods Pro and do fall short in terms of noise cancellation and overall sound quality, but this doesn't mean the Pixel Buds Pro are bad. The transparency features are top-notch, and switching the ANC on and off is fairly easy. Android users also get Bluetooth multipoint connection and Google's renowned voice assistant features that make both calls and music easier and more enjoyable to listen to.
The biggest plus point here may be the battery life that beats the better-sounding AirPods Pro 2. You typically get seven hours of use with ANC and an impressive 11 hours with ANC off, making the Pixel Buds Pro an ideal pick for people making calls on the go.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sony WF-1000XM5 The best for sound quality and battery life Small and comfortable Top-notch sound Excellent noise canceling Superb call quality Bluetooth multipoint with LDAC Fit isn't super secure The Sony WF-1000XM4s and the WF-1000XM3s before them have featured prominently in our best earbuds lists for ages because of their rich sound quality and excellent features. Like their predecessors, the XM5s feature support for the high-quality LDAC Bluetooth codec , and as we found in our review, sound quality has even improved over the XM4s. This all means that you'll enjoy smooth calling, as well as being able to hear the finer details when listening to music.
The noise cancellation and transparency mode has also gotten a significant upgrade with the inclusion of a new HD Noise Cancelling Processor QN2e, which our reviewer says has improved things from 10% to 15%. ANC and transparency modes still let you seamlessly switch between paying attention to the call and being aware of your surroundings. In fact, the earbuds automatically detect when you begin speaking and pause the music so you don't need to remove the earbuds if a friend stops by. All of these settings are also easy to customize through the app, making these one of the most easy to use pairs of earbuds for calls that you can find.
For the XM5s, Sony has thrown a ton of tech at call quality. Along with its new processor, there are also six mics and a bone conduction sensor in each earbud that uses an AI algorithm that has been trained by 500 million voice samples. Your voice is fed to the AI that Sony says intelligently separates it from background sounds. And it works like a charm. Traffic, construction, wind, and more are hushed on both ends of the call.
The battery life hasn't changed, and still doesn't disappoint. They run for eight hours with ANC on and 12 hours with ANC off, putting them far ahead of competitors like the AirPods Pro 2. Fast charging, however, has improved, giving you an hour of playback after just three minutes plugged in (for the XM4s, it took five minutes, so take that with some skepticism).
The downside is the price. They're the most expensive earbuds on this list, setting you back $50 to $100 more than other popular models.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Buds 2 Pro The best for Samsung Galaxy owners Excellent fit and feel Plenty of features They look great Acceptable battery life "360 Audio" is not good Head tracking isn't great If you're a Samsung Galaxy user, this one's a no-brainer. Going with the Galaxy Buds 2 Pro will give you good call quality and easy pairing with Galaxy phones. The Galaxy app also makes everything easy to adjust, giving you full control over the noise cancellation and transparency mode, which is ideal for making sure your call sounds right.
The Galaxy Buds 2 Pro aren't the best in the market, but you get some cool features like 24-bit audio, 360 Audio (its version of spatial audio), and head tracking for an improved listening experience. The automatic voice detection is also quite useful, turning the transparency mode on and lowering the volume if you start talking to someone in front of you. The five-hour runtime with ANC on won't last you through long journeys, but it's more than enough for everyday calls during your commute or at the office.
The extra features like 360 Audio aren't top-notch, but they don't really affect the call quality that much, so you're fine. They are a bit expensive, though, considering some of the features are subpar compared to other similarly-priced earbuds.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Soundcore Liberty 4 NC Best for call quality on a budget Thoughtful design Great sound Impressive noise-canceling Very good call quality Superb battery life Bluetooth Multipoint Mediocre transparency mode For a more than reasonable $100, the Anker Soundcore Liberty 4 NC are earbuds that offer handsome looks and great features, including impressive sound, really good ANC, and stellar battery life at a budget price.
We'll expand on those features in a second, but you came here looking for earbuds that are great at making calls, and the Liberty 4 NCs are just that. They boast ANC that Digital Trends' Simon Cohen says rivals the Apple AirPods Pro 2. The Liberty 4 NCs feature adaptive noise canceling that you can either set to environmental detection mode that adjusts perfectly on its own, or you could opt for a handful of "transportation" modes, or tweak it manually to your liking with a slider in the app. All this translates to call quality that excellently blocks loud outside sounds and compresses your voice so it sounds clear in any situation.
When listening to music, the Liberty 4 NC perform well too, with excellent bass response, clear mids and highs (although a bit sibilant, Cohen reports) and low distortion. They are fully packed with eight-band EQing in the Soundcore app. Additionally, the Liberty 4 NCs have support for the hi-res LDAC Bluetooth codec that Android users can enjoy, although you probably can't notice the difference. There's also Bluetooth multipoint support so you can pair to two devices at the same time -- think watching videos on your laptop while still being able to answer calls from your phone.
Battery life on the Liberty 4 NCs is pretty great for that $100 too, netting you eight hours with ANC on and 40 hours in the case. Turn ANC off and it's still not bad at 10/50, and a quick 10-minute top-up will deliver four hours of non-ANC listening time.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Status Audio Between 3ANC Be stylish while talking on the phone Super comfortable Unique design Great battery life Amazing call quality Powerful sound Slightly harsh high frequencies No wear sensors No hi-res Bluetooth codecs You might not have heard of Status Audio, but the small audio company has already turned heads with its unique-looking and stylish Between Pro wireless earbuds.
 While the Between Pros are a lower-priced $169 set of buds, the 3ANCs add ANC and a significant price bump, putting them on par with the likes of the $249 AirPods Pro, which may or may not bode well for the young company.
When we reviewed the Between 3ANCs, we appreciated their stylish, if slightly obtrusive rectangular shape. But they're comfortable and secure as heck (runners will like them), and their three-driver design delivers excellent sound that's well separated, meaning the lush low end, clear and punchy mids, and precise highs (if a bit sibilant, our review found) all cleanly run in their own lanes. There are also some great EQ options in the companion app for dialing the sound in to your precise liking. For this price range, though, we're a little bummed that they don't offer anything other than the basic SBC and AAC codecs.
Status Audio's first stab at ANC is pretty impressive too, doing a great job at blocking out noisy restaurants and city streets. Transparency mode is not bad either, letting you hear just the right amount of outside noise. Which brings us to the call quality — which our reviewer, Simon Cohen, says is "amazing." With six microphones, Cohen says that the environmental noise canceling "totally erases background sounds — even fairly loud ones." While he does mention that the ANC does sometimes cancel out your voice too, in situations where the background noise is substantial (like a noisy truck or something), the problem is rare. But otherwise, voices sound excellent and "almost studio-like." The Between 3ANCs also feature Bluetooth multipoint connectivity, easy-to-use gesture control on the buds themselves that can be configured in the companion app, and bountiful battery life — eight hours with ANC on and 12 with it off. The charging case boosts this to 24 and 36, respectively, putting them in the race with the big boys like the AirPods Pro, Jabra Elite 7, and Sennheiser Momentum True Wireless 3s. Not bad for a second outing.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday AirPods Deals: Get Apple’s earbuds for $59 Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more The best waterproof wireless earbuds for 2023 Best headphones for running for 2023: JLab, JBL, Shokz, and more Best cheap headphones and earbuds 2023: Jabra, 1More, and others Apple Best Products Headphones Audio / Video It's 2023 -- time to upgrade to an OLED TV. OLED technology gives you darker blacks, richer colors, and more accurate lighting than any other TV technology. While you're browsing for the best OLED TV deals, don't discount the best OLED TVs of 2023 just because you assume they're too expensive. In fact, our favorite OLED TV of the year has a fantastic discount today.
That's right, the best OLED TV out there, the LG C3, is currently on the sale at Best Buy. The 77-inch LG C3 is normally $3,200, but right now it's down to just $$2,500, a nice $700 discount that shouldn't be ignored. OLED TVs of this size don't get much cheaper than this, so you might as well go for a top shelf product. If you're not sure yet, keep reading as why dive into what makes the LG C3 the best OLED TV out there for your money. But make sure to grab this TV before the deal ends.
Audio / Video Kid-friendly consumer tech is all the rage these days, so it’s no surprise that there’s an entire market of headphones designed exclusively for our young ones. But when we think “kid-friendly,” sometimes we imagine products that are built to be a bit more throwaway than the adult counterparts. That’s not the case with our list of the best headphones for kids, though.
We want our child-tailored headphones to include parental-controlled volume limiters, to ensure our children aren’t harming their eardrums. Pretty much every entry on our list checks this vital box, but we also wanted to point you and yours toward products that offer exceptional noise-cancelling, built-in mics for phone and video calls, as well as long-lasting batteries for schooldays or a long flight.
Audio / Video The best TVs of 2023 are all models that deliver exceptional picture quality, solid motion clarity, and intuitive streaming platforms. But beyond watching movies and shows, these TVs should also deliver a phenomenal gameplay experience, whether you’re a Playstation 5 household or a Nintendo Switch devotee.
Unfortunately, some TV brands don't put as much into gaming optimizations as others, but there are many great gaming TVs out there, so we put together this guide that breaks down some of our favorite gaming TVs giving a couple of choices for budget, midrange, and premium TVs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
