Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best headphones for making phone calls for 2023 By Sakshi Udavant Close Whether you're working from home or living the digital nomad life taking calls on the go, it's important to have high-quality headphones so your important discussions can happen without any disturbance. While you can use any headphones to make calls, we recommend opting for options with excellent active noise canceling (ANC), clear sound quality, and an easy-to-switch transparency mode to get the best results.
We've saved you the hard work and rounded up the best headphones with microphones for calls, and to be clear, we're talking about over-ear headphones. Prefer earbuds? We've got you covered, too, with our list of the best earbuds for phone calls.
 Let's get to it.
More More More Sony / Sony Sony WH-1000XM5 Best overall headphones for making calls Excellent sound Very good comfort Ultra-clear call quality Best-in-class noise canceling Very good battery life Hi-res compatible (wired/wireless) Hands-free voice assistant access Classy, modern design Fold-flat, but don’t fold up Sony is well-known for making some of the best headphones around, and this pair is one of the best they have — they currently top both our best headphones and best wireless headphones lists. With unmatched sound quality and top-tier noise cancellation, the Sony WH-1000XM5 is a solid 10/10. Their powerful noise cancellation "erases" outside sound, as our reviewer says, so you can take calls anywhere from a busy coffee shop to a noisy construction site. Thanks to their powerful processors, your sound reaches the person on the other end of the call quite clearly, even if you're standing in the middle of a bustling street or operating heavy machinery. The transparency mode is just as impressive, giving you a good mix of inner and outer sounds for those moments when you have to be aware of the world around you.
The XM5s get even better with their long-lasting battery life. You get 30 hours of continuous runtime with ANC on and a whopping 40 hours when ANC is off. This means you can go the whole week without a charge. Just three minutes of charging gives you three hours of playback, making them one of the best pairs of headphones for phone calls as well as overall use.
The only issue here is the hefty price tag setting you back $400. But the remarkable features are quite worth the price, so if you have a bigger budget, absolutely go for it.
More Riley Young/Digital Trends Apple AirPods Max Best for Apple users Best-in-class ANC Amazing transparency mode Excellent build quality Excellent sound quality Top-notch call quality Charges via Lightning cable Heavy on head If you're an iOS user, the Apple AirPods Max are, no doubt, the best pick for you. Featuring excellent, clear sound and top-notch noise cancellation, these are perfect for both indoor and outdoor calls, snagging a spot on our list of the best noise-canceling headphones.
 The transparency mode and ANC features are everything you could ask for, giving you better performance than other similarly priced headphones.
Calling is as smooth as it gets with the AirPods Max. They handle wind noise and minimize disturbances to the point where you don't even realize there's noise around you. You also get a large, intuitive button to switch between ANC and transparency mode so you can handle calls and listen to music just the way you like.
Connectivity is excellent as well, especially with Apple products, although they're terrible for Android users. The $549 price tag also puts them out of many people's budget range, but if you're deep in the Apple ecosystem and have money to spend, we highly recommend the AirPods Max. There's also a wide range of great AirPods Max accessories to spice things up, too.
More Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Sony’s best noise-canceling headphones just got a big discount Sony WH-1000XM5 headphones just got another big price cut Simon Cohen / Digital Trends JBL Tour One Mid-range headphones with top-shelf calling Effective ANC Good sound quality Excellent call quality Great battery life No sidetone for calls No aptX/aptX HD/LDAC codecs JBL isn't the first name that comes to mind when you think of headphones, but the JBL Tour Ones are seriously worth considering, especially for frequent callers. These are cheaper than the popular Sony and Apple models but offer good ANC with brilliant call quality even in noisy settings. The noise cancellation isn't as good as the Sony WH-1000XM5, AirPods Max, or Bose headphones, but they more than make up for it with calling performance. The mic doesn't pick up external noise and keeps your voice crystal clear for perfectly smooth, professional-sounding calls.
You get a transparency mode called Ambient Aware to keep track of your surroundings, as well as a TalkThru mode for speaking to someone in front of you. But this doesn't work when you're on a call. The battery life is another plus point, giving you 50 hours of playback with ANC off and about 25 hours with continuous ANC. Charging is also fast, adding three hours with a 10-minute charge.
Bose Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 Bose quality and all-round performance Excellent noise canceling Extremely comfortable Remarkable voice clarity for calls and voice assistants Connect to multiple devices at once USB-C brings convenient quick-charging Boost to lower treble comes off as harsh Requires Bose Music App to control many functions Bose delivers clean performance every single time, and the Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 are no exception. You get impressive sound clarity on calls, and the mic is adept at canceling background noise so there are no pesky interruptions during your conversations. They're pricey at $400, but the great-sounding calls are definitely worth the investment if you always use your headphones for calling.
The Bose 700 work quite well with voice assistants, too, so you don't have to fiddle with the buttons for every little function. The ANC is already fairly decent, but using the Bose Music app gives you more control over your listening experience. The battery is good, too, giving you 40 hours of runtime with ANC off and 20 hours with ANC on, which is more than enough for everyday calling and general use. The fast charging will also come in handy if you have an urgent call coming up, as you get more than two hours of playback with just 15 minutes of charging.
These don't offer 10/10 sound quality and unmatched noise cancelation, though, which may make it hard to justify the heavy price tag. But the Bose 700 are really, really good for calling, so if that's your priority, you might want to pick these up.
More Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends 1More SonoFlow Best on a budget Great sound quality Very comfortable for long periods Ridiculous battery life Solid ANC performance Great app support Affordable price No wear sensors Wired mode disables extra features If you can't invest in a $300-plus pair of headphones at the moment, worry not. You can still get good-quality calling headphones with a mic for just $100. Take the 1More SonoFlow, for instance. You get decent ANC considering it's a third of the price of other premium headphones, and the call quality is good enough for everyday use.
The sound quality is fairly good, too, with our reviewer gushing about the SonoFlow's punchy 40mm drivers and support for Sony’s LDAC hi-res codec, if you're into that sort of thing. But where these cans really shine is with their impressive battery life. You get 50 hours of runtime with ANC on and an unbelievable 70 hours with ANC off, putting these ahead of most of the popular, high-end headphones.
You also get Bluetooth multipoint and 12 EQ presets, which are quite a lot of features for $100 headphones. As expected, these aren't our best pick for noise cancelation and sound quality, though, but if calling is your focus, these will do a great job for a budget pick.
Editors' Recommendations Best earbuds for making phone calls for 2023 The best noise-canceling headphones of 2023: Bose, Sony, and more Best Bose 700 Headphone deals: Save $80 at Best Buy Some of the best wireless headphones are discounted today Best wireless earbuds for 2023: Sony, Bose, Soundcore, and more Best Products Headphones Sony Audio / Video Did you miss your chance to get the Sony WH-1000XM5 wireless headphones with a discount? Don't worry because Walmart is offering another opportunity, as the retailer has slashed their price by $51. You'll only have to pay $349 instead of $400 for these popular wireless headphones, but if you want to make sure that you're able to take advantage of the bargain this time around, it's highly recommended that you don't hesitate -- proceed with the purchase immediately.
Why you should buy the Sony WH-1000XM5 wireless headphones There are several reasons why the Sony WH-1000XM5 comfortably sit on top of our roundup of the best headphones, but it all starts with their active noise cancellation that uses two processors and eight microphones to block all external sound. The wireless headphones even have an Auto NC Optimizer, which makes automatic adjustments to the feature depending on your environment and wearing conditions. Their audio quality is also topnotch, as the Sony WH-1000XM5 are powered by the brand's Integrated Processor V1 for magnificent sound, while call quality is also amazing with four beamforming microphones, precise voice pickup, and advanced audio signal processing.
Audio / Video For anyone wanting the very best, Woot has some amazing headphone deals right now. The biggest highlight being able to buy the Sony WH-1000XM5 headphones for just $280. It's an unopened model so you'll be the first to use them but there is a minor catch. If you've already clicked through on the buy button, you'll have spotted it. Why is the Add to Cart button faded and impossible to click? Because you need to use Woot's Appsclusive app to buy the headphones at this amazing price. The app is available for iOS, Android, and on the Amazon App Store and it's easy to use. If you need to know a little more about these headphones, read on while we take a look at them.
Why you should buy the Sony WH-1000XM5 Headphones Not just featuring in our look at the best headphones but actually topping the list -- the Sony WH-1000XM5 are a dream to use.
Deals For a long time, the Sony WH-1000XM4 headphones were at the top of the game regarding consumer audio and active noise cancellation technology. Well, it's time for them to move over because their successor, the Sony WH-1000XM5, have taken the crown of best headphones. And right now you can take advantage of some great Cyber Monday deals, like this one from Best Buy, bringing the Sony WH-1000XM5 headphones down to $348 from $400. That's pretty good discount for new high-end headphones.
Why you should buy the Sony WH-1000XM5 headphones It's hard to know where to start with the Sony WH-1000XM5, but the audio seems like a good idea, and we're happy to say that even though they have smaller drivers, the audio fidelity is better than the XM4. Of course, at this end of the scale, a lot of it is subjective, but the truth is that there's an overall finer and more subtle sound than the XM4. Bass response is also rather excellent without being too overwhelming to the whole soundstage. That means the overall tuning is more flat and likely to appeal to more folks, whereas if you prefer something bass-heavy and punchy, you might still prefer the XM4.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
