Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more By Simon Cohen and Derek Malcolm Close Generally speaking, earbuds are the go-to earphones for many people because of their compact form. They charge in their case and you can pop them in your pocket or purse for glorious sound without lugging a big pair of headphones around. But for a truly immersive and stress-relieving experience, what you really need is a pair of the best noise-canceling earbuds.
Today's noise-canceling earbuds are pretty advanced and feature active noise cancellation (ANC) that can be fine-tuned to your liking with varying levels of canceling. They also feature sound passthrough features, also known as transparency mode, that allow you to let in, and even amplify, outside sounds and conversations; many even do this automatically.
Brands, from the biggest in the biz (including Bose, Beats, Sony, Jabra, Apple, and Sennheiser) to the less recognizable (but still great), like Earfun and 1More, are all offering ANC earbuds to suit every imaginable use and price range. We've tested tons of them, and although everyone has their own specific needs and wants, we believe that the Sony WF-1000XM5 are the best noise-canceling earbuds you can buy.
But let's assume you want to explore your options for earbuds with the best design, battery life, transparency modes, and other specs. That's where we come in! We've compiled this roundup of the best noise-canceling earbuds you can buy right now.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sony WF-1000XM5 The best overall noise-canceling earbuds Small and comfortable Top-notch sound Excellent noise canceling Superb call quality Bluetooth multipoint with LDAC Fit isn't super secure It's no surprise to us that Sony's latest version of its superb WF-1000XM-series earbuds, the XM5, have taken over the top spot on our best noise canceling earbuds list from its predecessor, the still excellent XM4 (which you should still totally buy if you want to save a few bucks).
So, what's new with the XM5s? Not much, it turns out, but enough to warrant the $50 price increase that makes the $300 wireless earbuds Sony's most expensive yet. The XM5s address one of the main concerns of the XM4s, which was that they are a bit too big. The XM5s shave 25% off the size, making them smaller, sleeker, and more comfortable, too.
ANC has also been improved, and that's why you're here, right? A new dual processor (the XM4s only have one) features a dedicated chip to specifically handle noise canceling, and they work with six onboard microphones and redesigned drivers to achieve what our reviewer found to be 10% to 15% improved ANC. With the right eartips selected (the Sony Headphones app has a fit test you can use), the Sony WF-1000XM5s easily go toe-to-toe with the $250 Apple AirPods Pro 2 and the $279 Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II.
Transparency mode in the XM5 is also top notch. It sounds natural and there's a feature that can detect when you're talking so it can pause your music and automatically switch the earbuds from ANC to transparency mode so you can have a conversation.
With deep bass, as well as clear mids and highs, the XM5 keeps in step with the XM4's excellent sound, courtesy of their 40% bigger drivers. The XM5 also support spatial audio with head tracking. Call quality is also very good on the XM5, and it uses dual processing tech and AI to separate your voice from background noise. They also support Bluetooth Multipoint connectivity.
Sony didn't see fit to touch the XM4's battery life for the XM5, which offer eight hours of playtime with ANC turned on and 12 hours with it off, Plus, the charging case doles out two full charges for a total of 24 hours.
With their compact form, snug and comfortable fit suitable for all-day use, full Sony sound, and some of the best ANC around, you can't go wrong with these formidable noise-canceling true wireless earbuds.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Jabra Elite 7 Pro The next best noise-canceling earbuds Super comfortable Great sound quality Excellent call quality Very good ANC and transparency Good battery life Wireless charging Tons of customization options Excellent water/dust protection None Like our top-pick Sony WF-1000XM5s, the Jabra Elite 7 Pro earbuds are descendant from a family of outstanding earbuds whose praises we've sung for years. In fact, we've continued singing the lineage's praises through to the Elite 7 Pro's successor, the Jabra Elite 10 , which sound better and add Dolby Atmos spatial audio with head-tracking to the mix. So, then, why haven't they usurped the Elite 7 Pros on this list? Simple: because the ANC isn't as good.
Aside from being one of if not the most comfortable pairs of earbuds we've ever tried, the Elite 7 Pro have outstanding noise cancelation, due in part to their fully closed design that provides a tight seal. The result is comfy and ultra-quiet earbuds that will bring you peace and quiet.
The Elite 7 Pro's transparency mode (called HearThrough) is also pretty great, and switching between it and ANC is as easy as a tap on the left earbud. Add to that the fantastic Jabra Sound+ app that makes the Elite 7 Pros the most customizable earbuds we've ever tested.
The Elite 7 Pros have managed to combine rich and powerful bass that make everything from guitars and synths to vocals sit where they're supposed to in the soundstage for accurate reproduction of your favorite tunes. Call quality is also superb on the Elite 7 Pros, and it's worth noting that a firmware update in January this year added a multipoint Bluetooth connection, meaning you can do things like listen to music from your phone while participating on a Zoom call on your computer at the same time.
If working out is on your list of main uses for a pair of earbuds, then the Elite 7 Pro's IP57 rating will please you, as they're waterproof in up to a meter of water for up to 30 minutes.
Battery-wise, the Elite 7 Pro will last for eight hours with ANC on, and a quick charge of five minutes will net you an hour of listening. All in, with the power provided by the charging case, the Jabra Elite 7 Pros boast 30 hours of total playtime, and even more with ANC turned off.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II Best ANC tech in noise-canceling earbuds for all users Very comfortable Very good sound quality Outstanding noise cancellation Very good transparency Adjustable EQ modes No wireless charging No Bluetooth multipoint Poor outdoor call quality When Bose released the upgrade version of its QuietComfort earbuds, it made a bold claim – that they had the best active noise cancellation available. That includes new technology like CustomTune, which is supposed to run a test of your ears and adjust the ANC as a result. We don’t know how much difference that makes, but we do know that these earbuds have some of the best ANC that we’ve experienced, outshone only by the very latest releases like the AirPods Pro 2.
The ANC includes both Quiet and Aware transparency modes (we appreciate the option to choose which we prefer), along with an adjustable EQ that offers several presets for boosts or reductions. The design also saw a welcome upgrade with now-separated eartips for easier fits, and although they stick out a bit the design remains entirely comfortable. The IPX4 rating also removes any fears of using these buds outdoors, no matter the weather. The touch controls have also added volume swiping (which is making the rounds in the latest high-tech earbuds).
Not everything is perfect with Bose’s latest entry: The battery life remains average at up to six hours plus three full charges in the case, which for some reason doesn’t support wireless charging. But if you’re looking for earbuds that put the “cancellation” in ANC – and aren’t a big Apple user – Bose has the quiet you’re listening for.
More Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Apple AirPods Pro 2 Best noise-canceling earbuds for Apple users Excellent noise canceling Best conversation mode we've tested Solid audio quality Capable of wireless lossless audio Yes, USB-C Best features only for Apple products Still no biofeedback As popular as the cheaper Apple AirPods are, the AirPods Pro 2 eclipse them in every way. According to our experienced reviewers, the ANC in these high-end earbuds is best in class. They create a cone of silence effect that has to be experienced to be appreciated.
The AirPods Pro 2 feature super-simple pairing (its own version of multipoint, that works quite well) and hands-free Siri access when connected to an iPhone, as well as an IPX4 water-resistance rating that protects against sweat and splashes during workouts. Apple also added an adaptive EQ technology that adjusts the frequency response to your listening conditions, something that few other companies offer. The 2022 version includes updated touch controls including a volume slider, and improved technology for spatial audio, among other tricks, and the even more recent update released in September of this year saw the popular buds adopt USB-C charging in place of its longtime Lightning format.
Battery life for the AirPods Pro 2 is enough for a full day at around five hours per charge and 24 hours of total life with the earbuds’ included case, though this is on the low end when you look at other models in this roundup. There’s no doubt that these buds are pricey at $249, but for Apple users in particular, they represent the best combination of noise cancellation and operating system integration available today.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Beats Studio Buds+ Best ANC for under $200 Very comfortable Great battery life Excellent noise canceling Solid call quality Clear transparency mode No wireless charging No Bluetooth Multipoint No EQ controls Just to be clear before we start, the Beats Studio Buds+ are not the second-gen model of the Beats Studio Buds.
 They're $20 more at $170 and better in almost every way (we'll get into that in a sec), but they're still being sold alongside the Beats Studio, so that's weird. But that's neither here nor there. You should still totally buy the Buds+ over the other guy because for under $200 they have better battery life, ANC, and transparency mode, and a cool transparent design (they also come in ivory and black/gold), so whatever Beats is up to, who cares – they're great ANC earbuds.
Beats says that 95% of the internal components of the Buds+ are new, and it shows. It also claims that the ANC is 160% better, but our reviewer thinks it's more like 200%, even giving the AirPods Pro 2 a run for their money. They do a great job at blocking outside sounds, transparency mode has gotten a bump, and the call quality benefits, too -- all thanks to new mics and noise-processing algorithms.
As for sound quality, the drivers in the Buds+ are actually one of the only parts that didn't get upgraded, but that's OK because the sound in the Studio Buds was pretty good as well, with excellent clarity and accuracy, and the Buds+ are no different — if anything, the Bud+ offer a wider, and more detailed soundstage. However, there's no option for EQ adjustment and there's only support for SBC and AAC Bluetooth codecs , which will be fine for most people. Don't worry, they still sound great.
"These remain some of the most comfortable in-ear buds I have ever worn," our reviewer stated, which is good because, as mentioned above, the battery of the Beats Studio Buds+ get a substantial improvement. While the per-charge playtime has only gone from eight to nine hours, its the total battery life where things get a big bump, going from 24 to 36 total hours (both numbers are without ANC). Worth the extra $20? You betcha.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Technics EAH-AZ60 Best sound quality for the price Excellent sound quality Excellent noise cancellation Hi-res audio support Hands-free Alexa Bluetooth multipoint No wireless charging No in-ear sensors A more affordable version of Technic's excellent but pricey EAH-AZ70 true wireless noise-canceling earbuds, the AZ60s offer up Technics' legendary sound and are packed with primo ANC.
Comfy and light, the AZ60s are easy to wear for long periods of time, with their soft silicone eartips (in seven sizes) creating a full seal to help block outside noise to complement the ANC (more on that below).
The AZ60's ANC? Amazing. Ambient noise, hums, traffic, and nearby conversations are well and properly filtered, making for a clear, clean experience.
Transparency mode is activated easily with a long press on the right earbud, and the Technics Audio Connect app allows for ample fine-tuning, including a feature that lets you bump up and enhance voices for when you're having a conversation.
As you would expect from Technics, the makers of some of the most legendary audio equipment ever , the sound quality from the EAH-AZ60s is superb, making these earbuds one of the best-sounding pairs on our list. With their default EQing, the EAH-AZ60s are controlled and stable across the whole bass-mid-high spectrum, but that can all be tailored to your liking with the Audio Connect app.
As with the Sony WF-1000XM5s, these Technics also support Sony's hi-res LDAC Bluetooth codec, which you can experience when connected to a compatible phone or device.
The Technics EAH-AZ60s battery life isn't anything to write home about, though, with roughly seven hours per charge with ANC activated and a total of 24 to 25 hours of playtime with the charging case (which isn't wireless, by the way). Using the LDAC will yield even less playtime. But that's a reasonable tradeoff considering the sound quality for the price.
Lastly, we'd be remiss if we didn't point out that the a newer version of these earbuds, the Technics EAH-AZ60M2 offers three-way multipoint connectivity and wireless charging for $20 more. But if these aren't important features to you, the first gen is a way better deal.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends JBL Reflect Flow Pro Best athletic noise-canceling earbuds Solid, secure fit Excellent noise-canceling Choice of hands-free voice A.I.s Completely waterproof Wireless charging Limited control options No quick-charge option Finding a great pair of earbuds for your workout isn't an easy feat. They have to fit securely, sound great, and offer some top-notch ANC. Well then, the JBL Reflect Flow Pro sports buds could be the perfect pair.
Super comfortable, the Reflect Pros offer three sizes of silicone eartips and four choices of wingtips that help secure the earbuds. The My JBL Headphones app can also run a test to help you zero in on the perfect fit. Their IP68 rating means they can take on whatever dust, water, and sweat your activities can throw at them, and you can completely submerge them in water to rinse them off afterward.
But that's putting the cart before the horse. During your workout, the Reflect Flow Pros deliver all the tub-thumping bass you'll need to drive you further while not skimping on the clear mids and highs for those motivational lyrics. The My Headphones app also offers some EQing features to help you dial in your perfect sound.
But what about the noise-cancellation and transparency modes? Outdoors, traffic and ambient noises were kept in check, while inside (should you want to use them for work, too), annoying sounds like hums and bathroom fans were filtered out. The Reflect Flow Pros' transparency mode is also really good. Two presets are available – Ambient Aware (for general environmental sounds) and TalkThru for conversations.
Battery power in decent, with 10 hours of playback time on a single charge (eight with ANC on) and an extra 20 hours with the Qi-compatible wireless charging case, which competes with some of the best on our list. There's also voice assistant support for Siri, Alexa, and Google Assistant, plus a Find My Buds feature that will help you locate them if they're lost or stolen.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Google Pixel Buds Pro Best ANC earbuds for Android users Compact and comfy Very good sound quality Very effective ANC/transparency Wireless charging Bluetooth Multipoint No real EQ adjustments No high-quality/low-latency codecs Still no iOS Pixel Buds app Google knew that Android fans were looking for highly compatible earbuds with up-to-date ANC tech, and the Pixel Buds Pro were designed to deliver. Fortunately, they succeeded in almost all respect. These earbuds make the perfect companion for Android phone fans, especially if you’ve got a Pixel phone to pair with them. They’re also more affordable than competitors from brands like Apple or Bose, which wins them an extra nod.
These buds are designed for a tight, minimalistic in-ear fit with a vented design, plus a variety of eartips to choose from and an eartip seal test to improve the ANC and find the right fit. Whether you’re using the Pixel settings or the Pixel Bud app, controls are a breeze and the ANC comes with easy off and transparency modes … plus, of course, access to Google Assistant, which is a serious advantage if you’re already plugged into the Google smart world.
But perhaps best of all, the Pixel Buds Pro sound great, better than any Pixel Buds before with crisp sounds – albeit combined with a lack of EQ options or high-res audio support (the latter of which, Google says is on the way). But if you’re already invested in the Android ecosystem, they’re the perfect companion earbuds that will fit in like a dream.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Audio-Technica ATH-TWX9 Best AirPods Pro alternative Excellent sound quality Very comfy and secure fit Effective noise cancellation Keeps your voice clear (indoors) Kills bacteria with UV light Erratic multipoint behavior Limited control customization Shorter than average battery life Apple AirPods are really good true wireless earbuds, to be sure. But if you're not too keen on jumping into the Apple ecosystem and you're looking for a set of earbuds that have great sound and noise canceling that rivals Apple's little white buds, the folks at Audio-Technica have more than earned their reputation as one of the world's best brands.
Sure, the Audio-Technica ATH-TWX9, are $50 more than the AirPods Pro at $299, but they sound amazing (like you'd expect from A-T), with customizable EQ through the A-T app, so you can tweak them to your preferences. But during our review of them, Digital Trends' headphone expert, Simon Cohen, was so happy with their punchy bass and precise and clean highs out of the box that he preferred not to use the EQ — they sound that good.
With support for up to 24-bit/96kHz hi-res audio with aptX Adaptive Bluetooth on a compatible device (Android only), you can enjoy the best that music streaming services like Tidal and Apple Music have to offer.
But let's get to the reason you're here — ANC. The TWX9s are outstanding here as well, with five modes you can choose based on your situation, such as airplanes, trains, and noisy offices. There's also an "Optimized" mode that measures the ambient noise around you and adjusts the ANC to suit the situation. The earbuds also have an automatic calibration process that analyzes how the buds fit in your ears, adjusting the sound and ANC accordingly.
The ATH-TWX9 have a sleek, textured matte black finish that is just the right amount of grippy and distinctly anti-AirPod in its look. The buds are comfy and fit really well, so they can be worn for long stretches at a time. The battery will yield around six hours per charge and a total of 18 hours with the wireless charging case and ANC on, which is less than the AirPods Pro's 6/30 hours, but we don't think that's a deal breaker.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Technics EAH-AZ80 Most comfortable ANC earbuds Really comfortable Warm, detailed sound Top-notch noise cancellation Class-leading call quality Convenient 3-way Bluetooth A bit pricey Slightly lacking in clarity If you've eyeballed the mid-range Technics AZ60s on our list above but found yourself wondering what spending a little more cash on the company's flagship earbuds will get you, we can tell you right now that you'll get a premium set of buds that are considerably more comfortable than even the the top-rated Sony WF-1000XM4s and even the $350 Bowers & Wilkins Pi7 S2.
With seven sizes and shapes of silicone eartips, you can dial in the perfect, secure fit, and in our review the AZ80s remained comfy after several continuous hours of use. This excellent fit lends itself perfectly to the AZ80's ANC capabilities, which our reviewer Simon Cohen says is up there with the big kids, Sony, Bose, and Apple, and performs similarly well to the WF-1000XM4, QuietComfort II, and AirPods Pro 2, which is some high praise. They do a great job at blocking out street noise and the rabble of large crowds, and they're equally effective at handling wind noise, too. The AZ80's transparency mode is solid, too, with two modes available: the customizable "Transparent" mode that allows you to set the percentage of the sounds you let in, and "Attention," which is not configurable, but is best for calls or conversations.
Sound quality out of the box is detailed with "a satisfying balance of frequencies, with a decidedly warm overall tone," Cohen says. We're talking about Technics here, so rest assured the sound is in the hands of some pros. That said, no one knows what you like but you, so the Audio Connect app also gives you EQ control with presets and manual options. And if you're an Android user, the AZ80s have support for Sony's LDAC Bluetooth codec, so you can bask in the detail of hi-res audio.
Rounding out the features of the Technics AZ80s, these wireless noise-canceling earbuds are IPX4 rated, which means they'll stand up to sweat and rain and a battery life of up to 7.5 hours per charge (25 with the case) with ANC off, and 4.5/16 with it on. Oh, one unique trick that the AZ80s can do is Bluetooth multipoint connectivity with up to three devices at a time, with seamless switching between them.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sennheiser Momentum True Wireless 3 Great audio in noise-canceling earbuds Superb sound Comfy, secure fit Wireless charging Wear sensors Customizable controls IPX4 water resistance No Bluetooth multipoint No side-tone/transparency for calls ANC isn't very effective Mediocre call quality While Sennheiser has embraced earbud technology like ANC, its specialty has always been incredible sound, and the Momentum 3 has some of the best audio we’ve ever heard in earbuds. There are also many important updates here compared to the second-gen model, including a sleeker design, support for AptX Adaptive Bluetooth – and a significantly lower price to make them more competitive with similar options.
So, the sound is superb. Now let’s talk about that ANC: Sennheiser uses an interesting hybrid ANC model that offers active noise cancellation, an anti-wind setting, and a transparency mode for hearing environmental sounds. That’s a solid offering, but the efficacy doesn’t get close to ANC from brands like Apple or Sony. Choose these buds for the Sennheiser sound experience, not the best noise cancellation in the world.
Other important features include IPX4 water resistance, as well as wear sensors to automatically shut off the earbuds and save on battery life (something we’d like to see become more common). There’s also a full-featured Smart Control app that lets you customize touch controls, set Sound Zones based on your location, and make EQ adjustments. This is a fine pick if your priority is excellent sound over other earbud features.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Soundcore Liberty 4 NC Best affordable noise-canceling earbuds Thoughtful design Great sound Impressive noise-canceling Very good call quality Superb battery life Bluetooth Multipoint Mediocre transparency mode If $100 is your sweet spot for how much you'd be willing to pay for a pair of noise canceling earbuds,then stop looking now and just get the Soundcore Liberty 4 NC. Not only are they comfortable for long-term wear, but their IPX4 water-resistance rating makes them great for sweaty workouts and the odd water balloon fight.
Having said that, though, should you find yourself in an H2O battle, you're going to want to put the Liberty 4 NC into transparency mode so you can hear the chaos around you (and keep yourself from getting drenched), because the adaptive ANC in these earbuds is so good it somehow rivals that of the $250 AirPods Pro 2 for a fraction of the price. With presets for various sound environments and a manual slider so you can just do it yourself, the Liberty 4 NC makes our list for good reason.
But even if ANC isn't your prime concern, there's plenty more to like here, including excellent call quality and "a more robust and better-balanced sound signature, especially in the mid-bass and bass," than their predecessors. If you're an Android user, they also support hi-res LDAC audio for those who subscribe to higher-quality streaming services such as Apple Music , Tidal , or Qobuz.
Battery life on the Liberty 4 NC is pretty solid, too, with up to 8 hours on a charge with ANC on and 40 hours total with the charging case. These numbers creep up to 10/50 with ANC off, and a quick 10-minute charge will add up to four hours of non-ANC play. Not bad for $100.
Frequently Asked Questions Noise-canceling earbuds are in-ear audio products that utilize a number of internal microphones and inverted noise waves to pick up ambient sound and cancel out the most externally distracting frequencies, leaving you with crystal-clear audio without the background noise of bustling cities, airplane engines, and more.
That depends on your preferred listening experience. Headphones typically provide a cushioned barrier between your ears and the music/content streaming into your canals. Additionally, if you spend your days predominately in one space, headphones may be ideal for all-day comfort. If you find yourself constantly on the go or can't stand the bulk of a set of headphones, earbuds are certainly a more minimalist alternative. While a bit more intrusive to your ear canals, earbuds are easy to travel with, simpler to recharge, and provide equal listening experiences to some of the best-quality headphones available today.
While the best earbuds are designed for comfort in most body and ear positions (standing, sitting, lying, etc.), it's especially important to regulate the volume level of your buds while you're asleep. Loud music through earbuds can cause damage to several parts of the ear , especially when buds are in place over several hours. That being said, earbuds are routinely used to help restless sleepers with white noise apps, relaxing music, and other calming audio sources.
Yes, because of their isolation and because the drivers are closer to your eardrums, it is not recommended to listen at higher volumes for extended periods of time.
Many are water-resistant; few can be fully submerged. We recommend checking for an IP rating if you want to make sure you are treating them properly.
Yes, at the high end, in-ear monitors can sound as good as virtually any headphones on the market. That said, you’ll have to pay a hefty premium to get top-tier sound.
Comfortably and securely. A good fit is essential to getting the best sound quality from any set of earbuds. If the eartips that come with your earbuds don't provide a good fit, Amazon carries plenty of third-party eartips that can help. You may want to find a pair with earfins or earclips if you are planning on working out.
No. It is dangerous and illegal in many places.
Yes. Today's top earbuds often come with two options. You can either turn ANC off altogether, or you can switch to a transparency mode, which lets a certain degree of sound filter through (how much depends on the specific technology). Either allows you to hear environmental cues that may be important for safety or convenience.
Noise cancellation technology can have many forms. Active noise cancellation refers to what we described above, with mics picking up nearby sound waves and canceling them out. Environmental noise cancellation is commonly used to refer to reducing background sounds when you are on a call so mics can pick you up clearly. Passive noise cancellation typically refers to the design of the earbuds themselves and how capable they are at blocking noise via their materials. A combination of methods typically works best, as seen with our top Sony WF-1000XM4 pick.
We test headphones and earbuds the way normal people live.
We run every pair of earbuds through a rigorous process over several days. That includes playing them in all sorts of scenarios — be it on a bus, in the listening room, or at the office — and playing back from a wide array of sources. We know most people use their headphones with a smartphone, often with lower-quality MP3 resolution tracks, so we test that, too.
However, we also move up to high-resolution audio files, as well as a wide variety of sources, including plugging in directly to a PC or Mac, using USB DACs (digital-to-analog converters), and employing high-quality dedicated portable players and amplifiers. Finally, we compare the earbuds to some of our go-to models, both in their class and price point, as well as a level or two above to find out if they can punch above their weight.
Glossary Driver : The unit that produces sound in a headphone, made up of magnets, voice coils, and other materials. Typically, the larger the driver, the more power a headphone has, and generally bigger drivers in in-ear headphones indicate a better range of frequencies can be reproduced.
Dynamic driver : A single driver capable of covering the entire frequency range. The diaphragm is connected directly to a voice coil in the headphone, with the voice coil moving between magnets to produce sound.
Balance armature driver : In a balanced armature driver, the headphone’s diaphragm is connected to the armature, with micro-vibrations producing the sound. Most balanced armature drivers are best within a specific frequency range, which is why many headphones contain multiple balanced drivers, with certain frequencies divided between drivers for full-spectrum sound. If you see a model advertised as a "triple-driver" or "quad-driver," it's likely referring to multiple balance armatures.
Soundstage : The perceived size and depth of the sound coming through the headphones.
Passive noise isolation : Noise that is blocked out by the headphone based on its physical shape and size in your ear.
Active noise cancellation (ANC) : A technology that blocks outside sounds by producing sound waves that are the exact opposite in terms of frequency and amplitude, thereby "canceling" the unwanted sound before it reaches your eardrum.
Frequency response : The spectrum of frequencies that a headphone can reliably reproduce.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Black Friday headphone and earbud deals now Beats Black Friday deals: Save on wireless headphones and earbuds Best Sony headphone and earbud Black Friday deals — from $10 Wow! Walmart just discounted these Sony earbuds from $98 to $29 Best headphones for running for 2023: JLab, JBL, Shokz, and more Best Products Headphones Audio / Video Not every pair of headphones or earbuds has to cost over $200. The fact of the matter is that many of us simply can’t afford the lofty prices that brands like Bose, Sony, and Apple demand. But if your cans or buds cost less than $100, you’ll still be able to enjoy some amazing sound and features. You just need to know what brands to look at, which is where we come in.
We’ve compiled a list of the best cheap earbuds and headphones that come in way under the flagship prices of those top-shelf brands, while still delivering features like exceptional sound quality, active noise cancellation, great battery life, and comfortable designs.
Audio / Video Kid-friendly consumer tech is all the rage these days, so it’s no surprise that there’s an entire market of headphones designed exclusively for our young ones. But when we think “kid-friendly,” sometimes we imagine products that are built to be a bit more throwaway than the adult counterparts. That’s not the case with our list of the best headphones for kids, though.
We want our child-tailored headphones to include parental-controlled volume limiters, to ensure our children aren’t harming their eardrums. Pretty much every entry on our list checks this vital box, but we also wanted to point you and yours toward products that offer exceptional noise-cancelling, built-in mics for phone and video calls, as well as long-lasting batteries for schooldays or a long flight.
Audio / Video The Sony WHCH720N, a popular pair of noise-canceling wireless headphones because of their relatively affordable price, are currently available for even cheaper than usual as part of Best Buy's early Black Friday deals. From $150, they're down to $100 after a $50 discount that we're sure won't last until the shopping event. It's unclear if you'll get another chance at this offer once it expires, so if you're already looking forward to using these noise-canceling headphones, it's highly recommended that you complete the transaction before the day ends.
Why you should buy the Sony WHCH720N noise-canceling headphones While the Sony WHCH720N won't match up to the Sony WH-1000XM5 -- which hold the top spot in our list of the best headphones -- in terms of features and performance, but they're still proving to be a pretty popular choice. Their active noise cancellation uses dual noise sensor technology and Sony's Integrated Processor V1 to stop you from getting disturbed by external sound, but they also offer an adjustable Ambient Sound mode with 20 levels so you can dictate how much to let in from your surroundings.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
