Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best noise-canceling headphones of 2023: Bose, Sony, and more By Derek Malcolm , Simon Cohen and Tyler Lacoma Close Noise-canceling headphones are a wonder of the modern world. No, seriously, the tech that makes them work is borderline magical, bringing much-needed quiet to our everyday bus and plane rides, study and work sessions, and movie, music, and podcast enjoyment. The best noise canceling headphones have a great mix of features, including that all-important ANC, transparency mode for letting in some outside sounds, comfort, battery life, and, of course, price.
While active noise cancellation has been around for a while now and it's almost standard in headphones from over-ear models (our focus here) to earbuds , the feature is better in some types of devices than in others. Whatever your listening needs may be, though, we've got you covered.
But as far as the best pair of noise canceling headphones goes, we've recently awarded the top spot to the new Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones that have arrived on the scene with ANC that rivals the best from Sony and Apple. These new cans offer some innovative ANC and transparency features, support for hi-res audio, and some excellent spatial audio capabilities.
And if the QC Ultra Headphones aren't right for you, we've put together this extensive list of excellent alternatives. They all cancel noise, but each pair has its own specific strengths.
More More More More More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones The best noise-canceling headphones overall Premium materials and design Excellent comfort Best-in-class noise canceling Natural-sounding transparency Impressive spatial audio Hi-res compatibility Tricky volume control ANC can't be turned off Until very recently, the flagship Sony WH-1000XM5 (and its predecessor, the XM4) have occupied the top spot in our best ANC headphones list. But Bose is back, baby, with its redesigned flagship ANC headphones, the new QuietComfort Ultra. A replacement for the Bose Noise Canceling Headphones 700 , the QC Ultra is a return to form for Bose, which, among other improvements, has gone back to the popular dual flat-folding format and has also included some nice premium aluminum and soft synthetic leather in the headband. Luxe as they are, you came here for the ANC, so let's talk about that.
To quote Simon Cohen's review : "The QC Ultra cancel noise more effectively than the Apple AirPods Max and the Sony WH-1000XM5 ... when it comes to wireless headphones, the QC Ultra Headphones are the current king of quiet." That's some high praise. The QC Ultras do a great job at blocking out all the things you need them to, such as noisy offices, city streets, and transit noise. And new for the Ultra are easier-to-use controls and the ability to create your own ANC "Modes" that you can favorite and easily toggle between, instead of having to cycle through the limited preset favorites that the NCH 700 forced you to. Your Modes can also include Bose's transparency mode, which not only rivals that of the AirPods Max in terms of sound, but adds a new "Active Sense" feature that automatically detects loud noises and turns on ANC to keep your ears safe.
Sound quality on the QC Ultra has improved, too, with Bose making the decision to dial back what many NCH 700 users complained was too much sparkle in the highs. The Ultras are a bit more low-end heavy as well, making for a bigger, fuller sound out of the box. And they're Bose headphones, so you know they sound great, but should you want to fine-tune them to your exact liking, the Bose Music app has miles of EQ. Oh, then there's the new format support for Qualcomm's aptX Adaptive, which, if you have an Android phone, can deliver lossy hi-res audio at up to 24-bit/96kHz or lossless CD-quality audio at 16-bit/48kHz for those of you with subscriptions to hi-res services like Tidal, Apple Music, or Qobuz. The QC Ultra also now supports spatial audio tracks like Dolby Atmos Music , but they also have their own "Immersive Audio" virtual spatial audio feature that can take any stereo track and create a simulated 3D sound.
For all the details and play-by-play on the QC Ultra, you should read Cohen's full review, but we'll wrap up by mentioning the QC Ultra's excellent call quality and support for Bluetooth Multipoint connectivity, as well as their battery life, which sits at 24 hours on a charge (18 hours with immersive audio). A 15-minute quick charge will net you 2.5 hours of playtime (2 hours in immersive mode). Welcome back, champ.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sony WH-1000XM5 Sony's latest flagship is still killing it Excellent sound Very good comfort Ultra-clear call quality Best-in-class noise canceling Very good battery life Hi-res compatible (wired/wireless) Hands-free voice assistant access Classy, modern design Fold-flat, but don’t fold up Running a close second to the Bose QuietComfort Ultra is noting to sniff at, and to be perfectly clear, you absolutely cannot go wrong with a pair of Sony WH-1000MM5s wrapped around your ear holes; their ANC is still among the best in the world.
Improving upon the previous generation's WH-1000XM4 in more ways than one, we were amazed to find out that there even could be improvements made. But the powers at Sony had a few more tricks up their sleeves.
For starters, the XM5 are cozier to wear, thanks to an improved cushioning system and better weight distribution from cup to cup. In terms of actual audio, interestingly, the XM5 speaker drivers are 25% smaller than the ones found in the XM4, featuring 30mm carbon-fiber-based transducers that make listening to any music genre an absolute joy.
And let's not forget the power of the XM5's active noise cancelation (ANC). Utilizing eight microphones and two onboard audio processors, the XM5 are constantly listening and adapting to whatever environment you're in, delivering the very best noise cancelation on the market.
Factoring in its Sony-exclusive LDAC lossless listening for Android devices (sorry, Apple fans), modest battery life, and a bevy of additional must-haves, it's easy to see why we can't stop raving about the Sony WH-1000XM5.
More Best Black Friday soundbar deals: Save on Samsung, Bose, and more Best Sony headphone and earbud Black Friday deals — from $10 Best headphones for running for 2023: JLab, JBL, Shokz, and more Riley Young / Digital Trends Sony WH-1000XM4 A little older, but still fantastic Very comfortable Excellent sound quality Excellent noise canceling Very good call quality Very good battery life Bluetooth multi-device pairing Handy, customizable features No aptX or aptX HD While the WH-1000XM5 may be Sony's latest and greatest headphone option, the WH-1000XM4 still holds up well as an alternative pick with a slightly lower price but many of the same excellent benefits.
In terms of battery life, the WH-1000XM4 deliver up to 30 hours with active noise cancellation on and 38 hours without. The XM4 also use advanced software algorithms and hardware when it comes to active noise cancellation, powerful tools that essentially eliminate any distracting environmental noise.
Like the XM5s, the XM4s also include Bluetooth multipoint connection , allowing them to be connected to two different devices at the same time. Essentially, you could be watching Netflix on your laptop, field a phone call on your mobile device, then effortlessly return to your streaming enjoyment.
The XM4 also features a wear sensor to automatically pause content when you remove the headphones, as well as Sony's music upscaling tech, DSEE Extreme.
If you're looking for a way to silence the outside world so you can be left alone to enjoy your favorite music, we highly recommend the Sony WH-1000XM4 as well as its newer upgrade. If you want to compare a similar noise-canceling option that's not from Sony, you could also take a look at the Bose QuietComfort 45.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Bowers & Wilkins Px8 The most extravagant noise-canceling headphones Beautifully designed and built Incredibly comfortable Great sound quality Decent noise cancellation Expensive Not ideal for calls in noisy places The Px8 offers an interesting proposition for those with deep wallets: Pay about twice as much as other high-end headphones cost, and get a unique, luxurious experience that includes incredible wireless audio and effective noise cancellation.
Of course, at this price, you also get a comfortable design with massive ear cushions, leather padding, and aluminum notes that combine for a durable, beautiful fit that can last for hours without any discomfort. And the Carbon Cone drivers put in the work to deliver exceptional sound, with support for Bluetooth aptX Adaptive wireless tech for the best possible wireless experience (just keep in mind that iPhones don’t support aptX yet).
Battery life is also quite good for headphones this size, lasting up to 30 hours on a single charge. Are all these features combined worth the super-high price tag? That’s up to you to decide, but these headphones look amazing while delivering the high-end audio experience you’d expect, so style points can count for a lot. And if you like these and are willing to drop a little extra cash, check out the McLaren Edition version of the Px8s that Bowers & Wilkins created in collaboration with the supercar maker.
More Zeke Jones/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless The best for battery life Amazing battery life Outstanding sound Effective wind noise reduction Comfortable Effective ANC No auto-off function Sennheiser may not collect the same fanfare as other titan headphone names, but when it comes to craftsmanship and performance, there's no doubt that your listening experience is going to be stellar when you invest in a set of Sennheisers, and the Momentum 4 Wireless are no exception.
Comfortable to wear and rocking only one button for all of your Bluetooth headphone needs (play/pause, answering calls, and adjusting noise-cancelation settings), the Momentum 4 comes out on top in two major categories — sound quality and battery life.
In terms of the former, you can expect to hear all kinds of details in songs you may have heard a million times over. This is thanks to Sennheiser's dedication to giving its listeners the most complete soundstage possible. Mids and highs are on point, with plenty of articulation and next to no distortion, and the bass is some of the best low-end we've heard from any set of headphones.
Now, are you ready for the crowning laurel? The Momentum 4 Wireless is rated for up to 60 hours of battery, and that's with active noise-cancelation enabled. This beats the Sony XM5 and Bose QC Ultra by a long shot, and frankly, competitive brands should use the Momentum 4 Wireless battery specs as a benchmark for future product designs.
Riley Young/Digital Trends Apple AirPods Max The best for Apple users Best-in-class ANC Amazing transparency mode Excellent build quality Excellent sound quality Top-notch call quality Charges via Lightning cable Heavy on head Apple has been on a roll when it comes to personal audio. The second-generation AirPods Pro have finally landed, and so far have been another hit for their true wireless earbuds lineup. But for Apple fans who still prefer next-level over-ear cans, the AirPods Max (a stunningly beautiful — and expensive — set of over-ear ANC headphones) are still the way to go — or at least until the next generation of the AirPods Max comer along.
Their design, with aluminum-covered earcups, a weight-distributing mesh headband, and some of the most intuitive controls we've ever used, is truly exceptional. We can't say enough about the build quality, which puts most other high-end wireless cans to shame.
As Caleb Denison covers in his excellent review of the AirPods Max , sound quality is close, but not quite on par with the Sony WH-1000XM4s, but what really blew us away was the AirPods Max's noise-cancellation, transparency mode , and call quality — each of which is better than the Bose Noise Canceling Headphones 700, and that's saying something given how good the Bose are.
You could use the AirPods Max with non-Apple devices, but to do so would be an unfortunate waste of the AirPods Max's talents. They pair instantly with devices such as iPhones and Macs and can switch between them in a snap. The spatial audio feature that's compatible with both 1st- and 2nd-gen AirPods Pro, the Beats Fit Pro, and the AirPods 3 is amazing in the AirPods Max and can now be experienced with various iPhones, iPads, M1 or M2 Macs, Apple TV 4K, and more.
They're not perfect — we think their heavy weight will prevent people from wanting to wear them for long listening sessions, and their included protective case has rightfully become the object of ridicule for its non-existent protection. And then, of course, there's the price.
Still, if you're an Apple fan with money to invest in personal audio, you likely won't find a better set of active noise-canceling headphones than the AirPods Max.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Bose QuietComfort 45 Best for comfort and quiet Super comfortable Very good noise canceling Very good sound quality Can connect to multiple devices No wear detection No EQ adjustments It's right there in the name. These iconic noise canceling headphones from Bose are both incredibly quiet and super comfortable. Few audio gear makers do ANC like Bose, whose founder Amar Bose invented the noise cancellation that we know today in 1989. Bose is still a leader in the tech, with the QC 45s being the company's flagship.
The Bose QC 45s deliver excellent sound quality, with Digital Trend's resident headphone expert, Simon Cohen, praising their "Bose sound" as having a nice balance of frequencies: "Bass is never absent from the formula, but nor does it trample its way through songs like an elephant wearing combat boots. And at the high end, there’s this extra hit of energy, a brightness that teeters on the edge of being sharp, but never makes you flinch," Cohen writes.
And, of course, the ANC is world class, supplying the headphones with the perfect, clear silence that they're known for, even if they don't have the fancy features like the Sony WH-1000XM4 's speech detection that automatically activates transparency mode (Bose calls it Aware mode) when you start talking.
Similarly to their cousin, the Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 , the QC 45s are great headphones for making phone calls , and Bluetooth multipoint makes connecting to two devices simultaneously a breeze for your work or study day.
Battery life on the QuietComfort 45s is a decent 22 hours on a charge with ANC on, they fully charge up in just 2.5 hours, and a quick 15-minute zap can net you up to three hours of use.
Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends 1More SonoFlow The best budget noise-canceling headphones Great sound quality Very comfortable for long periods Ridiculous battery life Solid ANC performance Great app support Affordable price No wear sensors Wired mode disables extra features Noise cancellation technology has finally become affordable enough to find in some excellent budget headphones, and the SonoFlow is a near-perfect example that combines affordable ANC with great sound. You’re not giving up much at all while saving a lot of money compared to picks from Apple or Sony.
The 1More SonoFlow includes important features like support for high-res audio, an in-depth app with plenty of EQ customization options, and ANC that includes a transparency mode. The battery life is particularly incredible, offering up to 50 hours with ANC turned on, something that even high-end headphones would struggle to achieve.
There are a couple of small drawbacks, like the lack of a wear sensor for automatic turn-off, but these are very mild features to give up when you’re getting some much at such an excellent price.
Sony Sony WH-XB910N Extra Bass Best for bass Excellent bass sound 30-hour battery life In-app EQ control Support for LDAC, AAC, SBC codecs ANC is good, not great Touch controls can be finicky If you're all about that bass in a pair of noise-canceling headphones, then look no further. In the most Captain Obvious way possible, Sony's marketing team either just gave up or had a moment of clarity when naming the WH-XB910N: Extra Bass is what they're called, and extra bass is definitely what you get. And that's a good thing.
With a look similar to the company's popular (and older) WH-1000XM4 but $100 cheaper, the WH-XB910Ns look great and deliver the expected extra bass with authority, rumble, and clarity, as well as punchy mids and clear highs. But as you'd expect from a set of cans labelled as such, if the bass is too much for you the accompanying Sony Headphones Connect app offers a ton of EQing options to dial it back with sliders and loads of presets based on different music types. Support for AAC and SBC audio codecs are great, but Sony's own hi-res LDAC audio codec lets you enjoy higher quality 24-bit audio, too.
Noise canceling on the WH-XB910N is decent, too, and features Sony's Adaptive Sound Control that modifies itself to the ambient noise of your surroundings. What's more is that they learn the locations you visit over time for a more tailored experience. Speaking of detailed experiences, the WH-XB910N also support Sony's object-based spatial audio technology for immersive surround sound.
Outside of the audio features, professional folks will also like these cans for their Bluetooth multipoint connectivity for connecting to two devices simultaneously (like your computer and phone when you need to seamlessly switch to take a call), but they also support Fast Pair and Swift Pair for easy connection with Android and Windows 10 devices.
The Sony WH-XB910Ns boast solid battery life at up to 30 hours per charge with a quick charge feature that can net 4.5 hours of listening time after 10 minutes on the charge cable.
More Edifier Edifier WH950NB Great for battery life 55-hour battery life Effective ANC with ambient mode Excellent, balanced sound A little lacking in bass Edifier makes some fantastic headphones, and the WH950NB are proof positive of that, offering a solid all-round set of ANC cans for under $200.
The WH950NBs perform well and are consistently forgiving of all kinds of music, delivering realistic, full, and balanced sound signature from their 40 millimetre drivers. Android users will enjoy support for the LDAC Bluetooth codec means listeners will also benefit from their ability to play hi-res audio. But otherwise the WH950NBs only support the standard SBC codec (sorry, so AAC or aptX, folks). The Edifier Connect app's EQing options include two presets, Classic and Dynamic, as well as the option to create a custom EQ. There are also Music, Theatre, and Game-specific modes, the later of which offers a low 80-milisecond latency for fast-action gaming.
Looks like we've buried the lede here — the Edifier WH950NB boast the longest lasting battery life on our list with up to 35 hours per charge with ANC on and an impressive 55 hours with it off. Speaking of which, the noise cancellation of these headphones does the job well, and while not top-shelf like Sony or Bose headphones, for the price they effectively block out everything from background noise on the streets and low rumble from long flights. There are five ANC settings to choose from, however, including High Noise Cancellation, Low Noise Cancellation, Wind Reduction, Ambient Sound, and Noise Cancellation Off.
The Edifier WH950NBs, like others on our list, also offer Bluetooth multipoint connectivity and Google Fast Pair for Android users. Lastly, if you're concerned about your hearing , the WH950NBs offer a maximum volume limitation of 85dB that you can activate in the app to keep your ears safe.
Image used with permission by copyright holder PuroQuiet On-Ear The best noise-canceling headphones for kids Built-in volume limiter 16 hours of battery life Flexible and durable Lacks the features of more advanced headphones OK sound quality It can be tough to find decent-quality headphones for kids even before you start looking for a feature like noise cancellation. Fortunately, the Puro PuroQuiet are both a great set of wireless kids headphones, and as a bonus, they've got noise-canceling too. But the best part for parents is that they come equipped with a software limiter that keeps the volume at or below 85dB, which is considered the maximum volume that children should be exposed to for prolonged periods (we don't want them growing up needing OTC hearing aids , now do we?).
With 16 hours of battery life, it's unlikely your kid will outlast these headphones, but if they do, there's always the option of using an analog cable instead. We're frankly surprised more kids' headphones don't offer noise canceling. If the goal is to keep the volume at a safe level, eliminating unwanted outside noise means you can get the same sound quality at lower volumes than without this feature. It feels like a match made in child-parent heaven, something that doesn't come along very often! You'll also appreciate that while not exactly cheap, given that the PuroQuiets have a very solid construction that will withstand at least some of the abuse kids can inflict, the Puro PuroQuiet are very reasonably priced for what they offer. We think your kids' ears are worth it.
Frequently Asked Questions They use exterior microphones to capture the sound around you. They then reproduce matching frequencies with the phase inverted to cancel ambient noise. Check out our full explainer on active noise cancelation , too.
Keep in mind, ANC (active noise cancellation) is very different from passive noise cancellation. Passive noise cancellation refers to the construction of the headphones, made with materials and fit to block out noise. ANC uses mics and generates matching feedback, which is much more effective at removing consistent background sounds.
If you plan on listening in noisy environments, absolutely. That could include busy traffic nearby, the rumbling of the train or subway you take, loud chattering in a cafe, or just the whine of an unexpectedly noisy radiator.
Not usually. Earplugs can typically do a better job of blocking out noise, but they don’t have the benefit of being able to play audio.
Yes, noise-canceling headphones will reduce outside noise without music playing, but things will almost always seem quieter when music is playing over the top.
We test headphones the way normal people live.
We run every pair of headphones through a rigorous process over several days. That includes playing them in all sorts of scenarios — be it on a bus, in the listening room, or at the office — and playing back from a wide array of sources. We know most people use their headphones with a smartphone, often with lower-quality MP3 resolution tracks, so we do too.
However, we also move up to high-resolution audio files, as well as a wide variety of sources, including plugging in directly to a PC or Mac, using USB DACs (digital-to-analog converters), and employing high-quality dedicated portable players and amplifiers. Finally, we compare the headphones to some of our go-to models, both in their class and price point, as well as a level or two above to find out if they can punch above their weight.
Transparency mode —which goes by several different names from brand to brand, such as social mode, world volume, and hear-through — works with the headphones' ANC mics, to allow some outside noise in, rather than blocking it. It's very handy when you want to be aware of the sounds around you, like listening for someone who may be calling out your name, or to an upcoming subway stop, or to a child crying, for example.
Any type of loud music or noise cancellation is going to make you less aware of your surroundings, so it's important to remember that that could cause some problems. That being said, noise cancellation isn't particularly dangerous: Loud, sudden sounds can still get through, and you can always switch to the transparency mode when you need to pay attention to what's going on around you.
Yes, ANC modes will drain the headphone battery faster. How much faster depends on the model, but you can expect the battery life to be around 1/3 shorter than without ANC. If you're worried about it impacting battery times, look for battery ratings with ANC turned on. We typically list any differences in our headphone reviews.
Editors' Recommendations The best bone conduction headphones for 2023 Sony Black Friday deals: PS5, TVs, headphones, soundbars, and more These noise-canceling headphones discounted from $135 to $49 Best cheap headphones and earbuds 2023: Jabra, 1More, and others Best Sony headphone deals: Save on top headphones and earbuds Best Products Headphones Sony Audio / Video Kid-friendly consumer tech is all the rage these days, so it’s no surprise that there’s an entire market of headphones designed exclusively for our young ones. But when we think “kid-friendly,” sometimes we imagine products that are built to be a bit more throwaway than the adult counterparts. That’s not the case with our list of the best headphones for kids, though.
We want our child-tailored headphones to include parental-controlled volume limiters, to ensure our children aren’t harming their eardrums. Pretty much every entry on our list checks this vital box, but we also wanted to point you and yours toward products that offer exceptional noise-cancelling, built-in mics for phone and video calls, as well as long-lasting batteries for schooldays or a long flight.
Audio / Video The Sony WHCH720N, a popular pair of noise-canceling wireless headphones because of their relatively affordable price, are currently available for even cheaper than usual as part of Best Buy's early Black Friday deals. From $150, they're down to $100 after a $50 discount that we're sure won't last until the shopping event. It's unclear if you'll get another chance at this offer once it expires, so if you're already looking forward to using these noise-canceling headphones, it's highly recommended that you complete the transaction before the day ends.
Why you should buy the Sony WHCH720N noise-canceling headphones While the Sony WHCH720N won't match up to the Sony WH-1000XM5 -- which hold the top spot in our list of the best headphones -- in terms of features and performance, but they're still proving to be a pretty popular choice. Their active noise cancellation uses dual noise sensor technology and Sony's Integrated Processor V1 to stop you from getting disturbed by external sound, but they also offer an adjustable Ambient Sound mode with 20 levels so you can dictate how much to let in from your surroundings.
Audio / Video Headphone deals are looking super sweet right now at Amazon, including this massive $150 discount on the Beats Studio Pro. Only released a few months ago, the Beats Studio Pro look great and sound good too. If you want some seriously stylish cans for less, keep reading while we tell you what else they offer for the price.
Why you should buy the Beats Studio Pro We were impressed by the ever so slick Beats design that the Beats Studio Pro offered when we reviewed them earlier this year. With a comfy and secure fit, they provide clear and balanced sound with lossless USB audio as an option. Via Beats' custom acoustic platform, you get rich and immersive sound with a choice of two distinct listening modes. These include a fully-adaptive Active Noise Cancelling mode along with a Transparency mode for when you want to listen to your surrounding environment. Lossless audio also offers three distinct built-in sound profiles to help you get things sounding just how you like them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
