Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best headphones for swimming in 2023 By Derek Malcolm and Michael Bizzaco Close Going for a swim is one of the best ways to cool down and get your cardio in, and for avid swimmers out there, adding music to the proceedings is a must. But just because a pair of wireless earbuds or headphones is waterproof, it doesn't mean they're necessarily suited for swimming. They way it stands right now, Bluetooth signals do not travel well under water, especially if your device is situated poolside. For that reason, the best headphones for swimming on this list include wired models, those that have their own internal storage for loading them with music files, a pair with a unique radio transmitter, and one Bluetooth pair that works with an Apple Watch that you take in the pool with you.
Some of these models are from familiar audio brands, and while they may not be the pinnacle of sound underwater (which can be difficult), these are headphones and earbuds that, above all else, are going to withstand your laps in the pool. But we’re not content with just satisfying the basics, so each and every pick on our list is also going to sound good enough to motivate your swim and give you the kind of battery life you need for all your diving and dunking needs. Let's check them out.
More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Sony NW-WS623 Walkman The best overall headphones for swimming Built-in MPS capabilities so you don't have to rely on Bluetooth Up to 16GB of memory 12-hour battery life Can be used as traditional wireless headphones, too Need to take the time to choose and load your playlists beforehand Getting a workout in on the best of days can be a challenge, so the less preparing and tinkering you have to do to get in the water, the better. With minimal setup, you’ll be ready to get wet in no time with Sony’s NW-WS623s, which combine the MP3 player — Sony’s Walkman brand, no less — and in-ear headphones in one compact, complete unit. Music, podcasts, and audiobooks are easily side-loaded from your computer via an included USB cable, and the WS623s are available in 4GB and 16GB variations, which means plenty of audio content for even the longest swim session ... and you don't have to worry about dropping a Bluetooth connection.
Like any pair of waterproof headphones you choose, the seal the earbud makes is paramount, as it helps ensure the buds stay firmly in your ears while swimming and has a big effect on how good the music sounds by blocking outside noise. The Sony WS623s get checkmarks in both of these areas. The included eartips create a firm seal, and around-the-ear hooks and the comfortable neck strap help further stabilize the headphones while in the water. The sound is surprisingly clean — with ample low-end and defined mids and highs — which is difficult to achieve underwater, and the controls are easily accessible on the outside of each earpiece.
Speaking of water, the WS623s have it where it counts here, too. Their IPX5/8 waterproof rating certifies them for use in fresh or saltwater to a depth of up to 2 meters (6.5 feet), and their IP6X rating makes them dustproof, too, in case you want to transition to a run on the beach. Battery life is impressive, with the WS623s getting up to 12 hours on a single charge, topping all others on our list. And for those times when you forget to charge up, just plug them in for a three-minute quick charge for an hour of playback.
We chose the Sony NW-WS623 as the best overall headphones for swimmers because they’re great in the water, but they’re also stellar on land or in the gym. Bluetooth connectivity brings your phone into the mix, opening the door to streaming playlists and taking calls, while an ambient sound mode lets outside sound in, allowing you to easily hear the encouraging yells of your spin class instructor.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Pyle Flextreme Sports Earbuds V2 The best budget wearable MP3 player for swimming Affordable Above-average sound underwater Comfortable design Only supports MP3 and WMA Diving into the deep end when it comes to waterproof headphones can be a risky and expensive endeavor, so we picked the Pyle Flextremes because, for under $50, you can’t really go wrong. Even without the bells and whistles of the aforementioned Sonys, the Flextreme V2 stands up nicely with the single-unit convenience. With an IPX8 waterproof rating, they match more expensive headphones on our list and can withstand submersion in up to 2 meters of water. A 10-hour battery comes by way of a less-than-standard two hours of charging time and no quick-charge feature. But that won’t matter when you’re swimming laps or flutter-kicking to the beat of your favorite workout tunes -- 8GB worth, in fact.
For a budget pair of headphones , you’d expect the sound quality of the Flextremes to be lacking, but you’d be wrong. With three water-blocking eartip sizes ensuring a water-tight seal, the underwater sound of the Flextremes is well above average, especially when it comes to mids and highs both in and outside the water. Even podcasts come through loud and clear. One downside, however, is that the Flextremes only list file support for MP3 and WMA formats, meaning they don’t with AAC or M4A formats, so Apple users may want to convert before uploading.
The Pyle Flextremes are comfortable and have an adjustable band that can be configured to wrap around your neck or head. They jut out slightly more than other models on our list, but you can easily tuck them under a swimming cap or goggle straps for more rigorous pool sessions. All in all, for the price, you’d be hard-pressed to find a better pair of swim-worthy earphones.
More All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now The best early Black Friday headphone and earbud deals now The best bone conduction headphones for 2023 Image used with permission by copyright holder Underwater Audio Swimbuds Sports The best wired earbuds for swimming Dual-chamber audio for better sound 11 total eartips to choose from for underwater fit Low-drag design Requires a waterproof MP3 player Underwater Audio has developed a reputation for making highly-rated, great-sounding, and durable earbuds for swimmers — and the Swimbuds Sport helped put the company on the map. When looking for a pair of underwater headphones, it’s often a toss-up between fit and sound quality, but with the Swimbuds Sports, you don’t have to sacrifice one for the other. Each earbud housing includes a dual-chamber design that helps focus sound while also providing additional waterproofing. The result is a pair of earbuds with an underwater sound that’s balanced, clear, and robust ... and beats any on our list.
When it comes to fit, this is the pair of headphones you want if you’re a more advanced swimmer practicing a variety of strokes and wall flips. The Swimbuds Sport are made for this, offering four different styles of eartips (three specifically for swimming) and 11 tips in total. In short, if you’ve had a hard time finding a good, comfortable seal in the past, chances are you’ll find your match with the Swimbuds Sport. You'll even have several options if you want to use them out of the pool as well.
Of course, it’s key to mention that you’ll have to pick up a waterproof MP3 player to use with the Swimbud Sports, but there’s a wide range of those; Underwater Audio has some good options if you want to keep it in the family. The short and unobtrusive headphone cord is easily tucked under a bathing cap, connecting to an MP3 player, which is typically secured to the goggle strap mounted on the back of your head. The Swimbuds Sport are IPX8-certified, submersible in up to 10 feet of water, and come with an extension cord for use outside the pool.
More Tayogo Tayogo Waterproof Bone Conduction Headphones The best bone-conduction headphones for swimming Keeps your ears clear Integrated MP3 Strong format support FM tuner Limited five-hour battery life Bone-conduction headphones aren't new — some impressive models enter the market each year — but they're often overlooked. One of the basic benefits of bone conduction is that your ears can stay unobstructed so you can still experience what’s going on around you. How? Through conduction pads situated on your cheekbones, which send sound to your inner ear as vibrations through the bones in your face instead of through your ear canal. The result is surprisingly crisp, bass-rich, and clear sound, especially underwater. If you’re someone who finds wearing earbuds or earplugs while swimming uncomfortable or even painful, then bone conduction is something you should consider — they’re also beneficial for people with hearing issues.
As an integrated MP3 player-headphone option for swimmers, the Tayogo Waterproof Bone Conduction Headphones have more features than most models on our list. Waterproof in up to 3 meters, you’ll have no issues in the pool, although you may want to steer clear of choppy ocean waters as the fit may not be as firm as earbuds such as the Swimbud Sports. You won’t need a separate MP3 player, as the Tayogo is an MP3 player with 8GB of storage and support for MP3, WMA, APE, FLAC, and WAV codecs. They also sport five hours of battery life, which isn’t great, but if your swim lasts that long, you’ve likely got other problems.
Additionally, the Tayogo Waterproof Bone Conduction Headphones are the only pair of headphones on our list that are built to withstand temperatures of 140-degree Fahrenheit, meaning you can keep the tunes going while in the steam room after your swim. Out of the pool, the Tayogos will serve you well, too, with Bluetooth pairing and an FM radio.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Underwater Audio Hydroactive Premium The best neckband headphones for swimming Banded design wraps around ears to withstand any swimming movement 11 eartip options Multiple protection chambers Headphone cord is short and requires MP3 player Similar to their cousins, the Swimbuds Sport, we chose the Hydroactives partly because of their great underwater sound, sleek and compact design, and 11 eartip options, which ensure a water-tight fit for everyone. They come with four different styles, and the company even outlines suggestions for which tips are best for swimming and water sports.
But where the extra $30 shows its worth is in the banded design, which keeps a low profile as it wraps around the contours of your ears, then hugs the back of your neck. The angle of the eartips in the ear canals create a comfortable and tight seal, while the added support of the neckband secures the headset for a fit unlike any other earbuds on our list. Add the additional stabilization of a swimming cap and goggles, and the Hydroactives will withstand dive starts, backstrokes, flip turns, waves, kayak flips, and more.
As with all of Underwater Audio’s waterproof headphones, the Swimbuds Hydroactive have an IPX8 rating and can be submerged in water up to 10 feet for however long you want. A short, 3.5mm headphone cord plugs into whatever MP3 player you choose and will stay out of your way in the water.
More Shokz Shokz OpenSwim The best high-end bone-conduction option Excellent bone-condution design Kit includes nose clip and earplugs Spacious onboard storage for playlists Battery life is a bit short We covered many of the benefits of bone-conduction headphones when talking about the Tayogo pick, but there’s another bone-conduction option if you’re willing to spend a bit more to get a better suite of features. That includes not only the headphones themselves but a companion nose clip and matching earplugs.
Shokz has years of experience with bone conduction that pay off with this wraparound titanium frame. It also made room for internal music storage that can hold up to 1,200 songs, easily enough to contain all your favorite swimming playlists and more. The IP68 waterproofing means submerging the headphones is no problem, either. And the headphones were designed to fit up swim caps and helmets, weighing just less than an ounce.
We do wish battery life could be better — eight hours is fine for a good workout session or two but you’ll need to recharge frequently — but overall, if you already know you like bone conduction and want to upgrade to one of the best options, the OpenSwim is a good pick.
H20 Audio H20 Audio Interval Swimming Earbuds The best for Apple Watch users IPX8-rated Comfortable fit Good battery life Includes goggle loop for attaching Apple Watch Works with My Swim Tracker app Requires the Apple Watch A truly unique alternative for Apple Watch owners, the H20 Audio Interval are designed around the idea of your Apple Watch becoming an aquatic commander. Once attached to the Interval’s wearable housing, just pop both wired earbuds in and start playing your favorite music and podcasts. The Interval includes volume up and down adjustments, and the rechargeable battery should give you up to seven hours of swim time (according to H20 Audio).
We’re also big fans of the fact that because the Bluetooth connection is so close (it doesn't have to travel through the water to your poolside phone, for example), you’ll be able to play music from whatever streaming apps you have downloaded to your Apple Watch. The Interval is also quite exceptional when it comes to overall sound quality and fit. Built from the ground up to be optimized for deeper bodies of water, the buds provide a good seal and less drag when you’re swimming. And as far as audio goes, the earbuds use sound-isolating tech and bass amplification to give you as much soundstaging as one can get when submerged in a pool.
You’ll also get multiple sets of eartips to ensure you get the best fit possible for the shape of your head and ear canals. While you’ll definitely need an Apple Watch to use this product, those rocking this awesome wearable are in for a treat.
More Zygo Zygo Solo Underwater Streaming Headset Underwater streaming and live coaching A great blend of Bluetooth and radio frequency tech Good sound quality Solid fit Great companion app Expensive Headset battery life could be better The Zygo Underwater Streaming Audio is the kind of “eureka” product that swimmers the world over have been waiting some time for. One of the biggest nuisances of trying to listen to audio when you’re in the water is how poorly Bluetooth performs in and around H20 (it usually doesn't work at all). This is why the Zygo headset comes with a transmitter that your phone pairs to with Bluetooth. The transmitter then converts that signal to radio frequencies that can be transmitted underwater to your headset! In lieu of traditional earbuds, the Zygo also opts for bone conduction for all your music-listening needs, and will work with any music-streaming app on your phone. The headset itself also fits comfortably and should last for up to four hours on a single charge (the transmitter should last for eight hours). We also love the fact the transmitter can be used as a walkie-talkie. To do so, poolside friends or trainers simply press the push-to-talk button on the headset to start shouting motivational slogans at you while you swim (or to watch out for that shark).
Last but not least, you’ll also be able to download the Zygo app (for iOS and Android devices), which gives you access to hundreds of swimming workouts set to music. We won’t beat around the bush: this headset is super-expensive. But if you’re looking for a premium solution to enjoying your favorite playlists while backstroking, look no further.
Frequently Asked Questions Depending on what’s more important to you (sound, fit, ease of use), a pair of standalone earbuds will broaden the choices available to you, allowing you to cater to your specific preferences. But you’ll also need to get a separate waterproof MP3 player, which means more money, though it also means you get to keep your headphones if your player breaks. Thankfully, there are several great hybrid units on the market. You can store music on them, and you don’t have to connect them to a separate device, making them a great grab-and-go option. You also won’t need to fuss with strapping them to your goggles, since most just wrap around your neck and you’re good to go.
Typically, most swimming headphones exist as a standalone unit or are wired (to a waterproof MP3 player). Because they’re wired, they’ll deliver the best sound possible. When we think of wireless, however, that usually means Bluetooth, but in the context of swimming headphones, Bluetooth doesn’t have a big stake yet because headphones with reliable Bluetooth signals underwater are currently hard to come by.
Around-the-neck headphones tend to stay on better, with additional support coming from the back of the head or neck. They also help prevent loss if your buds happen to slip off while swimming in open water.
A good seal can make all the difference. One, it helps protect your ears like earplugs do, keeping them safe from water getting in, which can cause infection. Second, the better the fit and seal, the better it will block outside noise, allowing for improved sound.
Water-resistant doesn’t mean waterproof. Water-resistant devices usually garner a rating of IPX3 to IPX4, meaning that they’ll probably be OK if you splash water on them or if they accidentally fall in the toilet. For swimming, you’re going to want a pair of buds with at least an IPX8 rating , especially if you’re swimming laps. While each manufacturer defines the depth and duration their products can go under this rating, IPX8 typically means the ability to be submerged in more than 1 meter of water for prolonged periods. Although they vary, most swimming headphones hover somewhere around the 2-meter to 4-meter range.
No. You can definitely find online guides to waterproof your headphones, but it won't work. Headphones that don't have the proper resistance rating will be ruined by water damage when submerged, no matter what you try to do to them.
It's a bad idea for a couple of reasons. First, most headphone ratings are only for submersion up to a certain number of meters/feet. Go beyond that, and you could risk damage. Second, your hearing is important when diving. You want to stay alert for nearby noises, communication with other divers, etc.
It probably won't hurt your headphones, but we suggest taking them off first. Soaps and shampoos aren't the best things to coat your headphones in, even if they are waterproof.
Editors' Recommendations A massive Sonos Black Friday sale just started at Best Buy Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Beats Black Friday deals: Save on wireless headphones and earbuds Best Black Friday soundbar deals: Save on Samsung, Bose, and more Best Products Headphones Health & Fitness Audio / Video Whenever people ask us for advice on which earbuds or headphones they should buy, perhaps the most important question we ask in return is "what are you going to use them for?" If the answer to that question is focused on exercising, sweating a lot, and perhaps doing both in situations where water might be a factor, then you've come to the right place with this list of the best waterproof wireless earbuds you can buy.
But first, let's set some ground rules: For this list, our focus is on wireless earbuds that achieve at least an IPX7 waterproof rating, which means that they're technically fully submersible in water for short periods of time, allowing you to hose them down after you sweat all over them (or accidentally drop them in the toilet) without worry. We've also taken into account other great features such as sound quality, active noise cancelation (ANC), and different designs like open-ear and earhooks. And, of course, we've looked at price.
Audio / Video The Roku streaming platform is a popular choice for smart TVs, whether as a built-in operating system or as add-on hardware. While its main purpose is to grant you access to all of the most popular streaming services like Netflix, Disney+, and Amazon Prime Video, it also enables voice commands for functions such as controlling playback and searching for shows and movies to watch, while also offering free content for you to consume. If you're interested in Roku, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals that will let you jump into the platform, but you need to hurry with your purchase because we're not sure how much time is remaining on these offers.
Best Roku TV Black Friday deals While some of the best TV brands use Roku for the operating system of their products, Roku has rolled out its own line of TVs. With resolutions ranging from HD to 4K Ultra HD, you'll be able to enjoy your favorite shows and movies with bright colors and sharp details, with prices that start from budget displays and going all the way up to premium screens. These TVs are also excellent for playing video games and accessing cable channels, and our recommendation is to go for the largest model that you can afford -- but consult our guide on what size TV to buy first to make sure that you have enough space.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals bring with them some fantastic discounts on highly sought after technology. That means if you've been waiting for a chance to treat yourself to a new Sennheiser soundbar or you're looking to buy some new headphones, this is your chance. We've narrowed things down and found all the best Sennheiser Black Friday offers going on right now. There are some seriously good soundbar deals and headphones deals available at the moment. Whether you're looking to kit out your home cinema with a better sound system or you want some new headphones to use on the move, you're in luck. We've got them all here.
Best Sennheiser Soundbar Black Friday deals Sennheiser makes some of the best soundbars around at the moment with the Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Plus a patiucalr highlight. When it comes to the ultra-premium best Dolby Atmos soundbars, this is the brand to strongly consider. Rarely cheap however, that's where Black Friday deals makes everything more palatable. Here's a look at the best Sennheiser Soundbar Black Friday deals that are around at the moment.
Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Plus -- Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
