Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 review Built for business, Bose’s latest noise-cancelers are your new frequent flyers By Caleb Denison Close $399.00 Excellent noise canceling Extremely comfortable Remarkable voice clarity for calls and voice assistants Connect to multiple devices at once USB-C brings convenient quick-charging Boost to lower treble comes off as harsh Requires Bose Music App to control many functions Since Sony bested Bose at its own game with its WH-1000XM3 , I’ve been eagerly awaiting an update to the Bose QC 35 II.
 Now, it’s here.
Out of the box Features and other goodies Noise canceling performance Sound quality Voice/call quality Warranty information Our Take When the Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 (henceforth referred to as “ Bose 700 ”) were announced, Bose played up better voice clarity for phone calls and interactions with voice assistants like Amazon’s Alexa and the Google Assistant. The company did not mention any changes to sound quality, but it turns out that was updated as well, and even a quick glance reveals a new physical design. Not readily apparent, however, is the addition of touch controls and extra functionality brought by Bose’s new Bose Music app.
Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more The best noise-canceling headphones of 2023: Bose, Sony, and more What is ANC and how do noise-cancelling headphones work? So, as it turns out, quite a bit about the Bose 700 is new. But are they a smart buy at $400, especially when the award-winning QC 35 II are still available for at least $50 less? We dug deep to figure out who might want the Bose 700 and who would be just fine sticking with the tried and true QC 35 II or other entries, like Sony’s popular 1000XM3.
Out of the box Straight out of the box you can see Bose made some design changes. The Bose 700 case is much shallower than we see from most competitors, which will help the case slide more easily into airline seat pockets for in-flight storage.
The slim form factor is owed to a slightly broader case which allows the headphones to be stored simply by turning the earcups inward and laying them flat – no complex folding technique required. Inside the protective case is a stealthily hidden compartment sealed with a magnetic flap. Lift the flap and you’ll find a headphone cable and short USB-C charging cable. Bose has ditch ed the increasingly unnecessary airline adapter for this iteration.
The Bose 700 take a different approach to design, most notable in the way the earcups are affixed to the headband. Rather than continue the yoke-style mount which has allowed prior models a generous amount of both pivot and tilt, the 700 are attached directly to the inside track of the headband at the outside of the earcup. There’s less adjustment potential, but I’ve found that not to be a problem for my headsize or shape – the Bose 700 feel great to me.
The comfort factor seems to be something of a debate among reviewers. I’ve seen others claim the Bose 700 aren’t as light or comfortable as the Bose QC 35 II , but by the numbers, they are actually 2 ounces lighter (8.9 to 10.9 ounces respectively).
You don ’t need a scale to feel they are lighter, either. Pick up a pair with each hand and you can feel the difference.
You don’t need a scale to feel they are lighter.
The difference in weight is less stark when worn, but comfort has always relied heavily on weight distribution. When the right balance of clamping force meets an amply wide and well-padded headband, a slightly heavier headphone can actually feel more comfortable than a marginally lighter option. Still, as I remarked earlier, the 700 are indeed lighter and I feel they offer the perfect weight distribution. The headband is a little squishier – if not covered in luxurious fabric – and the earcups are a little larger in circumference, placing the clamping force well around the ears rather than on them.
Of course, this is just a description of my experience. Varying head sizes and shapes along with different ear sizes will all play a role in how the headphones feel, so my suggestion is that you go give the headphones a try yourself and determine whether they feel like an improvement in comfort or a step backward.
Features and other goodies Along with physical design changes, Bose integrated new controls for the 700. Play/pause, track advance/reverse, and volume controls are all managed via a touchpad located on the right earcup. Only three physical buttons will be found; one button on the left adjusts noise canceling intensity at levels 0, 5, and 10 with an additional option to disable noise canceling and simultaneously pause music. Two buttons on the right offer controls for power/Bluetooth pairing and calling up the voice assistant of your choice, including Alexa , the Google Assistant , and even Cortana on windows machines.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Then there’s the matter of the new Bose Music app. Typically, I don’t bother with companion apps as they rarely add value to the experience, but in this case, I’m suggest that anyone who purchases the Bose 700 should download the app, available for iOS and Android.
 The Bose Music app allows users to pair the headphones to their phone (which can be done just as easily without the app), rename their headphones whatever they like (Bose’s suggested names are hilarious. Thunder Flash, anyone?), exert granular control over noise-canceling effectiveness from 0 to 10, and manage paired devices.
The app also lets you manage all your music services from one place and save favorite playlists as convenient presets for one-touch access. And if you own other connected Bose products, this app will allow you to manage music playback through soundbars and wireless speakers individually or in groups.
There’s no better headphones for taking phone calls.
Like the Bose QC 35 II and Bose Frames Alto, the Bose 700 work with Bose AR, an interesting audio-based take on augmented reality. Using certain AR-enabled apps and an iOS device with location data turned on, users can enjoy experiences like enhanced directions from the Walc app, which instead of telling you to turn right in .2 miles might instead tell you to turn right at the Walgreens. Or, if you’re seeking some amusing adventure while on your walk to work or home, try Komrad AR, a game which makes you a secret agent who is the only thing standing in the way of an evil computer seeking global domination. It sounds kind of gimmicky, but I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t looking forward to trying Bose AR.
Finally, a word on battery performance. With quick charging, the Bose 700 can play for 2 – 2.5 hours on a 15 minute charge. Total play time with noise canceling on is roughly 20 hours, and without noise canceling turned on, that number goes up to 40.
Noise canceling performance As you might expect, the Bose 700 are excellent noise cancelers, but what you might not expect is that the noise canceling effectiveness is slightly different than what is offered with the QC 35 II. What I noticed is that the 700 seem to cancel out more of the static high-frequency sounds than prior models. I can see this working well for air travel in that it will cancel more of the hiss you hear from a plane’s ventilation system.
However, I also noticed that more mid-range frequencies were getting through than I’m used to from Bose noise-canceling headphones. I haven’t had a chance to test the 700 on a flight yet – I had to use a noise machine and real-life noises for this evaluation – but I am hopping on a plane soon and will update this review accordingly. For now, I’m willing to say I expect the 700 will improve on what is already a formidable noise canceling technology for air travel, but for everyday use around the office or commuting on a bus or a train, I think I would prefer the QC 35 II.
S ound quality Frankly, I was not expecting the changes Bose made here. The 700 have a very obvious boost in the upper mid-range and lower treble regions which makes them sound very detailed with more laid back tracks, but when you get a bunch of cymbals or brass going, they become a little aggressive – some might even say harsh. I do want to note that the 700 feel more spacious and exacting with audio placement – watching movies with these headphones is a blast – but the audiophile in me can’t ignore that, for everyday use, the 700 don’t sound nearly as good as the Sony WH-1000XM3 or the Bose QC 35 II.
With all of that said, I suspect the Bose 700 will sound outstanding while traveling on an airplane. The forward presentation in the high end will help cut through any noise the cans can’t cancel, adding clarity to dialogue in movies and instrumentation and vocals within music. The more I listen to these headphones, the more I am convinced they were optimized for air travel.
Voice/call quality Simply put: There’s no better headphones for taking phone calls or interacting with digital voice assistants. Bose’s mic technology does a remarkable job of canceling out background noise to delivered a clean, clear, and very close-sounding voice quality to those on the other end of the call. In fact, there’s a good chance the Bose 700 sound better than your phone’s built-in microphone.
For anyone who takes a lot of calls with their phone, this single feature should be compelling enough to urge a purchase.
Warranty information Bose offers a baseline standard 1-year warranty on the Noise Cancelling Headphones 700, however this can fluctuate depending on product and region.
Visit this page to learn more about Bose’s warranty on a product-by-product and regional basis.
Our Take Is there a better alternative? For the audiophile who must have the best sound possible in noisy environments, I prefer the Sony WH-1000XM3. They offer superior overall audio quality. For the most effective noise canceling while flying and anyone who values headphones for phone calls and working with voice assistants over all other considerations, the 700 are the way to go.
The Bose QC 35 II are still a solid choice, and now sometimes available for less than $300. That’s a great deal, though the upgrades on the Bose 700 are worth paying extra if you can manage it.
How long will it last? Time will tell, but the Bose 700 seems as well constructed as any of the company’s previous headphone models and so far they have held up well under my stress tests, leading me to believe these headphones will last as long as the battery does.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you are a businessperson who takes lots of phone calls with their headphones on, and/or you do a lot of airplane travel, then absolutely buy the Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 – they will be worth the $50 upgrade.
Editors' Recommendations Your next noise-canceling earbuds may use Navy sonar tech Best headphones for 2023: Sony, Bose, Apple, and more The best wireless headphones for 2023 from Bose, Sony, 1More and more Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Best Bose 700 Headphone deals: Save $80 at Best Buy Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video The AirPods Max are fantastic headphones -- but they're expensive. Apple knocked it out of the park with their first foray into over-the-ear headphones, but they slapped a classic Apple price tag on them. With rumors of the AirPods Max 2 brewing, the price of the first generation has shrunk a bit at most retailers. Whether you're looking for a new pair fresh out of the box, or you don't mind a refurbished model, we have AirPods Max deals for you that will save you some serious cash.
AirPods Max -- $479, were $549 The AirPods Max are Apple's first attempt at a set of over-the-ear headphones. They got a lot of things right. We love these headphones, even when compared against some audiophile options that prioritize sound quality. The AirPods Max have awesome noise cancelling. Everything Apple learned with the earbud-style AirPods works even better with the cup style of the AirPods Max. Along with great ANC comes a great transparency mode. With a twist of the Max's massive knob, you'll go from complete silence to feeling like you're not wearing headphones at all. The audio on phone calls is great as well, and they pair better with the iPhone than any non-Apple headphones could ever hope to.
Audio / Video Buying new headphones or wireless earbuds shouldn't have to be a scary experience -- if you're overwhelmed by all of the headphone deals that are out there, we're here to help you out. We've gathered the top choices and the biggest bargains right here, so you don't have to look anywhere else. Once you've chosen the audio accessory that you want to purchase, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the transaction because these discounts aren't going to last forever.
Today's best headphone deals Audio-Technica SQ1TW -- $28, was $79 For very cheap wireless earbuds, go for the Audio-Technica SQ1TW. They're compact and comfortable to wear, but they don't sacrifice audio quality with their 5.8mm driver. They can last up to 6.5 hours on a single charge and an additional 13 hours with their charging case. The wireless earbuds come with waterproof design equivalent to an IPX4 rating, and they can connect to Android devices using Fast Pair technology for your convenience.
Audio / Video Sennheiser's new Accentum wireless noise-canceling headphones look a lot like its top-of-the-line $380 Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless headphones. And while they have similar features, the Accentum are priced at $180 and can do something the Momentum 4 can't: they accept lossless digital audio via their USB-C port. The black version is up for preorder on September 25 and is expected to ship starting on October 4, while the white version begins shipping in late November. Both models will be available at select retailers and at sennheiser-hearing.com.
The Accentum are the successors to Sennheiser's 2020 HD 450 BT, and the company's approach to this more affordable product line remains the same -- preserve as many features from the Momentum line as possible while keeping the price under $200. Needless to say, you can't do this without some trade-offs. The Accentum don't come with a carry case or any kind of analog input. They use only physical controls, not touch controls, and they don't have wear sensors for auto-pausing your tunes when you remove them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
