Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Bowers & Wilkins Px8 review: pure headphone luxury By Simon Cohen Close $699.00 Beautifully designed and built Incredibly comfortable Great sound quality Decent noise cancellation Expensive Not ideal for calls in noisy places Look, I agree with you. $699 — oh c’mon, who am I kidding, $700 — is a lot to pay for a set of wireless headphones , even if they are the Px8 , the new flagship of the Bowers & Wilkins (B&W) personal audio lineup. The truth is once you start to head north of $400, the improvements to sound quality start to taper off and it becomes more about design, materials, and — in a sense — the whole “premium-ness” of the experience.
Design Accessories and controls ANC and wireless options Sound quality Call quality and battery life But if that’s what you seek — a set of wireless headphones that epitomize sophistication, performance, and class — the B&W Px8 will wrap your head in luxury.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Design The Px8 initially were set to sell for $549. That’s still pricey by most standards, but only $150 more than the $399 B&W Px7 S2, a set of wireless headphones that share a ton of DNA with the Px8. That would have put them on par with the Apple AirPods Max , within spitting distance of the $599 Master & Dynamic MW75 , and made them considerably more affordable than the $800 Focal Bathys and $899 Bang & Olufsen Beoplay H95.
The best noise-canceling headphones of 2023: Bose, Sony, and more Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Sennheiser’s new budget-friendly headphones get a very high-end feature But as bad luck (or the economy) would have it, B&W says it goofed on its original pricing , and here we are. Despite teasing us with that lower price, the fact is that when you pull the Px8 from their protective travel case, they look and feel like a truly high-end product. The fit and finish are sublime. From the supple leather on the headband and ear cushions to the perfectly smooth polish of the aluminum sliders and pivots, the Px8 are a feast for the senses.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends They manage to be both lightweight yet substantial-feeling — an incredibly difficult balancing act when it comes to headphones. They’re a scant 10 grams heavier than the Px7 S2, but worth it: when you put the Px8 on your head, it’s like coming home. I know from previous experience with the PX7 and Px7 S2 that B&W’s cans are a great match for my noggin, but neither of those headphones feel as good as the Px8. I hate to say it, but real leather makes a real difference.
They squeeze just enough to stay firmly in place, while the ear cushions effortlessly dissipate the pressure. Even with glasses, they’re incredibly comfortable. For really long sessions, I think the Sony WH-1000XM5 are still a better choice. But the XM5’s all-plastic construction is simply not in the same league as the Px8.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Accessories and controls I don’t want to come off as sounding petty, but given the price B&W charges for the Px8, it could have been a bit more generous in the accessories department. The competition typically ships with both analog and digital cables, plus a variety of adapters, like USB-A-to-USB-C, 3.5mm-to-¼-inch, and even an airplane adapter. But B&W only includes the two cables.
From a controls perspective, the Px8 are identical to the Px7 S2, which is to say that the basics are all there. In addition to automatic play/pause thanks to built-in wear sensors, the physical buttons give you playback, volume, track skipping, and call management. They could still do with further refinement: the main multifunction button can be a bit tricky to identify from its two companion volume buttons (despite its textured finish), and the convenience button on the other earcup makes you choose between switching active noise cancellation (ANC) modes and being able to summon your phone’s voice assistant. If you choose ANC, you’re forced to toggle through ANC, transparency, and off modes, instead of being able to select from just two modes.
ANC and wireless options ANC is another area where there’s no benefit to spending the extra $300 over the Px7 S2. It definitely will take the edge off a wide variety of sounds, from traffic to noisy restaurant chatter, but don’t expect the impressive degree of dampening offered by the Sony XM5, Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 , or Apple’s AirPods Max. Transparency mode fares better, with a genuinely clear audio window to the outside world.
The best way to experience the Px8 wirelessly is to pair them with an aptX Adaptive- or aptX HD-compatible phone. Sadly, the iPhone is not among that list of devices, and it also can’t take advantage of the Px8’s direct-digital USB-C connection for truly lossless 24-bit audio. Apple folks will need to buy a DAC/amp dongle and use the included 3.5mm-to-USB cable to get an equivalent level of quality.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sound quality Whichever way you go, you’ll be treated to superb sound — the Px8 sound great. Clarity, with precision, is the overriding theme, and these cans deliver that across all frequencies while placing you in the middle of an open and immersive soundstage. Out of the box, I found myself wanting a bit more oomph to both the highs and lows. But a few adjustments to the B&W Music app’s bass and treble sliders were all I needed to find my preferred signature.
You may be wondering if the Px8 outperform the more affordable Px7 S2 — after all, they look very similar. It’s a fair question, especially given the effort B&W says it has put into the Px8 through the inclusion of newly developed, full-range, angled 40mm carbon drivers mated to magnets and voice coil motors designed specifically for these headphones.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The verdict? I’ve got good news and bad news. The good: the Px8 are, without a doubt, the best-sounding B&W cans you can buy. The bad (or maybe good too?): the improvements over the Px7 S2 are subtle. I had to spend a good deal of time with each set of cans, paying very close attention how they render a variety of tracks, to figure out where those improvements lie.
After setting the Px7 S2 and Px8 to the same 60% volume, and the same bass and treble adjustments, I swapped back and forth between them over the course of my favorite test tracks and a playlist provided by B&W within the Bowers & Wilkins Music app. The Px8 are a bit clearer through the upper registers, their soundstage is a tad more defined, and there’s a small improvement in how open they sound. I’m guessing most folks will notice the Px8’s bass — it’s punchier and more resonant.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends But don’t go into a head-to-head listening session and expect these enhancements to jump out at you. In fact, it wasn’t until I used the USB-C digital audio connection to a PC that I really started to appreciate what the Px8 bring to the table. If you’re listening casually (and wirelessly) — say, while commuting — there’s a real chance you won’t be able to hear these improvements at all.
Those carbon drivers are supposed to be notable for their ultra-low distortion, but I pushed both headphones to volume levels that were downright painful, and which I cannot recommend to anyone for more than a few seconds. I’ll be damned if I could hear more distortion from the Px7 S2 than on the Px8, even as Wolf Alice performed The Last Man On Earth , a track that contains a combination of soaring female vocals and powerful instrumentation — and which would normally reveal these nuances.
On the one hand, that’s not what you would expect from a set of headphones that cost 75% more than their siblings. But then again, the Px7 S2 are among the best-sounding wireless cans you can buy, so at the very least, the same is just a bit more true for the Px8. The Px8 are superior. But 75% superior? No, definitely not.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Call quality and battery life You won’t find any significant improvements in call quality. In fact, after listening to my test recordings from the Px7 S2 and Px8, it’s remarkable just how similar the voice quality is. Both introduce the same kind of compression and distortion when trying to compensate for competing loud sounds like traffic, and both offer excellent quality when you’re in a quiet environment. In other words, the Px8 are going to be at their best when on Teams or Zoom, or phone calls indoors, where things aren’t too loud around you. They will be a lot less effective when walking on busy streets with lots of traffic.
Battery life on the Px8 is good at a claimed 30 hours, which ends up being closer to 28, depending on how loud you’re listening and whether you’re using ANC a lot. If you’re worried about stamina, the Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless may not be as luxe as the Px8, but with a stunning 60 hours of power, they’ll outlast almost anything else. Still, should the Px8 start to flounder, bringing them back to life takes only a few minutes — you’ll score up to seven hours of extra playing time after just 15 minutes of plug time.
I still think that $699 is a lot to pay for a set of wireless headphones, even ones that sound as good as the Px8. But B&W manages to justify that price by delivering a set of cans that will delight your senses of sight and touch too. And for some folks, that will be worth every penny.
Editors' Recommendations Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more What is ANC and how do noise-cancelling headphones work? Best Bose 700 Headphone deals: Save $80 at Best Buy Bose revamps QuietComfort headphones and earbuds with lossless, hi-res, and spatial audio Best wireless earbuds for 2023: Sony, Bose, Soundcore, and more Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video As the Barenaked Ladies famously sang, it's been one week. One week since Digital Trends and the rest of the techno-review world published the first reviews of the Sony WF-1000XM5 wireless noise-canceling earbuds. Or at least, these were supposed to be the first reviews. As it turned out -- and at first unbeknownst to any of these publications -- Sony didn't send out full production versions of the XM5. Though they looked exactly like the earbuds that you can buy today, they were unfinalized prototypes. We were clear about that at the time, and we want to be as transparent about things now.
Once Sony confirmed we'd initially been given prototype units, we published a sort of placeholder review that was heavily caveated to explain the situation to readers. One week later, Sony sent out full production XM5 units, and we've since updated our review with our final thoughts using production units — the same as what you can buy today. (Spoiler: The production units solved all the problems we saw with the prototypes.) Audio / Video Sony has released a software update for its flagship noise-canceling headphones, the WH-1000XM5, that enables head-tracked spatial audio -- a feature the company first debuted this week on its new WF-1000XM5 wireless earbuds.
The update also includes an enhancement of how Bluetooth Multipoint works on these wireless headphones. Previously, you had to choose between connecting two devices to the XM5 simultaneously or being able to use the company's LDAC hi-res Bluetooth codec. Turning on one of these features would automatically disable the other. Now, you can leave LDAC enabled and take advantage of simultaneous connections, even if one of the devices isn't LDAC-capable (like an iPhone).
Audio / Video While most of the attention these days is on true wireless earbuds, it's easy to forget that some folks much prefer the older neckband style for its simple convenience and longer battery life. Beyerdynamic clearly hasn't forgotten. Despite launching its first true wireless earbuds in 2022 -- the Free Byrd -- the company is continuing to develop its original Blue Byrd neckband-style buds with the introduction of the second-gen Blue Byrd ANC ($149).
As the name suggests, the new earbuds have active noise cancellation (ANC), a feature that remains fairly rare in the neckband earbuds category. You can buy them now from Beyerdynamic or Amazon.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
