Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features A deafening epidemic: The rise of noise-induced hearing loss, and how to stop it By Simon Cohen Close I’m sure I’m not the first person to warn you about the dangers of loud noises. Our ears are remarkably sensitive organs and they can suffer permanent damage after a surprisingly short exposure to sounds in excess of 100 decibels (dB). It’s why people who routinely work with heavy machinery wear hearing protection.
Start young Headphone design matters Sound quality matters Consider active noise cancellation Setting levels A “too loud” rule of thumb But for everyone else who simply goes about their lives doing normal things like listening to music, the threat of hearing damage seems like a faraway risk, not something that needs to be guarded against. And that’s exactly wrong.
Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) is a slow-moving epidemic. The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) estimates that more than 40 million (about 12%) of American adults ages 20-69 have some kind of hearing loss.
 Half of these people don’t experience any loud sounds at work.
Here are some volume-limiting headphones your kids might actually wear Qualcomm’s latest chips aim to radically improve noise cancellation Marshall blends serenity with rock ‘n’ roll in the noise-canceling Monitor II ANC What makes NIHL so insidious is that it’s almost impossible to detect in its early stages. Because it’s cumulative, repeated loud sound exposure chips away at your ability to perceive the full range of audible frequencies. Like cancer, by the time you become aware that there’s a problem, the damage has already been done. Unlike some cancers, there is no treatment that can restore lost hearing. When it’s gone, it’s gone forever.
Fortunately, with advances in technology and greater awareness of the threat, NIHL can be reduced or eliminated completely. Here are your best defenses against NIHL.
Start young Tom Odulate/Getty Images As an adult, you’ve probably been exposed to the kinds of loud sounds that cause hearing loss. Hopefully, it’s not severe and you can focus on preventing it from getting worse over time. But if you’re a parent or caregiver, it’s vital that you protect your kids’ hearing from the get-go. Think of it as an investment in their future health, like immunizations and regular visits to the doctor or dentist.
Vigilance between the ages of 1-16 can ensure that they start their adult lives with the best hearing possible.
Headphone design matters Headphones that create a tight seal against our heads or ears are great for blocking out unwanted sounds, but they can also pose a risk, says Lise Henningsen, audiology lead at Widex.
 “They have the benefit of that full, immersive sound experience,” Henningsen told Digital Trends, “but they also put the full force of the sound pressure level delivered by the headphones into the ear canal.” This leads to a double-edged sword situation. Good isolation of unwanted sounds means we don’t have to pump up the volume as high to hear our audio, but it also means the majority of that volume is being absorbed directly by our ears instead of leaking out the sides of the headphones.
Sound quality matters If you’ve ever wondered whether or not a more expensive set of headphones can be justified purely on the basis of their sound quality, Henningsen says the answer is yes. “The higher the quality of the headset, the better.” It turns out that lower-quality headphones have a tendency to introduce distortion and often suffer from poor frequency response. These two attributes can cause dangerous peaks in high frequencies, which is the root cause of most cases of NIHL.
When our music sounds muddy or scratchy, we sometimes respond by increasing the volume to compensate — a vicious circle that simultaneously leads to a worsening of the distortion and an increased risk of dangerous sound levels.
“The higher the quality of the headset, the better.” But not everyone can afford to just drop a big pile of cash to get an awesome set of headphones, and even very expensive cans aren’t perfect.
Dirac Research is one company that is trying to address the quality shortcomings of headphones by providing customized precompensation filters, which effectively clean up the sound you hear before you hear it.
“We focus on enhancing the sound experience, making the sound quality as good as possible,” Nilo Casimiro Ericsson, Dirac Research head of product management for mobile, told Digital Trends. “I think that’s key to not having to increase the volume. So if you’re in a noisy environment or if you have crappy headphones or the connection is bad, you may try to compensate for that by increasing the volume.” Image used with permission by copyright holder Dirac’s system is now being incorporated into the chipsets of wireless headphones and earbuds. I tried an early version of the Dirac system, which required the Dirac app to be loaded on a smartphone or PC, and worked exclusively with the specific headphone models that Dirac has in its database. It definitely altered the sound of the music I heard, but I’m not convinced that it helped to reduce the need for volume.
Consider active noise cancellation One of the biggest reasons we pump up the volume on our headphones is to overcome competing sounds that leak through to our ears. A really tight seal on a set of in-ear earbuds or headphones can help by providing passive noise isolation, but if you want to give yourself a really quiet starting point for your tunes, active noise cancellation (ANC) can be a big advantage.
By creating sound waves that are tuned to be the exact inverse of incoming sounds, ANC neutralizes those competing noises. Just like with sound quality, there tends to be a price-to-quality relationship with ANC. In our experience, the best ANC headphones start at around $200.
Setting levels Research has shown that 85 decibels (dB) is the safe limit for exposure to sound over a prolonged period. Increasingly, headphone and personal audio companies are making efforts to help their customers stay within this safety zone.
Apple, for instance, includes a way to track and regulate headphone audio levels in iOS 14.
 You can set a maximum dB threshold of anywhere from 75 dB to 100 dB, and the app will show you detailed stats for volume levels and length of exposure. It’s most accurate when used with headphones made by Apple or Beats by Dre, but the app can use volume settings to estimate the exposure of other wired and wireless headphones.
Newer Android devices come with a similar volume-limiting option, but there’s no way to see your exposure levels tracked over time.
In an ideal world, all headphones and earbuds would have built-in circuitry that could prevent this 85 dB threshold from being exceeded. Some already do, like Puro Sound Lab’s headphones for adults and kids.
A “too loud” rule of thumb It would be great if we could simply hand over responsibility for volume exposure to our devices and forget all about it, but the technology simply isn’t there yet. Instead, Henningsen says we should employ a simple test when listening to headphones.
“The right level of your headphones is a level where you can actually hear me when I speak to you at a moderate level while you’re listening,” she said, “because if you can’t hear me at a normal distance while I walk up to you and start talking to you — if you can’t hear a word I’m saying — then those headphones are too loud.” Henningsen has passed this advice on to her own teenage sons, who gave her a predictable response: “Mom, you’ve got to be kidding me. I need louder music.” About the only thing you can say to that is, yes, of course, you like it loud. But if you listen to that loud music for a long period of time, there will be consequences.
Editors' Recommendations Should you buy Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 on Black Friday 2021? Apple’s over-ear AirPods Max noise-canceling headphones cost an eye-watering $549 All-day battery life and ANC are about to become standard true wireless features Klipsch’s $1,000 noise-canceling wireless buds open CES 2020 with a bang 1More’s true wireless ANC earbuds are a preview of what’s coming to CES 2020 Features Headphones Audio / Video Though it won't come as much of a surprise to those who follow the true wireless earbuds space, a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) document confirms that Sennheiser's follow-up to its superb Momentum true wireless earbuds will be called the Momentum 2, and they'll come with active noise-canceling (ANC) built-in.
It wasn't hard to come to this conclusion. The FCC document is comprised of two pages from Sennheiser's user manual for the Momentum 2, the follow-up to the company's impressive Momentum True Wireless earbuds. Page 2 indicates how to use the touch controls for the earbuds, and the smoking gun is the ANC feature that you apparently toggle on and off with a triple-tap on the right earbud.
Audio / Video Over the past several years, Sony has become a big player in the world of noise-canceling headphones, with its WH-1000XM3 over-ears easily ranking as our favorite pair of headphones ever since its launch. Today, the company has announced it will take a shrink ray to that tech, putting their acclaimed noise-canceling chip inside a brand new pair of true wireless earbuds, the WF-1000XM3 (we know, confusing name).
The new headphones are packed with compelling features, including six hours of battery life with noise-canceling on (eight hours with it off) and a 24-hour charging case, and touch controls. Like Sony's bigger over-ear model, you can touch the left earbud to quickly pipe in some ambient sound from the outside world, making it so you don't have to remove a headphone to hear an announcement or have a quick conversation with a flight attendant.
Audio / Video Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
