Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews PuroPro headphones review: Safe and sound wireless ANC cans By Simon Cohen Close $200.00 Very comfortable Very good sound quality Healthy volume limiting Good battery life Mediocre ANC No multidevice pairing No quick-charging What do you look for when buying new wireless headphones ? What’s in the box? Design Battery life Controls and usability Sound quality Volume-limiting Noise-canceling Call quality Our take Great sound? Obviously. Long battery life? Yes, please. Active noise canceling (ANC)? Well, sure. I mean it’s 2020, isn’t it? What about hearing protection? What is ANC and how do noise-cancelling headphones work? KEF takes a swing at Bose, Sony, and Sennheiser with its first wireless ANC headphones NuraTrue Pro hands-on review: A sneak peek at the lossless future of wireless audio Say what? Exactly.
Since its inception, Puro Sound Labs has been laser-focused on one idea: Preventing noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) by designing headphones that automatically limit their maximum volume to safe levels.
The company has justifiably received props for its child-oriented Puro headphones , but now it has its sights set on a very different market: Those looking for a high-performance set of wireless ANC headphones.
Can its $200 PuroPro deliver all the bells and whistles we are used to, while simultaneously caring for our overworked ears? Let’s find out.
What’s in the box? Previous Next 1 4 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Before we discuss what’s in the box, let’s take a moment and appreciate the box itself. Made from what I assume is balsa wood, it’s incredibly lightweight and it handily deals with the question of what to do with the headphones’ packaging: Simply reuse it any way you like.
It’s quite handsome, and even though it’s clearly not going to take much abuse, it could be a handy spot for keeping charging cables, USB sticks, or any number of other digital accessories that have taken over our lives.
In that box, you’ll find the PuroPro, nestled in their hard-shell carry case, along with a Micro USB charging cable and a volume-limiting analog cable. Other than the cardboard sleeve that wraps the wood box, the PuroPro is completely devoid of materials that need to be discarded or recycled.
Design Previous Next 1 6 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends One look at the PuroPro and you know exactly what inspired their design. They’re dead ringers for Sony’s WH-1000XM4 wireless headphones.
 That’s not a bad thing; if you’re going to copy someone, you may as well copy the best.
The similarity goes deeper than looks, though clad as they are in all matte black plastic, they really do look a lot alike. The slim, pivoting earcups are held in place with forks that blend seamlessly into the headband. These can rotate a full 45 degrees, which lets the earcups lie flat when around your neck, and they fold at the integrated hinges for easier storage.
The ear cushions are very plush and super-comfortable. But because they’re so well-padded, there’s a good bit of wiggle room. Move too quickly and you can feel the PuroPro shift on your head. Those with larger heads may not notice this as much, but my noggin was already on the headband’s smallest setting, so smaller-headed folks could find it problematic.
Still, as long as you’re not planning to use them for jogging, I wouldn’t worry about it. I certainly wouldn’t give up an ounce of their impressive comfort for more stability.
The fork swivels move with virtually no resistance, and though that sounds like a good thing, it reminds me of mechanisms on less expensive models — it’s the only thing that detracts from an otherwise premium design.
Battery life Simon Cohen / Digital Trends At 32 hours of claimed battery life with ANC turned off, and 28 with it turned on, the PuroPro are right up there with some of the best wireless ANC headphones. It’s around the same as the Sony WH-1000XM3 or XM4 and much better than the Bose Noise Canceling Headphones 700 , which only last 20 hours.
There’s no quick-charge option, something that virtually all headphones offer these days.
It takes two hours to fully charge them from empty, but strangely, there’s no quick-charge option, something that virtually all headphones offer these days.
Charging is handled via a Micro USB connection, which may mean — depending on your smartphone — you’ll need to carry two cables with you when traveling.
Controls and usability Simon Cohen / Digital Trends You won’t find any fancy touch controls on the PuroPro. Instead, you get a simple and easy-to-use set of physical buttons located on the underside of the right earcup.
It’s a fairly typical arrangement: A rocker button takes care of changing the volume and track-skipping functions, while the power button acts as a multifunctional control for power, play/pause, call answer/end, voice assistant access, and putting the headphones into Bluetooth pairing mode.
A third button is dedicated to letting you advance through the three ANC modes (two ANC levels plus an off mode).
Once you memorize the button press sequences, using the controls becomes effortless.
At only $200, you can’t expect the PuroPro to sport every feature that more expensive headphones offer, but there are two that I wish they had: A wear sensor, which some wireless headphones use to automatically pause the music when you remove them from your ear, and Bluetooth Multipoint, which means you can pair the headphones to two devices simultaneously, like a phone and a computer.
Sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Despite being headphones that intentionally cap volume levels, the PuroPro do an admirable job of preserving sound quality.
Their EQ is remarkably neutral, and it mostly avoids playing favorites with low, mid, or high frequencies. Bass is distinct but never overpowering, and both vocals and instruments get a chance to shine.
There’s warmth as well as definition, and though the PuroPro don’t place individual sounds around you with great precision, the soundstage itself is still pleasingly wide.
Their EQ is remarkably neutral, and it mostly avoids playing favorites with low, mid, or high frequencies.
In order to hear the PuroPro at their best, you need to engage the ANC function at level 1 at the least. Without ANC turned on, low-end sounds suddenly lose their power and the mids and highs veer unpleasantly upward. This has the effect of overemphasizing vocals, most noticeably with male tenor singers. On The Doors’ deeply haunting Riders On The Storm , Jim Morrison’s voice comes across as sharp, instead of smoky.
Thankfully, this bizarre ANC requirement doesn’t affect the PuroPro’s analog wired performance — you get the full range of sound quality even when they’re powered down.
Volume-limiting Other than just being a really decent set of wireless headphones , the PuroPro’s main attraction is its volume-limiting feature.
When using the headphones wirelessly, you can choose between the default setting of 85dB maximum loudness, or switch to the more liberal 95dB by holding down the volume up and down buttons for three seconds. If you use the included analog cable for wired listening, the volume is limited to 85dB.
Overall, the ANC function doesn’t live up to the term “noise cancellation” — it’s more like noise reduction.
You can always get around these restrictions by using your own headphone cable, but I strongly recommend sticking with them. If you’re used to having free reign over your volume levels, there’s a good chance you’re exceeding 85dB. I don’t think of myself as someone who routinely cranks up the volume, but I was nonetheless surprised when I hit the 85dB maximum — it’s quieter than I expected.
I consider this a good thing — it means that the PuroPro are giving me the opportunity to reset my listening habits to a healthier level. According to Puro Sound Labs, 85dB is the maximum safe sound listening level that is recommended by organizations such as the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ), and allows for up to 8 hours of safe listening.
Noise-canceling Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As I said above, having the PuroPro’s ANC turned on when listening wirelessly is a must if you want decent sound. But overall, the ANC function doesn’t live up to the term “noise cancellation” — it’s more like noise reduction.
At level 1, Puro Sound Labs says the ANC provides deep noise reduction of 32dB, while level 2 offers a more general noise reduction of 15dB.
Level 1 was able to reduce the sound of a nearby bathroom fan, but not by an amount that made it fade into the background. Level 2 sounded identical to me.
And while ANC performance is mediocre, neither levels 1 or 2 introduce unwanted hiss — a feature of poorly executed ANC — so at the very least, your music quality won’t be affected even if you can’t quite eliminate as many external sounds as you’d like.
Unlike some headphones with ANC, the PuroPro don’t have an ambient mode for piping external sounds in.
Call quality Call quality on the PuroPro tended to vary a lot, and it was hard to get a consistent result. Walking up and down a street with the occasional car going by proved easy for the headphones, with my caller sometimes not even noticing the passing vehicles. But, then, when I sat in a very quiet space in a garden, my caller noticed a decrease in call quality, with the microphones apparently picking up sounds that I wasn’t aware of.
I wouldn’t classify this performance as unusually bad, but as with many wireless headphones , call quality is not one of the PuroPro’s strengths.
Our take Though they’re not spectacular for noise cancellation, the PuroPro are a comfortable set of wireless headphones that offer good sound quality and a unique volume-limiting feature that should help to protect your hearing from the long-term damage that can come from exposure to loud music.
Is there a better alternative? Volume-limiting can be found on several models of kids’ headphones, including those made by Puro Sound Labs, but the PuroPro are the only model I’ve seen that’s aimed at adults. As such, they’re in a class of their own. But if this feature isn’t a must-have, check out our list of the best wireless headphones for several great alternatives.
How long will they last? The PuroPro come with a one-year warranty from Puro Sound Labs. Their overall build quality is good, and so are the materials. You can expect them to last as long as most products in this category if you take care of them.
Should you buy them? Yes, but only if their volume-limiting feature is a must-have.
Editors' Recommendations Earfun Free Pro 3 wireless earbuds will make you question Apple’s prices Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Focal’s first wireless headphones promise ANC and hi-fi sound for $799 Creative’s Outlier Pro ANC earbuds have massive battery life 1More’s PistonBuds Pro deliver hybrid ANC for $70 Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Monoprice is adding another set of wireless noise-canceling headphones to its arsenal, but this time, it's leveraging Swedish audio company Dirac to give thes cans a bit of extra firepower. The $130 Monolith M1000ANC use Dirac's Virtuo technology to give listeners the ability to upscale their audio into a virtualized spatial presentation that mimics real speakers. You can buy them starting March 17.
The M1000ANC look like a cross between Sony's flagship WH-1000XM4 and Shure's Aonic 40, and feature a fold-up design that help make them ideal for traveling. Inside the memory foam-cushioned earcups are a set of 40mm drivers with a frequency response of 20Hz to 20kHz. "Our Monolith headphones have an excellent reputation for superb performance at unbeatable prices," said Hobie Sechrest, Monolith business unit manager for Monoprice, in a press release. "These headphones are no exception." Audio / Video Beats has taken the wraps off its latest set of true wireless earbuds, the $200 Beats Fit Pro. As rumored, the new buds feature an integrated, soft and flexible silicone earfin (or wingtip as Beats likes to call them) that's designed to lock the earbuds into place and keep them from moving about. They come in black, white, gray, and pink -- though Beats calls that last one Stone Purple -- and can be pre-ordered on November 1 through Apple.com, with shipping starting on November 5.
The $200 Fit Pro occupy the middle-ground between the $150 Beats Studio Buds and the $250 Powerbeats Pro in terms of price, but the Fit Pro are arguably the new Beats flagship when you consider their list of features.
Audio / Video Anker's Soundcore brand of personal audio devices just released the latest in its Liberty line of true wireless earbuds, and the company seems to be throwing everything it has at them. The $170 Liberty 3 Pro feature a 30% smaller shape than their predecessor, the Liberty 2 Pro, plus they come equipped with active noise cancellation (ANC) and hi-res Bluetooth codecs, things the original version of the older model lacked. The Liberty 3 Pro come in four colors -- black, white, gray, and purple. If you buy them between today and October 14, you can save $20 at Amazon and at other retailers.
We were blown away by how great the Liberty 2 Pro performed. We only noted a few drawbacks -- a bulky design, and some fiddly buttons. Soundcore was apparently taking careful note -- the Liberty 3 Pro are notably smaller (though they'll likely still stick out from your ears a bit), and the tiny physical buttons have been ditched in favor of touch controls. They also look decidedly more high-end, with a mirrorlike finish and chrome accents. Soundcore says they'll feel more comfortable thanks to the shape of the redesigned silicon earwings.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
