Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sennheiser HD 660S2 review: I’m an open-back believer By Simon Cohen Close $600.00 Detailed and dynamic sound Excellent bass response Balanced and unbalanced cables Comfy enough for long sessions No case for protection Clamping force may feel too strong Open-back, wired headphones are, for a lot of audiophiles, the only kind of headphones worth using. They’ll wax poetic about the superior audio quality that comes from letting sound (which is to say, air vibrations) move freely in two directions — toward your ears, as well as away from them.
Design and comfort Balanced or unbalanced? Effortless sound For the longest time, I was having none of it. Having spent most of the last 20 years listening to nothing but closed-back headphones and deep-seated wired and wireless earbuds , I just didn’t think open-back cans could offer me anything I wasn’t already getting.
Sennheiser HD 660S2: audiophile favorites get improved bass response Sennheiser’s HD 800 S add stellar new color for company’s 75th anniversary I was wrong, and the Sennheiser HD 660S2 proved it.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends At $600, the Sennheiser HD 660S2 are pricey if you’re comparing them to the high-tech wonder that is Sony’s $400 WH-1000XM5.
 After all, the Sonys can operate wirelessly, they feature superb active noise cancellation (ANC), and they’re loaded with smart add-ons like the ability to automatically engage transparency mode when they sense you’re talking. And yeah, they sound amazing.
However, critical listening — a term I use to describe those rare moments when you can ease yourself into the comfiest seat in your home and give yourself over to the act of getting lost in your favorite music — is an activity that should be mediated by as little tech as possible. The HD 660S2 are very well-suited to the task.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Design and comfort A deeply plush set of ear cushions line the earcups, and a strip of memory foam provides the headband with excellent pressure distribution. Clamping force is a bit on the assertive side — though comfortable overall, I found myself aware of the pressure near my temples. It’s not a deal breaker — I’ve been through a number of cans where this was true right out of the box, but gradually lessened over time.
Curiously, Sennheiser has opted for a fairly narrow headband. It’s just 30 millimeters at its widest point as compared to the more affordable $200 Sennheiser HD 560S , which has a 45mm width. Will the 660S2’s narrower band remain as comfortable once that clamping force relaxes a little? It’s too soon to say.
The metal sliders have a fiercely notchy length adjustment, so there’s absolutely no fear that they’ll change once you find your size.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The rest of the design follows the style Sennheiser uses for its entire 600-series of headphones, with a minimalist approach that stops just short of being utilitarian thanks to the glossy metal mesh that protects the internals. It’s not only functional — letting air move freely — but it’s also aesthetically pleasing, letting us glimpse the latticework that supports the 42mm dynamic drivers. My biggest critique is that Sennheiser’s only nod to protection for your $600 investment is a nylon pouch. I know that these headphones haven’t been designed with traveling in mind, but the only thing that pouch will protect them from is dust.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Balanced or unbalanced? Another feature the 660S2 share with their siblings is the detachable, independent left/right cable system. In the box is an unbalanced cable — the kind you’d use to plug into standard home hi-fi equipment (or a laptop/portable player with the included 3.5mm adapter). But if you are a true enthusiast, you’ll likely opt for the second, “balanced” cable.
Balanced cables are only compatible with dedicated headphone amps , or combo digital-to-analog (DAC)/amps that also have a balanced output.
Why “balanced?” The theory is that signals sent along balanced cables are inherently less susceptible to interference we might be able to detect as audible noise. I won’t get into all of the technical details, but suffice it to say that there’s a fair amount of debate as to whether balanced cables — at the very short, 6-foot lengths Sennheiser has provided — make any difference at all. I have two DAC/amps that are equipped with both 4.4mm balanced and 3.5mm unbalanced outputs (an Ifi GoBar and a Questyle M15 ), and I’d be lying if I said I could hear a difference between the two outputs.
It’s worth noting, especially if you’re new to the world of audiophile-grade gear, that these headphones have a 300-ohm impedance, which means that even though you can plug them into a conventional headphone jack on your computer, you shouldn’t do that. You’ll still hear sound, but you’ll likely conclude that I’m crazy and that these cans aren’t anything special. In order to perform at their best, high-impedance drivers require more amplification power than regular wired cans or earbuds. Trust me, even a budget-friendly DAC/amp is going to go a long way toward making these cans hum.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Effortless sound Still, what I did hear blew me away. I’ve enjoyed the sound of the Sennheiser HD 560S, with their impressive precision, clarity, and ever-so-slightly warm EQ, but as I said in the introduction, they still felt less immersive than the closed-back cans I’d been using. But going from the HD 560S to the HD 660S2 is like opening a door that you didn’t even know was between you and your music.
In a word, the sound is effortless. It just springs forth and gently bathes you in its detail, instead of pummeling you, which I now recognize as a possible side effect of closed-back headphones.
I’ve recently developed a fondness for blues guitar, which has prompted an exploration of artists like B.B. King and Stevie Ray Vaughan. Listening to a track like Vaughn’s Tin Pan Alley on the HD 660S2 is glorious. All of the instruments, from the deep thrumming bass to the lilting, shimmering highs produced by Vaughan’s guitar work to all of the percussive hits — each is beautifully rendered.
I was thrilled to discover that deep, resonant bass — the part of the listening experience that I have always found lacking with open-backs — is every bit as present on these cans as I had hoped for. Yes, audiophiles, go ahead and say it. You told me so.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Open-back cans, with their inherently open and airy quality, should help you hear nuances in the soundstage, and this definitely proved true with the HD 660S2. The tracks from the Cowboy Junkies Trinity Sessions recordings possess a unique sound thanks to where they were recorded. Faint echoes can be heard as one dies away before the next one hits, lending the songs a slightly ethereal quality, while at the same time helping to place you in the same space as the band. I’ve heard it many times, but the 660S2 made it sound even more natural.
Best of all, for me at least, nothing felt like it was missing. Quite the opposite, in fact. I’ve been enjoying many moments where a favorite song reveals a detail that had been laying dormant for years or even decades.
Clearly, I was wrong about open-back headphones. But in my defense, I’ve never listened to a set like the Sennheiser HD 660S2 before. Now that I have, there’s no going (closed) back.
Editors' Recommendations Sony goes open-back with the MDR-MV1 studio monitors designed for spatial audio Sennheiser’s HD 560S headphones aim for budget-conscious audiophiles Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
