Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless Review By Caleb Denison Close $350.00 Amazing battery life Outstanding sound Effective wind noise reduction Comfortable Effective ANC No auto-off function Sennheiser has been making premium headphones for decades. As technology has evolved, its headphones have kept pace by including that new technology. But when it comes to style, Sennheiser has always stuck to its guns. Its headphones have always had a distinctive, classy designer look to them — case in point are the Sennheiser Momentum 3 Wireless.
Video review All-new style Momentum 4 features Momentum 4 specs Momentum 4 noise-canceling Momentum 4 call quality Momentum 4 sound quality Our take With the new Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless — up for preorder on August 9 and available in full on August 23 — Sennheiser has taken a more conventional approach. In fact, looking at the Momentum 4 Wireless, it’s impossible not to think that Sennheiser is taking direct aim at Sony’s wildly popular XM-series headphones.
The best wireless headphones for 2023 from Bose, Sony, 1More and more Sennheiser’s new budget-friendly headphones get a very high-end feature Niche Canadian company takes on Sony with new wireless earbuds and headphones That was a smart move, and I think Sennheiser has done a terrific job with the Momentum 4 wireless. These headphones have all the latest features, incredible battery life, and sound better than the Sony XM-series headphones.
 But should you buy them? Let’s see if we can figure that out together.
Video review All-new style As these photos make clear, Sennheiser has pivoted from a design made for headphone enthusiasts to a design that will appeal to a massive audience spanning those who work from home to those who work on airplanes. The Momentum 4 Wireless look like they mean business when it comes to doing business. They won’t call too much attention while taking a Zoom call, and they’ll fit right among all the Sony and Bose headphones you see folks wearing on airline flights these days.
The Momentum 4 Wireless are remarkably comfortable. I initially was worried about the scant amount of padding underneath the headband. But after wearing the Momentum 4 Wireless for over 100 hours at this point, I can tell you that between the cushy earcups, perfect clamping force, and generally light weight, the Momentum 4 Wireless are a pleasure to wear for long periods of time. No pinched crown, no ear sweats, no other fatigue-inducing elements, just all-day (or all-flight) comfort.
1.
Sennheiser Momentum 3 2.
Sony WH-1000XM5 3.
Sennheiser Momentum 4 The Momentum 4 Wireless case is exactly what you’d expect: a zippered, reinforced soft-sided affair that cradles the headphones, a USB-C charging cable, headphone cable, and my old, increasingly irrelevant friend, the airline adapter. The case material matches the exterior of the headband The Momentum 4 Wireless do not collapse completely down. Like the Sony WH1000-XM5 , the earcups simply rotate in for a flatter profile, and that’s it. As such, the case is a bit larger than those that accompanies more compact headphones, though I have not found this to be an annoyance.
Momentum 4 features The Momentum 4 Wireless have just one button. A short press calls up your phone’s digital assistant. Press for three seconds to turn the headphones on or off, or press for five seconds to put them in pairing mode. Even though I think it’s silly that two commands are separated by two seconds of pressing, it ended up being a nonissue thanks to the headphones ’ Bluetooth auto-pairing feature.
The rest of the controls for music and calls are found on the surface of the right earcup. Tap the earcup to play/pause, swipe back and forth to advance or go back a track, and swipe up and down for volume control. The gestures relevant to phone calls kick in when you receive or are on a call.
The Momentum 4 Wireless have industry-leading battery life.
The left earcup does nothing but produce excellent sound.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t seem that the Momentum 4 Wireless have an auto-off feature that triggers after, say, 15 minutes of being them not being worn. I know this because I packed them up in my backpack, tossed the backpack in the back of my car, drove home, and had constant Bluetooth connection issues with my car stereo because the Momentum 4 Wireless kept trying to connect to my phone during the drive. When I arrived at my destination, I noticed that my phone was still connected to the headphones. And when I pulled my backpack out of the trunk, I heard the headphones blaring away from within. I found this odd because the headphones have an excellent sensor inside the earcups that prompts them to pause music when they are removed from the head.
It turns out the sensor is so sensitive that it can be fooled into thinking the headphones are pressed against a head when they are sandwiched in their case. As such, it is probably a good idea to turn them off manually, though it’s not the end of the world if you don’t because the Momentum 4 Wireless have industry-leading battery life.
Previous Next 1 10 Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends As you might expect, there is an app you can use with the Momentum Wireless 4, and it offers decent functionality. Set the ANC to automatically adjust to your environment, or manually control how effective the ANC is, from block-it-all-out mode all the way to transparency mode. You can also create and name “zones,” so the headphones adopt a custom ANC and/or EQ setting based on areas you frequent. As for that EQ control? It’s a very basic, three-band affair, with basic bass, midrange, and treble adjustments. Frankly, I never felt a need to adjust the EQ.
Momentum 4 specs The Momentum 4 wireless use Bluetooth version 5.2 with AAC, AptX and Aptx Adaptive codec support. I found the Bluetooth connection to be both remarkably stable and impressively long-range. I was able to walk about 100 feet from my phone without so much as a blip in the music I was listening to. It was only after I took a turn around a corner and placed several walls between myself and the headphones that I experienced any signal dropout. In other words, the Momentum 4 Wireless’ connection strength is best in class.
What about battery life? Dig this: 60 hours — and that’s with ANC turned on. With ANC off, they’ll go even longer. To put things in perspective, that’s double the battery life of the Sony XM5.
 I’ve been putting that battery life claim to the test, and after 63 hours of listening with active noise-canceling engaged, I still have battery to spare. Frankly, I think that’s incredible. Well done, Sennheiser.
Momentum 4 noise-canceling While Sony and Bose still offer the most effective noise reduction available in headphones today, Sennheiser is catching up quickly. The Momentum 4 Wireless’ ANC is so good that, when playing music, I was unable to detect a difference between them and the Sony XM5 in a head-to-head comparison. It wasn’t until I turned my music off and used the ANC on its own that I was able to hear the Sony XM5 cutting down a broader spectrum of noise to a slightly quieter level than the Momentum 4 Wireless.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Still, while the Sony XM5 (as well as the XM4) may technically have slightly superior noise canceling, I think the Momentum 4 Wireless’ ANC is, in practice, good enough to make most listeners extremely happy.
Momentum 4 call quality I would characterize the Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless’ call quality as very good. During my testing, the person on the other end of my phone calls reported that my voice came through very clearly. That is until I walked onto a busy street with noisy cars and buses passing by. At that point, some of the noise around me did bleed into the call. This is typical of most headphones, however, though it is worth noting that the Sony XM5, Bose NC 700 , and Apple AirPods Max all do a slightly better job of filtering out noise around you when making calls.
Another area of improvement for call quality would be the manner in which the user’s voice is piped into the headphones. When I made calls, I struggled to hear my own voice as well as I do with the aforementioned competing headphones , so I had to monitor how loudly I was speaking.
One area in which the Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless are unmatched for call quality, though, is wind-noise reduction. I’ve never heard wind noise so effectively canceled by any of the other headphones I have tested over the past few years.
Momentum 4 sound quality Let’s not mince words here: The Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless have better overall sound quality than the Sony XM5, Bose QC45.
Bose NC 700, and Apple AirPods Max.
 Granted, appreciation for sound quality is highly subjective, but for my money, the Momentum Wireless 4 offer a level of refinement, detail, and bass presence that I feel is unmatched by the competition.
More bass? Yes. But also better bass.
Bass performance is what stood out most prominently when I first started listening to music on the Momentum 4 Wireless. Now, to be clear, the Momentum brand has always had more pronounced bass than most of Sennheiser’s other headphone offerings; however, the bass in the Momentum Wireless 4 isn’t just pronounced (aka, bass-forward) it is deep, tuneful, and poignant in a way that outclasses competing models from Sony, Bose, and Apple. It’s more bass, yes, but it’s also better bass.
Once I got past my delight at the bass performance, I noticed a very open, spacious soundstage. With the Sony Xm5, the audio image seems to manifest inside your head. With the Momentum 4 Wireless, though, the soundstage seems to be set up all around you. There is depth, precise instrumental placement, and other elements of sonic holography that I’ve typically heard only in the most high-end wired headphones I’ve tested.
Also, I feel the treble is better refined than most competing headphones, with detail, articulation, and texture that is sure to please audiophiles. I also enjoyed the clarity of vocals a great deal, with transparency that is more akin to an open-backed headphone than a closed-back design, never mind one which is employing active noise canceling and digital sound processing to achieve its sonic signature. To me, this is especially remarkable.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends More broadly speaking, I simply have more fun listening to music on the Momentum 4 Wireless. There’s more to dig into. More to notice. If you’re more of a passive listener, some of the depth and detail may not register, but it doesn’t take an audiophile to hear how superb the Momentum 4 Wireless headphones sound.
Our take The Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless are a fantastic set of headphones with very effective noise canceling, solid call quality, and tremendous sound quality. If Sennheiser’s mission was to make a model competitive with the features of Sony’s vaunted XM4 and XM5 headphones , but with better sound fidelity, then I’d say: mission accomplished.
Is there a better alternative? The Sony XM4 and XM5, Bose QC45 and NC 700, and Apple AirPods Max all offer marginally superior noise canceling and call quality. Those for whom headphones are as much a tool for business as they are for enjoyment may find one of those alternatives to be more suitable. However, for anyone who places sound quality and battery life at the top of their priorities list, the Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless will be the better choice.
How long will it last? Given their build quality and ability to receive updates, the Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless should last well into the future.
Warranty Sennheiser offers at two-year warranty on the Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless.
Should you buy them? Yes. The Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless are among the best-featured and best-sounding headphones on the market and are sure to delight anyone looking for the best combination of modern features and excellent sound quality.
Editors' Recommendations The best waterproof wireless earbuds for 2023 Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Best wireless earbuds for 2023: Sony, Bose, Soundcore, and more Skullcandy honors Purple Haze weed with its latest 4/20 earbuds Jabra’s $100 Elite 4 are its most affordable ANC earbuds yet Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Wireless headphones (and wireless earbuds) have been hugely popular because of their wire-free convenience and handy features like active noise cancellation (ANC), but audiophiles have never been big fans of the way they sound. Thanks to a new partnership between PSB Speakers, MQA, and Sonical, that could be about to change in a big way: the threesome is planning to launch the world's first set of wireless headphones that use ultra-wideband (UWB) technology instead of Bluetooth, in the first quarter of 2024.
The PSB M4U8 wireless headphones don't have UWB, but they could be the starting point for the first UWB model. PSB / PSB Audio / Video Sennheiser has updated its fan-favorite open-back HD 600 series with a new flagship, the $600 HD 660S2, which will be available for pre-order globally from February 7, 2023, and will go on sale February 21, 2023. The company says the HD 660S2 (which replaces the older HD 660S) offer enhanced sub-bass tuning and greater sensitivity across all frequencies.
"Our new Sennheiser HD 660S2 offers listeners what they requested most from the headphones’ predecessor,” Jermo Koehnke, Sennheiser Audiophile Product Manager said in a press release. “With precision and power like no other and new sensitivity across all frequencies, listeners will hear details they’ve never heard before, especially at the lower end of the spectrum.” Audio / Video It's a noisy world out there, and if you've ever found it hard to hear a conversation in a crowded bar or anywhere else with substantial ambient noise, then Sennheiser's Conversation Clear Plus wireless earbuds, announced this week as CES 2023, could clear things up for you.
When the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) made it possible for those with mild to moderate hearing loss to get over-the-counter (OTC) hearing aids without a prescription last October, the market responded, with big-name players like Sony, Jabra, and Bose jumping in with products of their own. And while Sennheiser isn't officially tagging the Conversation Clear Plus earbuds as OTC hearing aids, they use what Sennheiser calls "advanced speech enhancement technology," developed by one of the world's biggest hearing aid makers, Sonova (which now owns Sennheiser), with the main purpose of enhancing speech and filtering out noise so you can hear conversations better.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
