Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is a DAC and why would you need one? By Tyler Lacoma and Derek Malcolm Close If you want to get serious about sound, then it’s time to talk about digital-to-analog converters, or DACs, as they’re more easily referred to. These components play a vital role in digital sound, and adding or upgrading a DAC could lead to a significant improvement to your audio … especially if you are using hi-res or lossless audio formats.
 Here’s what you need to know.
What is a DAC? What’s an external DAC? Are there portable DACs to use on the go? What makes a good external DAC? How much do DACs usually cost? Do I need certain types of music files to use with a DAC? My headphones aren’t great — will a new DAC still make a difference? I use wireless (Bluetooth) headphones. Do I need a DAC? What is a DAC? S.M.S.L.
As we mentioned above, DAC stands for “digital-to-analog converter.” These devices became a vital part of our music technology around the time we started making the switch from analog formats such as vinyl records and cassette tapes to the digital sound files and formats that we commonly use today.
Records store recorded sound waves as tiny grooves etched into the vinyl. If you run a tiny needle (stylus) through those grooves, it vibrates, bringing those sound waves back to life with a little help from an amplifier and your speakers. Cassettes do something similar.
What is YouTube Music? Everything you need to know What is Sonos? What you need to know about the wireless music system What you need to listen to lossless audio and Dolby Atmos Music on Apple Music Digital audio, however, is more complicated. It stores sound waves as a series of zeros and ones, the same digital building blocks used for everything from spreadsheets to video games. To turn those “bits” back into something you can actually hear, you need a dedicated piece of hardware — the DAC.
At its core, a DAC is simply a microchip that has been designed to read the zeros and ones of digital music and turn them into analog electrical impulses that can then be amplified and sent to your headphones or speakers so you can hear them. If it’s easier, you can think of it like the digital music equivalent of a turntable’s stylus.
What’s an external DAC? Cambridge Audio Because so many kinds of devices are now capable of playing digital music, DACs can be found in everything from smartphones to gaming consoles. If a device can play sound you can hear through a built-in speaker, or via a headphone jack, it has a DAC.
But just like vinyl aficionado s will be the first to point out that not all turntable styluses are created equal, neither are all DACs.
A DAC isn’t the only component that ensures your digital music sounds its best, but it can play a big role. Some DACs are limited — they can’t accurately decode all digital music files at their full quality. Others won’t be able to play some file types at all. Then there are the really nuanced aspects of DACs, things like distortion, noise, and sensitivity, each of which can impact what you hear.
That’s a problem for listeners who want to get the most out of their music. You could have a hi-res music file downloaded onto your device, or a subscription to stream hi-res audio from a streaming music platform such as Tidal, Amazon Music HD, Qobuz, and Apple Music. But a low-quality DAC won’t be able to process these files properly, or won’t be taking as many samples to ensure audio accuracy according to the music file, so the results will be significantly less than you could be hearing.
That’s why even though your phone or computer almost certainly has its own DAC, you might still want to buy an external DAC.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends External DACs come in various shapes and sizes depending on your use. You may want to connect them to your TV, game console, or computer to improve your sound at home, or choose a compact DAC to connect to your smartphone or digital music player when on the go with headphones (more on this below). Their advanced capabilities, customization options, and ability to convert a wide range of digital audio formats will draw the best from your audio files and streams.
A common usage example could be connecting your laptop to an external DAC via a USB cable to play some hi-res files you have stored on your hard drive or high-quality audio from Apple Music.
 The DAC in some MacBooks, for example, is limited to 24-bit/48kHz, meaning that, while it can still process high-quality sound, it falls short of supporting very high-resolution audio that can reach a bit depth of 32-bits and a sampling frequency of up to 192kHz or higher. That’s especially frustrating for Apple Music subscribers who have access to the highest lossless tier of 24-bit/192kHz tracks.
An external DAC can read those lossless files or streams directly, bypassing the MacBook’s internal DAC, thus unlocking the music’s full potential. Depending on the DAC you choose, it can come with a wide range of digital inputs and analog outputs (e.g. RCA, balanced XLR, optical, HDMI, etc.). Just choose a DAC that’s compatible with your setup. to accommodate not only your computer and amplifier/receiver but all of your other audio gear too.
Are there portable DACs to use on the go? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Yes, most definitely. Getting the most out of your smartphone’s sound might require a portable DAC, too. While you could connect wired headphones to your iPhone via Apple’s lightning-to-3.5mm adapter, that accessory’s built-in DAC can only output up to a maximum of 24-bit/48kHz, so you will, again, need a more capable external portable DAC/amp to unlock the higher resolution lossless tier. Some Android devices that still have headphone jacks have internal DACs capable of better quality, so it’s best to check out your device’s specs first before you spend the money on a portable DAC.
A couple of solid portable DACs on the market include the $59 pocket-sized iFi Go Link , or you can spend a bit more money and pair a unit like the the impressive Chord Mojo 2 with a high-quality set of wired headphones.
What makes a good external DAC? Image used with permission by copyright holder A number of companies create excellent DACs, such as the comprehensive DacMagic 200M from Cambridge Audio.
 DACs can have many different designs and features, but important things to look for may include: A volume knob capable of making adjustments to volume A built-in amp (many DACs require additional amplification) Compatibility with a broad number of audio formats and digital inputs, including lossless, hi-res formats, hi-res Bluetooth codecs if you want to stream audio wirelessly, and so on Outputs that match the speakers you use — that could include a basic 3.5mm jack, RCA, XLR, and more.
Switches that allow you to adjust gain (baseline volume) and other important audio settings The ability to apply audio filters Larger DACs like the Cambridge DacMagic 200M may also show you the current sample rate coming into the device, so you know that the DAC is sampling the audio data frequently enough to be very accurate — sometimes up to nearly 200,000 samples a second How much do DACs usually cost? For a good-quality DAC, you can expect to pay $59 to $100 at minimum for a small, portable version. Larger DACs or those with more features can easily cost up to $300 or more. On the high end, professional, or very high-quality DACs can reach into the thousands of dollars.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Do I need certain types of music files to use with a DAC? Just make sure your DAC supports the audio formats that you use. External DACs are typically designed with a wide variety of formats and resolutions in mind, so compatibility is rarely an issue, but it’s always a good idea to double-check. A good example of a format that is not always supported is MQA.
 If you need full MQA decoding, make sure the DAC you buy clearly states in the specs that it will do this.
My headphones aren’t great — will a new DAC still make a difference? It could … but you’ll probably get better results from upgrading your headphones now, and investing in a DAC to complement them later on. Some headphones, particularly gaming headphones, can come with their own DACs, too, if you don’t mind purchasing a bundle. If you aren’t sure if you need a headphone upgrade or a DAC, consult an expert to talk about the headphones you have, and if a DAC would be a good accessory. And if you’re looking for the best headphones to take advantage of hi-res audio, take a look at our list ! I use wireless (Bluetooth) headphones. Do I need a DAC? If your headphones or earbuds are wireless, they already have a built-in DAC. Music stays digital as it passes over the wireless Bluetooth link and only gets converted to analog once it reaches your earbuds or headphones. However, if your wireless headphones also have a wired analog input jack (which many models offer) you can use them with an external DAC to get even higher music quality from your source device, albeit without the convenience of a wireless connection.
Editors' Recommendations What is a network music streamer and why do you need one? What is HDR TV? High dynamic range and why you need it What’s a headphone amp, and why would you need one? What you need in order to build an outdoor movie theater Mobile Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
