Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How Much is Spotify Premium? Download Songs from Spotify Share a Spotify Playlist How to Cancel Spotify Premium Apple Music vs Spotify Spotify Free Trial Delete Spotify Account Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Amazon Music: everything you need to know By Derek Malcolm Close It’s a jungle of music streaming platforms out there, so it stands to reason that Amazon would have one among its massive kingdom of services. And while Amazon Music might not be top of mind among the Spotifys and Apple Musics of the world, you might be surprised by its 100-million-song library, high-resolution and spatial audio offerings, podcast library, Alexa voice control, and a pretty amiable user interface that makes finding music pretty easy.
What is Amazon Music? What plans are available and what do you get? Features and discovery How much is Amazon Music? How do I listen to Amazon Music? Amazon Music’s subscriptions range from free to its premium Music Unlimited tier, which can be added for $9 per month on top of a subscription to Amazon Prime.
 However, Amazon recently announced that, as of September 19, this price is going up to $10 per month (more on this below). But they all come with some quirks and features. We’re going to break them all down for you to help you choose which, if any, Amazon Music plan is right for you.
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends What is Amazon Music? Amazon Music is a music streaming service similar to Apple Music, Spotify, YouTube Music , Tidal , and Deezer. It offers a library of more than 100 million songs and a wide range of popular podcasts to stream and download for offline listening, too. Similarly to its competitors, Amazon Music users have access to a massive amount of current and back-catalog songs and albums and can create their own playlists that can be shared. It also uses your listening habits to create recommendations: new artists, albums, curated playlists, podcasts, and more, to help you easily find something good to play For the audiophiles out there, Amazon Music has plan tiers for hi-resolution lossless audio that it calls HD and Ultra HD (more on this below), which is important if you’re considering Spotify, as it currently does not.
The platform’s interface and controls are easy to use and full of album artwork and visuals (taking more than a few cues from Spotify) and can be accessed in a number of ways, including iOS and Android apps, desktop apps for Mac and Windows, and web browsers, as well as Echo and Fire TV devices. Additionally, Amazon Music works with Alexa voice control, allowing you to do things like skip tracks, pause, or ask it to play something, all with voice commands.
What plans are available and what do you get? Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Amazon Music Free If you’re looking for the entry-level experience to get your feet wet, its most basic plan is the ad-supported Amazon Music Free, for which you do not need to have an Amazon Prime subscription to use. The bare-bones tier is a bit limited (as most ad-based, free services are), giving you access to “millions of podcast episodes,” and thousands of playlists and stations with ads popping in between songs.
Perhaps most annoying for most people is the fact that playback is limited to only shuffle — meaning you can’t select any song you want to play — and songs are not available in the lossless HD or Ultra HD formats. All you need is a standard Amazon account, and you don’t even need to hand over your credit card information.
Amazon Music Prime If you can’t stomach the ads of the Free tier, and you’re already an Amazon Prime subscriber (or are thinking of becoming one), Amazon Music Prime is free. Not only do you get all the perks of an Amazon Prime account like same-day shipping and Prime Video, but the music situation also opens up with ad-free access to the entire 100-million song library, podcasts, stations, and playlists. Downloads are also made available at this level, too, which is good because this tier only allows for playback on one device at a time, too, unless you’re playing downloaded music that’s stored on your device.
It doesn’t come without quirks, though. While you do get access to that expanded library (the same 100 million songs as the Unlimited tier, actually), playback of albums, artists, and playlists is still limited to shuffle mode, with the exception of the “All-Access Playlists,” which you can pick, play, skip, and download at will. Things get even more specific for Echo devices (even the All-Access Playlists are in shuffle mode), Fire TV (there’s music, but no podcasts), and Fire Tablet (where the catalog is limited and there are no ad-free podcasts), and you also don’t get access to all that HD, Ultra HD, and spatial audio goodness, either. All that said, you may just want to consider … Amazon Music Unlimited Amazon Music Unlimited is the full experience. It’s basically everything that the Amazon Music Prime plan offers with no pesky shuffling or limits on what you can and cannot play; just have at it. But I’ve buried the lede here — Amazon Music Unlimited is all about the sound quality. 100 million songs are available in lossless HD format (that’s CD-quality 16-bit/44.1kHz, with an average bitrate of 850kbps), and an undisclosed “millions” of tracks in their top-level Ultra HD quality range (24-bit depth and sample rate ranging from 44.1 to 192kHz and an average bitrate 3,730kbps). These hi-resolution tracks use the FLAC audio codec and the sound is crystal clear and stunning, rivaling the sound quality of competitors like Tidal (which also uses FLAC) and Apple Music (which uses the comparable Apple ALAC codec). There are also more than a thousand tracks mastered in Dolby Atmos Music and 360 Reality Audio, should you want to space out with some immersive surround sound. Music Unlimited itself has a range of plan options to suit (outlined below) that have a few limitations, but for the most part, it’s a robust music streaming plan worthy of consideration.
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Features and discovery The Amazon Music interface is easy to navigate, and well organized — regular Spotify users will feel right at home quickly. For the most part, there are not many differences between the smartphone and desktop apps, or the web player, for that matter, making the experience more or less consistent across them all. The one thing you will notice missing from the desktop and web player experience, however, is the Alexa button at the bottom of the smartphone app that you can press to search and control playback with voice commands. You can also activate this when the app is open with the “Alexa” summon command.
The Home page is the first thing you see when launching the service, putting tabs for your music, podcasts, search function, and library up top (desktop) and along the bottom (smartphone). The scrolling screen is a dense combination of your frequently played content and a ton of suggestions for discovery — artists, stations, Top Playlists and Top Songs for what’s current, new releases, genres, exclusive podcasts, and more — making it easy to find something you like. If you’re in a pinch and just want to quickly put something on that you’ll like, My Soundtrack is an automatically-created radio station playlist that’s based on your listening habits and the artists and tracks you’ve liked. My Discovery Mix is also based on your habits but serves up a playlist of new music that’s refreshed every Monday.
The Library is where your saved albums, songs, playlists, followed podcast episodes, downloaded music, and more reside, and can be filtered as you see fit.
Like most music streaming apps, the playback bar is minimized along the bottom of the screen, and when expanded it brings up album artwork, track/album information, playback controls, and even a bold yellow icon telling you the track’s quality: SD, HD, or Ultra HD. One cool feature is that when you tap this icon, a window pops up showing you the track quality from Amazon Music, the digital-to-analog (DAC) conversion capability of your device (like your iPhone or computer), and the output quality (like from the iPhone’s speaker or a set of Bluetooth headphones). This information tells you exactly the quality you’re getting from the files along the whole playback chain — just because the file is UHD at 24-bit/96kHz, your device may only be capable of decoding it at 24-bit/44.1kHz. Additionally, if you swipe right there’s another screen that shows details on any Dolby Atmos tracks you’re listening to, as well (images and more on this below).
Sharing options, lyrics, and connectivity features for Wi-Fi network speakers, Bluetooth, and AirPlay speakers are also easily accessible from the playback window, and there’s even a fun feature called “X-Ray” that doles out factoids and information on what you’re listening to, as well as other content suggestions.
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends How much is Amazon Music? In typical Amazon fashion, there are several plans that you can get into, including the ad-based Amazon Music Free, the ad-free Amazon Music Prime that, like Amazon Prime Video , you get free if you’re an Amazon Prime member, and the top-tier Amazon Music Unlimited, which you can pay a premium for on top of your Amazon Prime membership or get a la carte. Here’s how it breaks down: Amazon Music Free: Free, no Amazon Prime subscription is required, but the creation of an account is required.
Amazon Music Prime: Included free with an Amazon Prime Membership, which currently runs for $15 per month or $139 per year. Students, however, can get a crazy deal at the moment with the usual $15 per month rate cut to $7.49 per month for up to four years , which also gives you access to Prime Video, Prime Gaming, and more.
Amazon Music Unlimited: This is the top of the heap, and it offers several subscription options.
Music Unlimited Individual Plan: This single-user plan will run you $9 per month/$89 per year ( increasing to $10/$99 September 19 ) in addition to a Prime membership, or $11 per month without a Prime membership. New subscribers can snag a three-month trial before having to fork over any money.
Music Unlimited Family Plan: This plan allows playback on up to six devices at a time and costs $16 per month/$159 per year (also rising to $17/$169 in September). It requires an Amazon Prime subscription.
Music Unlimited Student Plan: In addition to the special student Prime rate mentioned above, the usual $6 per month student rate for Amazon Music has also been slashed in an offer to one dollar per month for up to four years.
Music Unlimited Single-Device Plan: This one’s a bit weird as it’s only available for Echo and Fire TV devices, doesn’t include HD or Ultra HD quality or spatial audio tracks, and doesn’t allow downloads. It’s $5 per month with a Prime membership.
How do I listen to Amazon Music? Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Amazon music can be played back through the Amazon Music desktop app for PC and Mac, on iOS and Android devices, and a wide range of other devices including Amazon Echo and Fire TV devices, Sonos systems, and Roku media streamers. Outside of the apps, you can access the player through a web browser, too. You can also access the app in some cars through Android Auto or Apple CarPlay.
Amazon Music’s spatial audio tracks can be experienced through Dolby Atmos-capable devices , such as soundbars, headphones, surround sound systems, iOS and Android devices, and the Amazon Echo Studio speaker. Amazon Music will also be one of two music services to support Dolby Atmos Music on the new Sonos Era 300 when that speaker launches on March 28, 2023.
To experience the full extent of some of the highest-resolution Ultra HD tracks, you may require an external digital-to-analog converter (DAC), which you can learn all about in our explainer.
One feature some might miss with Amazon Music is a native, built-in equalizer in the app that many Apple Music and Spotify users will be familiar with. Sadly, you won’t be able to boost the bass or treble of a pair of not-so-great speakers, but many modern headphones come with apps that let you do this (and probably do a better job as well), and your car and home stereos will likely have EQ features as well. Rest assured the quality of the HD and Ultra HD tracks on Amazon Unlimited is top-notch and properly balanced, so you might not even miss it.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music How much is Apple Music, and how can you get it for free? Apple quietly retires one of its Apple Music tiers Best network music streamers 2023: make your hi-fi smarter Tidal vs. Spotify: Which music streaming service has the features you need? Mobile Amazon Apple Music Streaming Services Spotify Audio / Video Spotify is the first name that comes to mind when you think of music-streaming apps. Love it or hate it, Spotify is currently the most popular music-streaming service, boasting 551 million users and more than 220 million subscribers, putting it ahead of competitors like Apple Music. But what exactly is Spotify, and how does it really work? We're answering all your questions with this deep dive into what you can expect from Spotify.
What is Spotify? If you spend even a little time online, you've probably heard of Spotify. It's a popular free and paid music-streaming service founded in Stockholm in 2006 by Swedish friends Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon. Fun fact: the name happened by fluke when the partners were shouting names back and forth from different rooms in Ek's Stockholm flat, and Ek misheard one of Lorentzon's suggestions as "Spotify." They later backtracked the meaning as a combination of spot and identify, and there you have it.
Spotify today is a behemoth of a streaming service that also offers access to podcasts, videos, and highly tailored playlists driven by your unique usage. With several plan tiers to choose from, Spotify's free version lets you listen to unlimited music, podcasts, and even videos, so you can explore your taste without shelling out a thing, but you do have to endure ads and limited functionality (more on that below). It does offer much more robust paid options (more below, too), but the free version is more than enough for the casual listener.
Spotify is also quite device-versatile, so you can use it on your smartphone, tablet, computer, laptop, TV, smartwatch, gaming console, and even in your car. You get the expected, intuitive controls like play/pause, next/previous, loop a song/playlist, and save favorites. But that's not all. There's a lot that Spotify offers, so let's break down what you can look forward to.
Spotify features: music, podcasts, and more Audio / Video There are currently many ways for you to access all the shows and movies you want from all your favorite streaming services, be it Netflix, Max, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, or Disney+. For many people, using whatever is built into to your TV is just fine. That could be one of the more popular streaming platforms, like Roku, Amazon Fire TV, or Google TV. But there are plenty of reasons to use an external streaming device, too.
The major players in the streaming device game — Amazon Fire TV, Apple TV, Android TV, Google TV, Roku — are all fighting for your money, so we're here to make sure you throw it at the right streaming device for you and your budget. These devices typically range from as low as $30 to as high as $200.
Audio / Video Amazon today announced that it will include "limited advertisements" in movies and shows starting in early 2024 in the U.S., U.K., Germany, and Canada. Australia, France, Italy, Mexico, and Spain will follow later in the year.
If you don't want to see that advertising, you'll be able to get rid of it for an extra $3 a month, provided that you already are an Amazon Prime member. (Non-member pricing will be announced later, Amazon said.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
