Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Audio / Video Guides What is ANC and how do noise-cancelling headphones work? By Michael Bizzaco and Simon Cohen Close Noise-cancelling headphones and earbuds are a godsend. If you’ve ever owned a pair, you’ll know their ability to create a peaceful, noise-free listening experience that’s excellent for listening to music, blocking out commute noise, and even working. And if you’re thinking of investing in a set, you’re in for a treat. Of course, not all noise-canceling products are created equal, but many of these devices are unified by some common audio tech. One feature that a number of these headphones and earbuds use is something called active noise-cancellation, or ANC.
What is active noise cancellation? Active versus passive noise cancellation What’s the difference between ANC and ANR? How do ANC headphones and earbuds work? Adaptive ANC What makes one set of ANC headphones better than another? What can I expect from a good set of ANC headphones? What are some signs of bad ANC headphones? What about Environmental Noise Cancellation (ENC)? When it comes to noise cancellation, you can think of ANC as the foundation. But how exactly does this impressive circuitry and sound processing work? What does the jargon mean? Who are the big players? We’re here today to give you a crash course in ANC and its many audio offshoots.
What is active noise cancellation? Sony If you ever took an Introduction to Physics class in high school or college, you may remember a section that covered waves. Waves made of water, or light, or sound all share a few intrinsic properties. ANC technology takes advantage of one of these properties: Any wave can be effectively “canceled” if you create a second wave that is the exact opposite of the first wave — a process known as destructive interference.
Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity How do bone conduction headphones work? So if you can create a set of headphones that can listen to the outside world and instantly create a set of sound waves that are the exact opposite of the sound waves it hears (a.k.a. anti-noise), then, in theory, you wouldn’t hear the external sounds at all — they would have been canceled before ever reaching your eardrum. That’s exactly what ANC does.
Bose, the company that developed the first commercial ANC headphones for pilots, and then the first ANC headphones for the general public, describes it like so: With microphones inside and outside the earcups, Bose noise-cancelling headphones continuously sense, measure, and send unwanted sounds to proprietary digital signal processing chips which compute a precise, equal, and opposite signal to react to changing noise in less than a fraction of a millisecond. The result is surrounding noise all but vanishes.
Not all ANC is created equal, however, which means that even though all ANC headphones and earbuds use this same principle, there can still be big differences between brands and models.
Active versus passive noise cancellation Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As great as ANC can be, it’s worth noting that it’s not the only way to deal with noise. Passive noise cancellation (sometimes called passive noise isolation) takes a decidedly low-tech approach to the problem by creating a physical barrier between your eardrums and external sounds.
It’s usually accomplished by creating a tight seal around your ear (if it’s a set of headphones ) or inside your ear canal if you’re using earbuds.
 Either way, the result is the same: You won’t hear a sound that can’t make it to your eardrums in the first place. When passive noise cancellation is done well, it can be so effective that you don’t feel the need for anything else.
It’s also worth noting that despite using different approaches, active and passive noise cancellation are actually complementary to one another. The more sound you can passively block, the better ANC technology can cancel the sounds that still make it through.
Think of it like paint: If you use a coat of primer on your walls, you’ll probably need fewer coats of paint to get the color and coverage you want, than if you simply applied the paint directly.
What’s the difference between ANC and ANR? You may have seen the term Active Noise Reduction, or ANR, in addition to the more common ANC. In practice, there’s no difference between them. Each company uses its preferred label, but it’s the same feature.
Interestingly, Bose uses both terms, but in different circumstances. When Bose makes its own noise-canceling headphones , it calls them ANC, because Bose has been 100% responsible for how those headphones perform. But sometimes third-party companies will license Bose’s noise-canceling technology to create their own ANC headphones.
 Amazon did this when it introduced its first-generation Echo Buds.
 When that happens, those third parties use the term ANR to refer to Bose’s contribution, as a way of indicating that Bose wasn’t involved in every aspect of the headphones’ performance.
How do ANC headphones and earbuds work? Apple All ANC headphones and earbuds use microphones to detect external sounds. An onboard microprocessor then analyzes those sounds and feeds the required opposite sound waves to your ears via the headphone’s speakers. Amazingly, this can be done whether you’re playing music or not.
Some ANC models use “feedforward” microphones. These mics are placed on the outside of the headphones , where they’re able to pick up external sounds clearly and quickly. But feedforward ANC systems don’t know what happens to external sounds as they pass through the noise-isolating barrier of the earcups (or ear tips). This means that the anti-noise they produce may not be a perfect match for the noise that enters your ears.
Other ANC systems use “feedback” microphones, which sit inside the earcups of the headphones.
 They get the most accurate reading on the external sounds that have penetrated the headphones , so they should be able to create the most accurate anti-noise. But these systems aren’t as adept at canceling high-frequency sounds as feedforward mics. They also have to contend with any music you’re listening to. Being able to distinguish between the sound you want to hear (your music) and the sound you want to cancel can be tricky, and feedback systems run the risk of canceling out some of your music.
As you might expect, the best ANC systems use a hybrid of the feedforward and feedback models and use both internal and external microphones to combat noise. If you see a set of headphones that list “Hybrid ANC,” it uses this method.
Adaptive ANC A relatively new term in the headphone space, Adaptive ANC can mean different things depending on the model of headphones and the technology being used.
Qualcomm’s Adaptive ANC technology , for instance, helps ANC circuitry respond in real-time to changes in the amount of external sound that makes its way inside the sealed area of the headphones.
 It’s an attempt to compensate for the fact that there are hundreds of different ear and head shapes, making it hard for any one model to fit all people perfectly.
Qualcomm’s Active Noise Cancellation featured in the Nuraloop headphones.
Nuraloop Even if you get a great seal with a set of earbuds, as you walk, run, or even talk, the earbuds will naturally shift around inside your ear, causing that seal to change. Qualcomm’s Adaptive ANC responds to these changes.
Another form of Adaptive ANC relates to the algorithms used by the ANC circuitry. External sounds are constantly changing based on our environment. Indoors, we probably encounter lots of people speaking, while outdoors we could be faced with traffic sounds, and on an airplane, it’s mostly the white noise of a jet’s engines. Many companies offer smartphone apps that let you select the appropriate ANC mode based on your surroundings, but Adaptive ANC systems attempt to analyze those changing sounds and shift modes automatically so that you’ll always have an optimized noise-canceling experience.
What makes one set of ANC headphones better than another? This is the million-dollar question. The honest answer is everything. ANC is much more than just external and internal microphones combined with some circuitry. It’s the number, placement, and kind of microphones used. It’s the quality of the electronics used to tie the components together. It’s the sophistication of the noise-canceling algorithms, and it’s the sensitivity of the drivers used to produce both sound and anti-noise.
Because ANC is so complex, buyers need to beware of manufacturer claims like the amount of noise canceled as expressed in decibels (dB). You may see a set of ANC headphones that claims to cancel -35dB of noise. But what does that mean? Unwanted sound isn’t just measured in loudness — it’s also composed of a spectrum of frequencies. If the ANC system reduces high-frequency sounds by -35dB, but hardly reduces low-frequency sounds at all, is that good or bad? If you’re trying to block out the sounds of the neighbor’s kids (or maybe your kids) shrieking while they play, it could be very helpful. But since most of us aren’t going to want to wear different headphones to block different noises, it’s probably not the right choice.
Our advice, you will not be surprised to hear, is to read reviews, both professional and buyer-based, to learn how your chosen model deals with a variety of situations.
What can I expect from a good set of ANC headphones? Sony Any ANC headphones or earbuds that are worth having should produce an immediate and very noticeable reduction in external noise. Most ANC headphones also have a transparency mode too, which is designed to let lots of noise in (so you can maintain awareness of hazards or have conversations without removing the cans). In an ideal world, transparency mode makes you feel like you aren’t wearing headphones at all.
When you turn transparency and ANC off, things should get much quieter, but you’ll still be fairly aware of outside sounds. Turning ANC on should substantially reduce those remaining sounds. In some cases, ANC can make a sound (like the droning of a fan) disappear completely, leaving you with an almost perfect sense of calm and quiet.
What are some signs of bad ANC headphones? The first and most obvious sign is that switching the ANC function on does little to dampen the sounds you were hearing before switching it on. This may seem obvious, but we’ve tried some models where it was almost impossible to tell when ANC was engaged.
Another problem is that ANC can start to affect the quality of your music. Remember, the same speakers that produce your tunes are also producing the anti-noise that cancels unwanted sounds. If the ANC system is too aggressive, poorly tuned, or might be suffering from any number of other weaknesses, you may find that music sounds noticeably worse when ANC is turned on.
Finally, poorly designed ANC circuitry can actually introduce new noise even as it tries to cancel unwanted noise. This most often shows up as a hissing sound that you can hear when you’re not listening to any content. Playing music can mask this hiss, but if you want to use your headphones as an alternative to earplugs, that audible hiss is guaranteed to drive you crazy.
What about Environmental Noise Cancellation (ENC)? When reading product descriptions, pay specific attention to terms like Environmental Noise Cancellation (ENC), Clear Voice Calling (CvC), or noise-canceling (without the “active”). These are all references to noise-canceling performed by microphone circuitry to diminish the effect of background sounds when you’re talking to someone on a call or using your headphones to record your voice.
It’s definitely a feature you want in a set of headphones or earbuds if you plan to use them for voice calls, but it is not a different form of active noise cancellation and it won’t make any difference at all to the amount of noise that you hear when listening to music, or just wearing the headphones.
Editors' Recommendations Your next noise-canceling earbuds may use Navy sonar tech The best noise-canceling headphones of 2023: Bose, Sony, and more Best Bose 700 Headphone deals: Save $80 at Best Buy Best AirPods Max deals: Get the noise-canceling headphones for $384 Sennheiser’s new budget-friendly headphones get a very high-end feature Mobile Headphones Audio / Video Bose has debuted its latest QuietComfort wireless headphones and earbuds -- the Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones ($429) and Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds ($299). They feature new designs, new materials, and in keeping with the industry's recent obsession with spatial audio, the new models are equipped with Bose Immersive Audio, Bose's version of the 3D audio experience that Apple helped to popularize with its AirPods Pro. The Ultra models also have Qualcomm's Snapdragon Sound platform, which enables hi-res or lossless CD-quality audio via the aptX Adaptive Bluetooth codec when used with compatible Android smartphones.
The new Ultra models replace the Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 and the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II (QCE II) as the company's wireless audio flagships. Bose has also introduced a successor to the Bose QuietComfort 45 Headphones, known simply as the Bose QuietComfort Headphones ($349). All three models will be available in black or white, with an additional limited-edition green color for the QuietComfort Headphones. The Ultra models start shipping in October, with the QuietComfort Headphones arriving a little earlier, on September 21. Preorders for all three models start September 14 on bose.com.
Bose Immersive Audio Bose says its immersive audio system creates a wider, more spacious soundstage for all kinds of content. And similar to the Dolby Audio spatial option on the recently released Jabra Elite 10 wireless earbuds, Bose's system uses sensors to enable optional head tracking.
Audio / Video Jabra Elite 10. Jabra Jabra has launched two new models of wireless earbuds -- it's new flagship, the Jabra Elite 10 ($249), and a new ultra-rugged model, the Elite 8 Active ($199) -- targeted at those with active lifestyles. Each is equipped active noise cancellation (ANC) and Dolby audio -- the Elite 8 Active get Dolby spatial sound, while the Elite 10 get Dolby Atmos with head tracking for an even more immersive listening experience.
Audio / Video Marshall's second-gen Motif ANC wireless earbuds -- appropriately called the Marshall Motif II ANC -- look exactly like the first-gen Motif, but under the hood are some welcome enhancements like better battery life, better active noise cancellation (ANC) performance, and support for Bluetooth LE Audio. The price, on the other hand, remains the same: you can buy them staring August 29 for $199 on Marshall's website. The company expects them to ship on September 12.
Marshall has a talent for understatement. Its press release for the Marshall Motif II ANC talks about the improved battery life twice -- the new earbuds now get six hours of ANC playtime on a charge and a total of 30 hours with the case (versus 4.5 and 20 on the first-gen) -- but never mentions that the new Motif now have Bluetooth Multipoint for connecting two devices simultaneously.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
