Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Qobuz? Music, features, and pricing explained By Michael Bizzaco Close Some audiophiles may argue that there’s no better sound quality than that achieved by physical media (and in many cases, they’re correct), but not all of us can afford the turntables , amplifiers, hi-fi speakers , and towering vinyl record and CD collections that go into a connoisseur’s setup. But thanks to music-streaming platforms like Qobuz, we can all listen to ultra-high-quality audio, and for a price that doesn’t keep us up at night.
What is Qobuz? How much is Qobuz? How do you sign up for Qobuz? How do you use Qobuz? How do you buy music with Qobuz? What is Qobuz’s audio quality like? What devices support Qobuz? What is Qobuz missing? Here’s everything you need to know about one of the coolest music-streaming platforms in town. Just don’t tell your vinyl-collecting diehard pals you read this guide.
The Qobuz app’s home screen.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends What is Qobuz? Qobuz is a music-streaming platform with access to over 100 million songs, all of which are available in the hi-res FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec) format. As far as quality goes, it’s tough to beat the kind of clarity, dynamic range, and definition you’ll hear on a Qobuz track, with the catalog being available from CD-quality (16-bit at 44.1kHz) up to 24-bit at 192kHz.
Desktop and mobile apps are available, but you can also use Qobuz’s browser-based web player. The platform offers two subscription tiers (covered below), algorithmic recommendations, album liner notes, and a host of other features.
SiriusXM reboots satellite radio with new app, features — and price What is Apple Music? Music, pricing, and features explained What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more How much is Qobuz? Qobuz offers two main subscriptions : Studio and Sublime. The former currently goes for $13 per month (or $130 annually) for its Solo tier and will net you nearly all the benefits one can get from the platform, including access to the entire library, offline downloads, and 24-bit 192kHz FLAC songs and albums (when available).
Studio also has a Duo tier for two people ($18 per month) and a Family tier for up to six users at the same address for $22 per month.
Sublime comes with all the same base perks as Studio, plus up to 60% off many download purchases and its Solo tier starts at $15 per month. Sublime also has a Duo tier for two people ($22.49 per month) and a Family tier for $29.17 per month.
How do you sign up for Qobuz? You can download the Qobuz mobile app for iOS and Android devices. There’s also a desktop app for Windows and macOS computers and a browser-based web player.
 We signed up for the service on the Qobuz website and tested the user interface and music playback through the macOS desktop app on a late 2020 MacBook Pro and the iOS app on an iPhone 12.
Once you’ve entered your email and password, you’ll be taken to a personalization screen where you’ll be asked if you’d like to receive news and special offers from Qobuz and its affiliates. This panel also lets you pick a few of your favorite music genres to help Qobuz curate content for you. After you’ve completed creating your account, you’ll be taken to a Qobuz launch screen, where you’ll be able to download whatever desktop app your machine supports, or launch the web player.
Similar to Deezer , Qobuz (in partnership with Soundiiz) also offers a playlist transfer feature, which you should see a banner for at the bottom of the screen. You can also find the tool on the Soundiiz website.
Michael Bizzaco / Digital Trends How do you use Qobuz? Qobuz’s desktop app offers an exceptional user interface. After launching, you’ll be on the Discover screen, which is broken up into a few sections. Under New Releases you’ll be able to see all the platform’s newest albums, with hi-res Studio offerings labeled accordingly (there’ll be a hi-res logo placed next to the entry). Scroll down a bit to find the Tailored For You player. Every Friday, Qobuz will compile a new list of tracks based on your musical tastes and listening history.
Scroll down a bit further to find The Qobuz Playlists , a collection of platform playlists that you can filter by format, release date, artists, and a few other categories. At the bottom of the Discover panel is a section called The Taste of Qobuz , which pairs handpicked Qobuz artists and albums with incredible synopses of the chosen material.
You’ll see five other tabs at the top of the app. From left to right (after Discover ), these are Magazine , My Playlists , Favorites, Purchases, and Offline Library.
Magazine is an amazing hub for the written word, featuring news, interviews, op-eds, retrospectives, and hi-fi listening tutorials and guides.
The Magazine Tab in the Qobuz desktop app.
Michael Bizzaco / Digital Trends My Playlists is where all of your liked playlists are stored, as well as where you’ll go to create your very own. You can also build collaborative playlists that you can share with other Qobuz users.
Favorites is where all of your favorited tracks and artists are stored, and Purchases is where you’ll be able to find any album you’ve downloaded. Then there’s Offline Library , which is where any track, album, or playlist you’ve imported for internet-free access lives. You can also search for songs, artists, albums, and playlists using the search field next to Offline Library.
When you’re listening to a song, playback controls are located at the bottom of the app. You’ll also be able to choose what audio quality the track or album streams at (capped at hi-res 24-bit/up to 192kHz where applicable). A speaker icon is what you’ll click to manage Qobuz’s audio output options. The last button on the playback ribbon is labeled Play Queue.
 Click to see what track you’re currently playing, what tracks Qobuz has lined up for you next, and what you’ve listened to in the past.
The Play Queue in the Qobuz desktop app.
Michael Bizzaco / Digital Trends Searching for a particular artist is particularly impressive because Qobuz builds out a full-fledged dashboard for the group. For example, Metallica’s Qobuz page is filled with the band’s most popular tracks, all albums listed chronologically, links to Magazine pieces, suggestions for similar artists, and more.
Overall, navigation is smooth and simple, and all artists and albums are laid out in a very organized manner. The same goes for the iOS app. Its five main tabs are listed at the bottom of the Home Screen, which are Discover , Magazine , My Qobuz (a combination of Favorites and My Playlists ), Imports (a different name for Offline Library ), and Search.
Swiping from one screen to the next is quick and responsive, as is selecting songs and artists, and running searches for content.
The Qobuz app for iOS.
Michael Bizzaco / Digital Trends We also tested Qobuz’s browser-based player and dashboard, which is nearly identical to the desktop app in appearance and navigation but runs just a tad bit slower.
How do you buy music with Qobuz? The Buy option in the Qobuz desktop app.
Michael Bizzaco / Digital Trends One of the best parts of Qobuz is that you can purchase entire albums in hi-res Audio without a subscription. Of course, this service is available to Studio and Sublime members, too. You can also purchase tunes through the desktop app or the Qobuz site.
To do so, search for the song or album you want to download. Once found, tap the three dots icon next to it and click Buy.
 You’ll then be asked if you’d like to purchase the album in CD quality or whatever the best hi-res format is. As mentioned in our pricing section, you’ll notice that hi-res downloads are significantly cheaper with the Sublime subscription.
Once your purchase is complete, the tracks or album will be downloaded to your PC.
Purchasing music with Qobuz.
Michael Bizzaco / Digital Trends What is Qobuz’s audio quality like? For a music platform that’s wholly dedicated to audiophile listening, Qobuz truly lives up to its hi-fi promise. All of the platform’s 100 million-plus songs are available in lossless FLAC, with some of it offered up in CD-quality (16-bit at 44.1kHz) and much of it, according to Qobuz, at up to 24-bit 192kHz hi-res quality. Keep in mind, though, that to experience this audio quality you will need to use headphones or a speaker system and likely a digital-to-analog converter (DAC) that can support it. We have a great explainer on all you need that you should check out.
Depending on the song and artist, the hi-res libraries of both Tidal and Amazon Music Unlimited may give Qobuz a little more competition. We’re not playing favorites, but if you’re running your tunes through an external DAC that feeds out to hi-fi speakers, Qobuz is one of the best platform choices you can make.
What devices support Qobuz? In addition to desktop and mobile apps, Qobuz is supported by a mighty pantheon of hi-fi brands , including Cambridge Audio, Sonos, Bluesound, JBL, LG, KEF, Klipsch, McIntosh, NAD, and many more.
You’ll also be able to download the Qobuz app on Samsung Smart TVs and can use the platform through CarPlay and Android Auto for a bit of vehicular listening.
What is Qobuz missing? Qobuz is an incredible streamer for audio enthusiasts and layman listeners alike, but it’s missing a few elements that competitive streamers are lauded for.
For one, the Dolby Atmos format is nowhere to be found, giving platforms like Tidal , Apple Music , and Amazon Music Unlimited an immediate leg-up for listeners wanting to experience their favorite tunes via the premium codec.
Unfortunately, Qobuz is also missing video content and podcasts, (which can be found on multiple competitive streamers), and is pretty light on the social aspect of listening. This may not be a big deal for some, but if you’re looking to see what your pals have been listening to, a platform like Spotify might be a better fit.
At this time, Qobuz also doesn’t offer any native support for Alexa, Google Assistant, or Apple HomeKit.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music What is DirecTV Stream: plans, pricing, channels, and more How much is Apple Music, and how can you get it for free? What is a network music streamer and why do you need one? Best network music streamers 2023: make your hi-fi smarter Music Streaming Services Audio / Video The best speakers come in all shapes and sizes, but if you’re looking for the Goldilocks middle-ground between “bite-sized” and “monolithic,” we’re betting that a solid set of bookshelf speakers will fit the bill. As the name indicates, these are speakers that are usually no taller than a foot or two, making them ideal for placing on, er, bookshelves, speaker stands, and even certain types of wall mounts.
But like all things audio, not every set of bookshelf speakers is created equal. There are speaker brands and models that sell for less than $150, and flagship brands that will run you over $2,000. There are also some bookshelf speakers that are best used for computer setups, while others are best relegated to the back of a surround sound system.
Audio / Video Spotify has over 220 million subscribers and access to an immense library of artists, albums, podcasts, and audiobooks. A go-to music-streaming platform, Spotify is available on just about every desktop and mobile device one can think of. While it's a phenomenal way to enjoy your favorite tunes, it's certainly not the only music streamer in town. In fact, if you're committed to listening to only the best-sounding audio, Tidal may be a better fit. With its emphasis on hi-res content, Tidal is also home to a giant archive of music and video content.
But is one of these music streaming platforms truly the better of the two? To find out, we compared Spotify and Tidal, focusing on criteria like price, sound quality, and supported devices.
Price Audio / Video Spotify is the first name that comes to mind when you think of music-streaming apps. Love it or hate it, Spotify is currently the most popular music-streaming service, boasting 551 million users and more than 220 million subscribers, putting it ahead of competitors like Apple Music. But what exactly is Spotify, and how does it really work? We're answering all your questions with this deep dive into what you can expect from Spotify.
What is Spotify? If you spend even a little time online, you've probably heard of Spotify. It's a popular free and paid music-streaming service founded in Stockholm in 2006 by Swedish friends Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon. Fun fact: the name happened by fluke when the partners were shouting names back and forth from different rooms in Ek's Stockholm flat, and Ek misheard one of Lorentzon's suggestions as "Spotify." They later backtracked the meaning as a combination of spot and identify, and there you have it.
Spotify today is a behemoth of a streaming service that also offers access to podcasts, videos, and highly tailored playlists driven by your unique usage. With several plan tiers to choose from, Spotify's free version lets you listen to unlimited music, podcasts, and even videos, so you can explore your taste without shelling out a thing, but you do have to endure ads and limited functionality (more on that below). It does offer much more robust paid options (more below, too), but the free version is more than enough for the casual listener.
Spotify is also quite device-versatile, so you can use it on your smartphone, tablet, computer, laptop, TV, smartwatch, gaming console, and even in your car. You get the expected, intuitive controls like play/pause, next/previous, loop a song/playlist, and save favorites. But that's not all. There's a lot that Spotify offers, so let's break down what you can look forward to.
Spotify features: music, podcasts, and more Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
