Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Tidal? The hi-fi streaming music service fully explained By Simon Cohen and Tyler Lacoma Close Most big-name music streaming services have a lot in common.
Apple Music , Spotify, Amazon Music , Pandora, and YouTube Music all have similar choices in music and quality — it’s just a matter of picking your preferred platform.
What is Tidal? How much does Tidal cost, and what’s included? How does Tidal Masters work? What is Dolby Atmos Music? Can I buy music through Tidal? Which speakers, devices, and software work with Tidal? Tidal extras Tidal, on the other hand, breaks the mold. The business structure emphasizes the artists having more control over the platform, and it offers higher-quality audio in comparison to the big names. We have all the details on how this service works so you can decide if it’s right for you.
What is Tidal? Image used with permission by copyright holder Tidal is a music streaming subscription service with a catalog of tens of millions of songs, which includes exclusives. It also has a variety of podcasts, music videos, live concert recordings, and professionally curated playlists. As with most streaming services, it’s accessible on a wide variety of devices, including computers, smartphones, tablets, smart speakers, and platforms like Apple TV and Android TV. However, Tidal has a couple of different focuses that help it stand apart.
How much is Apple Music, and how can you get it for free? Best network music streamers 2023: make your hi-fi smarter What is Spotify? Music, pricing, and features explained Tidal was originally owned by a group of musicians, including Alicia Keys, Beyoncé, Jack White, Kanye, Madonna, Rihanna, Daft Punk, Chris Martin of Coldplay, and others. In 2021, Square purchased Tidal for around $300 million, ending this artist-based ownership, although its influence still remains. Tidal is a very artist-friendly platform compared to other options, and for paid subscriptions, a portion of up to 10% of the subscription is specifically directed toward your most-listened artists in addition to their royalties.
Second, in addition to its free tier for streaming up to 160Kbps, Tidal has more expensive HiFi and HiFi Plus options that bumps up the entire catalog to lossless, CD-quality audio, and a limited catalog of hi-res music , including Hifi and Master, as well as Tidal’s own Master Quality formatting available with the HiFi Plus plan. It also supports Dolby Atmos and Sony’s 360 Reality audio for spatial audio properties. While other services have started to include lossless audio and similar benefits, Tidal still offers the best audio quality for casual listening without paying fees (more on this below) How much does Tidal cost, and what’s included? When Tidal first started, it did not include a free version like Spotify and some others offer. The only way to access content was to pay for a plan. In 2021, Tidal changed this approach, offering a free version of its music service with occasional ads (currently, Tidal doesn’t have third-party ads, just reminders to sign up for a plan). But if you are interested in upgrading to a subscription, these are the available plans: HiFi — $10.99 per month : This removes ads while allowing for 1411Kbps sound quality.
HiFi Plus — $19.99 per mont h: This adds lossless High Fidelity and Master Quality Authenticated (MQA) support, along with Dolby Atmos and 360 Reality Audio support.
Family HiFi — $16.99 per month : This version allows for up to six different people on the same account but limits audio to standard sound quality.
Family HiFi Plus — $29.99 per month : Here, you get support for six different profiles, plus all the lossless and high-quality format support from the previous plans.
Tidal also offers a number of discounted plans. That includes 50% discounts for students, military discounts, and first responder discounts.
How does Tidal Masters work? DANIEL CONSTANTE/Shutterstock Tidal Masters is a collection of tracks that can be streamed in hi-res audio using the MQA codec.
 Fans of MQA argue that the format is superior to FLAC because the quality is determined by the record label, not the streaming service, and because it employs a type of compression they feel improves the sound quality of digital music. It supports up to 24-bit/96kHz file sizes, but with compression technology that doesn’t take up any more bandwidth than a CD audio file would. That makes it much easier to stream hi-res audio without worrying about eating into bandwidth or reaching data caps, which can be an issue with other services like Amazon Music HD.
To listen to Tidal Masters at full quality, though, you need a device and software that supports the MQA format. The Tidal app for iOS , Android , and desktop operating systems is an easy way to get started, but for a true audiophile experience, you’re better off looking to a third-party audio system that’s compatible with Tidal/MQA, like BlueSound , Meridian , or Roon.
Keep in mind, true hi-res audio quality is very much dependent on the last pieces of the audio delivery chain, namely the digital-to-analog converter (DAC), the amplifier, and the speakers/headphones. If any of these elements aren’t high-quality or are not compatible with hi-res audio, you won’t get the full hi-res experience.
What is Dolby Atmos Music? Dolby Atmos Music is the same object-based audio system used in cinemas and home theaters to create incredibly immersive sound experiences, but it’s been adapted for studio-recorded and live music.
Dolby Atmos is not available on all songs, but if you have a HiFi Plus subscription, you can access the format wherever it is available. With the right plan, you should be able to find suggested Dolby Atmos content in the Explore tab when logged in. To hear Dolby Atmos Music tracks at their full quality, you need an Atmos-compatible streaming device, such as an Apple TV 4K , Amazon Fire TV devices , Nvidia Shield and Shield Pro, or Chromecast with Google TV , and an Atmos-compatible A/V receiver, TV, soundbar , or wireless speaker.
Can I buy music through Tidal? Tidal used to have a download store where you could purchase and download music permanently. However, Tidal closed its store in October 2022. Those who have purchased music through the service are advised to download their purchased songs on whatever device they prefer before January 23, 2023.
Which speakers, devices, and software work with Tidal? Image used with permission by copyright holder With an active Tidal subscription, you have lots of choices when it comes to listening to or watching Tidal content.
Tidal provides its own software for use on: iOS devices and Apple Watch Android devices Roku devices Vizio Devices Macs and PCs Apple TV Android/Google TV Amazon Fire TV Samsung Smart TVs (2017 and newer) Samsung Gear watches There’s extensive support for the Tidal music service on third-party sound systems, like Sonos , Denon HEOS , BlueSound, Yamaha MusicCast , and many more. Within the dedicated apps for these systems, Tidal can be added as a streaming music source using your Tidal account login email and password.
You can also integrate Tidal content into popular media player/server software, like Plex and Roon , plus there’s a Tidal add-on for Kodi and lots of other software.
In October 2020, Tidal announced Tidal Connect , a new way of casting Tidal audio to compatible wireless speakers. Using the Tidal app as a controller, you can select a specific speaker for playback and send it the highest-quality stream possible, whether it’s lossless FLAC, MQA, or even Dolby Atmos. Tidal Connect is similar to using Chromecast or AirPlay, but these casting protocols do not support Connect’s higher-quality audio streams. Here’s a look at the devices that currently support Tidal Connect.
Then there is voice assistant compatibility to play music on Tidal via a voice command, which is a bit more limited. Tidal has added support for both Alexa and Google Assistant in past years, but Siri support is limited. While Tidal works with Siri on iPhones, the only way to play Tidal on Apple’s HomePod Mini is via AirPlay from your iOS device. The same is true for Google’s Home line of smart speakers — you can cast Tidal to them from a mobile app, but there’s no native support for Tidal, so you won’t be able to say, “Hey Google, play Nipsey Hussle on Tidal.” On Sonos smart speakers, such as the Sonos One 2nd-generation or the Sonos Ray soundbar , both Alexa Google Assistant voice assistants are supported. However, as we pointed out, you cannot add Tidal directly to Google Assistant, only to the Sonos app, which can then be controlled by Google Assistant.
Tidal extras Beyond its extensive music catalog, Tidal also offers some noteworthy extra features.
Playlists You can create, edit, and delete your own playlists from Tidal tracks. Using either Tune My Music or Soundiiz, you can import your playlists from other music services like Apple Music, Spotify, Pandora, Soundcloud, YouTube, Google Play Music, and more. Tidal also publishes and maintains its own collection of playlists organized by mood and genre. Moods are often activity-oriented, like driving, focus, relax, or party, while genres are the more traditional categories like dance, metal, jazz, and rap.
If you want a playlist created for you, Tidal’s My Mix feature uses an algorithm to build playlists based on the kind of music that you like. You’ll need to listen to music for a while so that My Mix can get an accurate read, but otherwise, it’s very effective at building instant playlists and making new suggestions. While Tidal used to provide playlists curated by experts like Jay-Z , this effort has dwindled in recent years, although you can find older curated lists from a variety of artists.
Tidal Magazine Image used with permission by copyright holder Just as impressive as the human-curated playlists are Tidal’s collection of articles and interviews found in its Magazine section.
 These range from album reviews like Patterson Hood’s take on Bruce Springsteen’s Western Stars to Alan Light’s deep dive into the forces that shaped Prince’s obsession with perfection.
 These aren’t just hot takes on the latest trends — they’re considered posts by those who know music best: musicians, producers, and expert journalists.
Podcasts While Tidal’s collection of podcasts doesn’t match that of Spotify or other platforms, it does have an eclectic library with a variety of topics, especially podcasts that examine new music or books and interview artists and authors.
Videos Speaking of videos, this is one area where Tidal really shines. With over 450,000 music videos, live concert recordings, and special shows like In Praise of Prince, Rough Draft , and Fresh Cuts , it’s worth downloading the Tidal app to a video device like Apple TV or Android TV so you can experience these videos on the big screen. However, videos are not available on the free version of the service — you’ll need to pay for a subscription to access them. You can also get access to livestreaming concerts thanks to Tidal Rising, which spotlights rising artists via a partnership with Horizon Worlds, a Meta virtual venue project.
Early Access In 2022 Tidal also announced an Early Access program available only to its HiFi Plus subscribers on iPhone and (eventually) Android. This program is currently available on the TestFlight app. This is a new way to try beta features coming to Tidal in the future, including the ability to provide feedback on the experience.
Editors' Recommendations What is Apple Music? Music, pricing, and features explained What is a network music streamer and why do you need one? Tidal vs. Spotify: Which music streaming service has the features you need? What is MQA? The controversial digital audio format fully explained What is Qobuz? Music, features, and pricing explained Music Streaming Services Audio / Video When it comes to music-streaming services, would it surprise you to learn that there was a time when platforms like Spotify, Apple Music, and Tidal didn’t even exist? Back in these prehistoric days, our melodically inclined ancestors were stuck with things called “radio,” “CDs,” and "vinyl," the latter of which is actually doing really well at the moment. That is until services like iTunes and a mighty savior called Pandora arrived to transition mankind from its pit of musical starvation to a haven of harmonies.
Believe it or not, Pandora is still around today, and it’s still a pretty good way to enjoy your favorite tunes, albums, and podcasts. Whether this is the first time you’re hearing about the service, or you want a refresher on everything Pandora has to offer, we’ve put together this guide to address the platform’s most salient features.
Audio / Video We’re all familiar with music-streaming platforms like Spotify and Apple Music. These streaming titans are tried and tested, but ther are definitely more out there to choose from. And we have to ask ourselves: Is there any music streamer that goes the extra mile for its listeners, especially in terms of audio quality and personalized recommendations? As a matter of fact, there is, and it’s called Deezer.
Deezer has actually been around for more than 15 years, and it’s the kind of streamer that prioritizes premium sound, but at a cost that most of us can wrap our heads around. There’s a lot to know about Deezer, so we’ve created this helpful guide to give you a solid idea of what the platform is all about.
What is Deezer? Audio / Video When it comes to smart TVs, these monolithic QLEDs and OLEDs require an internet connection to get you connected to services like Netflix and Disney+. But like any good computer or mobile phone, there’s an operating system taking care of apps, navigation, and all things user interface-oriented behind the scenes. For Samsung TVs, this OS is called Tizen, for LG TVs, it’s webOS, and for brands like Sony, TCL, and Hisense, it used to be called Android TV, but now (for the most part) it’s called Google TV.
While Google TV is really just an evolutionary leap based on the building blocks of Android TV, you’ll still see the Android TV moniker on a modern TV or two. Many modern home theater projectors also use the Android TV OS. That being said, it’s a platform that’s still relevant. Here’s everything you need to know about Android TV.
An important note on Android TV and Google TV Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
