Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best outdoor projectors 2023: for backyards, camping, and more By Tyler Lacoma Close The best home theater projectors specialize in delivering a cinematic experience in your living room, but some models have an added talent – offering portable ways to easily share movies or shows outdoors. These projectors are typically smaller, include their own rechargeable battery, and are designed to stream from apps right on your phone. That makes them perfect for outdoor movie nights , projecting a favorite show on a camping tent wall, and other outside fun.
If you’re looking for a projector just like this, we’ve chosen the absolute best available so you’ll be ready for years of outdoor cinema. Take a look! Note: The most common way to use portable projectors like these is via screencasting from your phone or using a smart platform. But some streaming services like Netflix may limit or block screencasting options and may not be available on every platform. If you plan on streaming from an app like this, look for a projector that has its own smart platform or that can download an app workaround (we have several on our list). You’ll also want a reliable Wi-Fi connection, or at least a no-cap data connection, for this to work.
More More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder BenQ GS50 Wireless Outdoor Projector Best overall outdoor projector Durable design for outdoor use Android TV support Auto focus and other automatic improvements Fast USB-C charging for internal battery Lumens are pretty low, so it's for dark environments only If you’re serious about taking your projector on adventures, there’s no model better suited than this sturdy BenQ model, which is one of the only portable projectors to include splashproof and drop-proof ratings as well as a carrying strap, making it the perfect pick for camping and similar outdoor activities. It offers a 1080p picture with two built-in 5-watt speakers, including a 10W woofer for bass boost.
The projector also benefits from BenQ’s experience in the projector field, with features like HDR10/HLG support, picture and gaming modes, and auto-focus, as well as auto keystone adjustment (important features when you are projecting outside instead of in a room). We also love to see Android TV support, a platform that makes streaming from a wide variety of sources much easier, as well as adding some support for Google Assistant.
Battery recharging is also easy here, thanks to the USB-C PD port for fast charging when necessary. The lumens are a little low at 500L, so it’s definitely designed to be used in the evening or in darker environments, but that’s not usually a problem for outdoor projecting plans.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Anker Nebula Cosmos Laser 4K Best high-end outdoor projector Excellent 4K picture Very bright for an outdoor projector Auto-correction modes Android TV Internal speaker array for better-than-average sound Very, very expensive If you want an outdoor projector that can mimic an indoor experience, nothing will work better than the powerful Anker Nebula Cosmos Laser, with its 4K laser projector capabilities and high lumens brightness for an outdoor projector. A sub-brand of Anker, Nebula makes great portable projectors. The Cosmos is a model that can handle outdoor movies even when the sun hasn’t finished setting yet and is of the best options for larger movie events and gatherings.
The projector can upscale to 150 inches with a large enough screen and was designed for easy carrying and automatic adaption to the environment. Along with the carrying handle, you’ll also find this projecto has built-in sound, with two 10W speakers and 5W tweeters to provide audio to those nearby. In larger setups, you may want to work on connecting larger speakers, but for smaller movie nights, this should be a fine alternative.
The Cosmos also uses the Android TV platform for easily navigating your streaming options, completing this impressive outdoor package. The only major downside — aside from the very steep cost — is that there’s no built-in battery, so you’ll have to bring your own power pack along to charge it or use it on a patio or in a similar area that still has access to an outlet.
More Best cheap headphones and earbuds 2023: Jabra, 1More, and others Save $130 on this top-rated Epson home theater projector with Android TV The best soundbars of 2023: a sound upgrade for your TV Epson Epson EpiqVision Mini EF12 Best outdoor projector for great color 4K resolution Great color and brightness technology Plentiful ports Android TV No internal battery Epson’s portable projector is ready to cast an image up to 150 inches and at 4K resolution, but what really draws us to this model is its built-in color and brightness capabilities, which make it a great choice if you want to watch outdoors but don’t want to give up on the image quality you could get inside. Features include MicroLaser Array for better brightness and contrast, Scene Adaptive Color Correction, and HDR support.
This is another model that you’ll need to bring a power pack along for if there’s no nearby outlet, but thanks to the two HDMI ports and USB-A ports, you’ll have plenty of additional connection options for working with other devices. And the Android TV platform offers plenty of usability on its own, too.
Stereo sound is courtesy of Yamaha speakers, and the projector was designed to function as a Bluetooth speaker even when not playing movies. That makes it an ideal companion for frequent outings to a deck, patio, or rooftop for evening fun.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Xgimi Halo+ Best compact outdoor projector Very portable Two and a half-hour battery Brighter than many picks at 900 lumens AI object avoidance and screen alignment Android TV Speakers aren't especially powerful This highly portable projector can do a little of everything, and thanks to the built-in battery for up to two and a half hours of playtime, you can take it just about anywhere for easy viewing whenever you like. The 1080p resolution and 900 lumens don’t hurt either, especially on a projector this compact.
This is also a projector that’s well aware that it’s going to be on the road or at least nearby an uneven lawn. It comes with auto keystone correction, AI object avoidance, autofocus, and intelligent screen alignment. That equals a quick setup and less wasted time, made even easier with the Android TV 10.0 interface.
The two 5W speakers here are nice for close-up sound, and if you’re watching in a tent or quiet outdoor area, it probably won’t be an issue. There’s an HDMI port, USB 2.0 port, and headphone jack in the back to increase your options, but the real value here is the ability to take the speaker anywhere with such ease.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Anker Nebula Capsule Best outdoor projector for battery life Four-hour battery life Small design for easy carrying Up to 4K resolution in the right circumstances Best in smaller, dark spaces Anker has a number of Nebula models to pick from. In addition to the high-end Cosmos version we recommend above for a bright, 4K experience, this midrange model offers a great alternative: a much, much lower price while still serving as a tiny portable projector.
The lumens are certainly low on this model, so you’ll want to save it for truly dark environments and switch off any nearby lights, but then this little projector is capable of a 100-inch image with a very impressive four-hour playback time on its battery. It also runs an older version of Android TV that still provides the necessary smart platform benefits for easy content management. Ports include two HDMI as well as USB.
This bite-sized projector is a better fit for small, dark spaces, such as a cozy date-night tent outdoors, a dark back seat on a long car ride, and similar spots. But if you’re willing to sacrifice a little, you’ll get great battery life in a super-portable package.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder DBPower L23 Projector Best budget outdoor projector Under $200 Wi-Fi and Bluetooth support Large 300-inch image Speakers are great No internal battery Fan is a bit noisy If none of the models on our list have felt like budget picks yet, you’ll be pleased to see this DBPower projector landing at under $200 while still being ready to take on the go. In fact, it even comes with a carrying case to tote it around more easily. You can connect devices with Wi-Fi or Bluetooth, as well as more traditional ports like USB, HDMI, and even VGA for some classic setups.
The projector holds its own with a 1080p resolution and a screen size that you can adjust up to 300 inches. However, you may want to connect some external speakers, especially since the fan can be a bit noisy on this model. And you’re not going to get an internal battery on a model like this, so plan accordingly. Overall, it’s a good budget pick to save some money while still picking a projector you can take out to the yard every now and then for a special movie night.
More Editors' Recommendations The best projectors for 2023: from 4K to ultra short throw The best kids headphones of 2023: for fun, safety, and more Best gaming TVs of 2023 for Xbox Series X, PS5, and more Save $300 on this Epson 4K home cinema projector today Best headphones for 2023: Sony, Bose, Apple, and more Best Products Audio / Video Noise-canceling headphones are a wonder of the modern world. No, seriously, the tech that makes them work is borderline magical, bringing much-needed quiet to our everyday bus and plane rides, study and work sessions, and movie, music, and podcast enjoyment. The best noise canceling headphones have a great mix of features, including that all-important ANC, transparency mode for letting in some outside sounds, comfort, battery life, and, of course, price.
While active noise cancellation has been around for a while now and it's almost standard in headphones from over-ear models (our focus here) to earbuds, the feature is better in some types of devices than in others. Whatever your listening needs may be, though, we've got you covered.
Audio / Video Wires are so old school, especially when it comes to headphones. Unless you're an audiophile who must have the peak possible hi-res sound quality that, with a few exceptions, can only be achieved with a set of wired headphones, then getting yourself a pair of the best wireless headphones is an absolute must. Don't misunderstand us: wireless headphones sound fantastic, and they're packed with features such as active noise cancellation (ANC), transparency modes for hearing the outside world the way you want to, excellent call quality, Bluetooth multipoint connectivity and more.
We're always looking for the best wireless headphones, and we also take comfort, audio quality, and battery life seriously. For this roundup, we're focusing on wireless headphones of the over-ear variety. For the best wireless earbuds, we've got a roundup of those, too.
Audio / Video There’s nothing better than the satisfying rumble and punchy performance of a well-chosen subwoofer that is set up properly. There’s also nothing worse than the muddy undertones and overdriven nature of a sub that doesn’t quite cut the mustard (but may have been easy on the wallet).
When it comes to home theater sound, a subwoofer is like the unifying force that bolsters the performance of your system’s main speakers by dealing with a majority of the low-end heft on its own. Plus, there’s no way you’re going to get the kind of guttural tones a sub is capable of from a traditional floor-standing or bookshelf speaker. But, like any other speaker purchase, facing down the hundreds of woofer options can be even more confusing than buying any other part of your new surround sound system, which is why we decided to put together this roundup in the first place.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
