Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best projector screens By Tyler Lacoma Close Everyone likes to kick back, relax, and watch a movie or TV show at home. But if you've ever found that sometimes your regular TV just doesn’t cut it when the characters and action on-screen are larger than life, and you want a screen size that can accommodate them, that’s where projectors and projector screens come in.
As a rule, if you have a home projector, you really need a projector screen. We know using a blank wall can be tempting when you're in a hurry, but it's not a good idea. Typical home walls or sheets won't allow you to see the resolution, contrast, and color detail that you paid for. A screen is an ideal companion, and our first pick is the versatile Elite Screens ezFrame 2 Series , but we have several other choices for different situations.
If you're interested in watching an outdoor movie instead, we suggest heading over to our selection of the best outdoor projector screens.
More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder 100-inch Elite Screens ezFrame 2 Series Best overall projector screen High-quality material Black velvet-coated frame Versatile size options 3D ready Expensive Elite Screen's ezFrame series fixed-frame projection screen is a top choice for many, and we can see why. With 135 inches of total viewing space, the ezFrame's 16:9 aspect ratio provides a superb viewing experience for pretty much anything you can throw at it. The ezFrame offers a display that’s good for both 4K Ultra HD and Active 3D projection, should you have the projector to do it, and the moiré-free screen material offers color neutrality with its CineGrey color.
On the sound front, this AcousticPro transparent screen is designed to be suitable for both a hidden speaker or rear-speaker setup, which allows audio through the screen for a more lifelike experience. Framed screens like these may take a little extra installation work — and they are designed to be largely permanent — but it's one of the best-quality screens you can find and an excellent option for a permanent home or venue setup.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 100-inch Silver Ticket Products STR Series 6 Best for easy setup Incredible variety of size options Heavy-duty aluminum frame Installation designed to be easy for newbies Limited color options Another excellent framed projector screen, the Silver Ticket uses a 1:1 gain white screen material, which is often better for showing bright, vivid colors than gray or black screens, especially if you have a good handle on ambient light. This screen also has one of the best selection ranges we've seen, offering an incredible variety of sizes so you can pick the best option for your home theater space or the very special wall that you've chosen in your living room (just remember to place your projector properly for the image size). If you are working with a brighter room, you can also adjust the color to a darker shade to help improve contrast and more.
The frame itself is made of heavy-duty aluminum wrapped in black, so reflections won't be an issue. Silver Ticket Products offers instructional videos for installation via its tension rod system, so it's particularly easy for newcomers to understand how to set everything up. It's a great pick for nearly every kind of indoor projector.
More Best Black Friday AirPods Deals: Get Apple’s earbuds for $59 The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Image used with permission by copyright holder 120-inch Elite Screens Sable Frame 2 Series Best for cinephiles Wide 180-degree viewing angle ISF certified for accurate color reproduction Excellent for commercial use No darker shades to choose from While this Elite Screens model is also available in a variety of sizes, we chose a larger version this time to highlight this option for those who want a larger projection for a more cinematic experience. It also boasts a particularly wide 180-degree viewing angle for projector screens. The black-wrapped aluminum frame is sturdy, and the sliding wall brackets allow for small but important horizontal adjustments after installation.
This screen is an excellent pick for 4K or 8K content, is ISF certified for accurate color reproduction, and will look great nearly anywhere. Keep in mind that this particular model comes in CineWhite UHD-B for a realistic cinematic experience, and there aren't many darker shades to choose from, which could cause issues in a particularly bright-lit room if you're interested in vivid colors. Otherwise, this screen is at home anywhere.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder 120-inch Elite Screens Evanesce B Best in-ceiling projector Beautiful recessed ceiling design 180-degree viewing angle Durable aluminum casing Design requires rigorous installation with ceiling room This Elite Screens model is made from MaxWhite fiberglass for extra strength while staying lightweight, offering an excellent 180-degree viewing angle and uniform diffusion while producing extraordinary definition, natural color reproduction, and high levels of black and white contrast.
This is also a recessed model that stays out of the way until you need it, but the electric motor and remote controls make controlling it very easy, which is why we're also comfortable recommending a larger screen size for a truer cinematic experience. The screen is protected by an aluminum casing when not in use.
There's a small catch, however — this model is made specifically for in-ceiling installation, which means it'll take a little extra work and you'll need some clearance above your ceiling to have enough room. The results are spectacular, but if that sounds like a little bit too much work for you, we encourage you to explore other Evanesce models, which have a couple of different design options that all offer similar benefits.
More Frequently Asked Questions The price tag for a projection screen can vary based on a few things, including size, screen material, motorized versus pull-down, inflatable, etc. Expect to pay several hundred dollars for a high-quality home screen.
What makes pull-down projector screens great is that they're very adjustable when it comes to height and the ways of installation. Most pull-down projectors can be installed on a wall or ceiling, although you will need enough room.
The simple answer is "yes." But using a projector without a screen will decrease the quality of the viewable image. A simple white wall will definitely provide a good surface for an image to be projected, but there are definitely some downsides to it. A wall does not reflect light nearly as well as a projector screen. You'll be giving up many of the benefits your home projector has.
That depends on several things. Whiter screens are designed for vivid, accurate colors. Black screens help with contrast and may be better choices in bright areas. Gray screens come in many shades and are somewhere in between. Always match your screen color with the room.
No. You will still have the texture of the wall, which can cause a variety of issues with picture quality.
That depends on your space and your home projector. Many are fans of 100-inch to 120-inch screens because they provide a cinematic experience, but you'll need the space for them.
Projectors are much more cost-effective, at least in terms of screen size for your dollar. You can get a decent HD projector and a 100-inch screen for under $1,000, whereas an 80-inch TV is going to cost you at least $1,500, if not much more. Want more information? Check out our article on the topic at Projectors versus TVs: Which is best for your home theater? The darker the room, the better the picture quality. When it comes to contrast, a projector needs darkness to make an image that looks bold, not washed out. This is where a projector screen comes in handy, built with materials to help absorb light and improve colors.
There are a lot of factors that come into play when deciding which projector is the best, including indoor versus outdoor, image quality, and many more factors, which is why we made a list of the top home projectors on the market to help you decide. If you're short on room, check our list of the best short-throw projectors, too.
A majority of modern smartphones and tablets can be connected to a projector wirelessly, and many projectors come with their own smart platforms with app access. You can also connect streaming boxes and sticks to a projector if they have the necessary HDMI inputs. It won't be a problem.
Basic projector screens aren't too pricey — especially compared to the price of the projector. But you'll want to get a more expensive screen to make sure your image is color-corrected and have some of the ambient light absorbed. A quality screen can add a few hundred dollars to your home theater project.
Again, walls simply won't have the same results as a projector screen. Additionally, there are many types of "black" walls. A matte black wall would produce far better results than a glossy black wall, which would be horrible for a home projector.
Editors' Recommendations A massive Sonos Black Friday sale just started at Best Buy 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now Best Products Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Web Best Buy is pulling out the big guns this Black Friday to compete with Amazon Black Friday deals, and we're seeing a lot of great deals across the board, whether you want a laptop, a vacuum cleaner, or a fitness tracker. Of course, there are a lot of deals to go through, so we've done our best to collect some of our favorite ones below so that you don't have to. We'll also be updating this page as more and better deals come along, so be sure to check back regularly. Also, be sure to check out the Walmart Black Friday sale, as it's also going all out in the hopes of competing with Amazon.
Top 3 Best Buy Black Friday Deals Nest Hub -- $60, was $100 Audio / Video There's no shortage of QLED TV Black Friday deals this year, but it will be tough to find a better offer than Best Buy's lowered price for the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. Instead of $450, you'll only have to pay nearly half that following a $220 discount, for an eye-catching price of $230 for the shopping holiday. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if you want to take advantage of the huge savings though, because we're pretty sure that this bargain is attracting a lot of shoppers. Proceed with the transaction now so that you don't miss out.
Why you should buy the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV The TCL Q5 4K QLED TV features a 55-inch display with 4K Ultra HD resolution, which guarantees sharp details and lifelike colors when you're watching your favorite shows and movies, and it supports most advanced HDR formats for even better picture quality. Its built-in Google TV platform grants access to all of the most popular streaming services like Netflix and Disney+, while also making the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV compatible with voice commands through smart home devices that are running on Google Assistant or Amazon's Alexa.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
