Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best ultra short throw projectors for 2023 By Derek Malcolm and Sakshi Udavant Close There are many benefits to getting yourself an ultra short throw (UST) projector over a more standard throw projector.
 The former can project a huge image up on your wall or screen from only a handful of inches away, keeping it neat and out of everyone's way, while the latter must be set up at a distance, usually from 10 feet to 20 feet, requiring more thought about mounting, furniture, and other obstacles.
Perfect for those with limited space looking for an ultra-big picture that can hit upwards of 100 to 130 inches, these projectors are often powered by advanced laser lighting technology that often offers beautiful 4K resolution and features such as HDR contrast and even some decent built-in sound so you don't necessarily have to fork over even more cash for a soundbar or sound system.
Short throw and ultra short throw projectors are becoming much more common and reasonably priced, giving buyers a greater amount of choice than ever. Our current pick for the best ultra short throw projector, the Samsung LSP9T Premiere , has a projection distance requirement of just 4.5 inches for a 100-inch image. While UST projectors can be pricey, ranging anywhere from $2,000 to more than $6,000, and often require a special ambient light rejecting (ALR) screen, if a big-picture theater at home is what you're after, a UST projector is the way to go. With that in mind, we've rounded up the best ultra short throw projectors on the market right now, hitting a variety of price points.
More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung LSP9T Premiere Best overall ultra short throw projector 4K picture at 120 inches High-quality 2,200-lumen brightness Great voice assistant support Expensive Samsung’s ultra short throw projector has an excellent collection of specs that guarantee a high-end home theater experience while also saving a bunch of space. That includes a 2,800-lumen bulb that ensures images will be visible even in bright-room conditions, 4K resolution at up to a 130-inch image size, and Samsung’s own Tizen smart TV platform for browsing apps and more.
This ultra short throw project also comes with 30-watt speakers, and while projector speakers aren’t generally that impressive (we highly suggest getting a full sound system ), these plus the built-in subwoofer are better than traditional TV speakers. It’s also a smart projector with support for Alexa, Google Assistant, and Samsung's own Bixby voice assistant, so you don’t have to get up when you can turn the projector on or search for a show with basic voice commands.
Like many short throw projectors, Samsung’s model is also fairly portable if you’d like to move it to different locations and doesn’t require the same sort of calibration each time that other types of projectors may require. It’s a complete package, although the price may deter some buyers.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Hisense PX1-PRO Best for color reproduction Great color accuracy HDMI eARC support Supports casting with Chromecast 130-inch images may be too large for some traditional home setups Hisense’s TriChrome engine is the real highlight of this ultra short throw laser projector, able to reach 107% coverage of the BT.2020 color gamut: that means extra color accuracy, which is always an important consideration for projectors. Combine it with the peak brightness of 2,200 lumens, and you won’t have to worry about losing any image detail if you’re switching from a TV. It also provides a 4K image at up to 130 inches.
We love to see a projector supporting the Dolby Atmos sound format as well. Add in the HDMI eARC support for easy passthrough connections for modern speakers, and this is one of the best projectors for sound quality you can find. Thanks to its Android TV platform, it’s also friendly for Google app users and supports casting video using the Chromecast tools.
If there’s any downside here, it’s that 130 inches is a fairly large space, and you’ll need a lot of room for a screen that large, which may not fit in every home theater space.
More The best projectors for 2023: from 4K to ultra short throw The best OLED TV of 2023 is $700 off: 77-inch LG C3 OLED Save $130 on this top-rated Epson home theater projector with Android TV Image used with permission by copyright holder Vava VA-LT002 Home Theater Projector Best mid-priced ultra short throw projector Capable midrange model 60-watt Harmon Kardon speakers HDR10 support Speakers still can't compete with a full system Vava’s UST projector is more of a midrange model that allows buyers to save some money without skimping on too many important features. Those features include support for up to a 4K image, a lamp that can reach 1,800 lumens of brightness, and capable 60-watt Harmon Kardon speakers. This is another projector that supports the Android TV platform , which should make managing your streaming services even easier.
We also like to see support for both HDR10 and Dolby Audio here, which will work well if you are primarily interested in a movie-watching experience. It’s another model that’s highly portable, too, so you can easily reposition it or take it to different rooms (classroom, meeting rooms, etc.) if necessary.
Image used with permission by copyright holder LG Cinebeam HU715QW Another great ultra short throw all-rounder Dolby Atmos and HDR10 support ThinQ smart platform Brightness modes depending on the room 20-watt speakers do not impress Combine the impressive 2,500 lumens with 4K technology backed by LG’s XPR tech, add in support for HDR10, and this projector can really deliver an image to make your friends jealous. It’s another model that includes Dolby Atmos and HDMI eARC to benefit your careful speaker setup, too.
The platform also uses LG’s ThinQ smart tech, which means you can give voice commands if you like. Screen sharing is supported via AirPlay 2, Miracast, and more. There are also some handy modes here, including different brightness modes for medium light, bright rooms, dark rooms, and others. Unfortunately, the two 20-watt speakers could be more impressive, so this is another example of why you’d really want an external sound system or soundbar to use as well.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Epson EpiqVision LS300 Best affordable ultra short throw projector Affordable model Extra-high 3,600-lumen brightness Lacks some smart and optimization features It’s hard to find a budget ultra short throw projector, but Epson’s model will probably be the best you can find. It costs about the same as a very good HDTV, and you get support for up to 4K images at 120 inches, although only native Full HD support (always look at the native support numbers). The laser can reach 100% of the traditional RGB color base, and HDR optimization is here as well for improving contrast and clarity for many kinds of content.
Android TV and its associated support for Chromecast casting are here as well, making this another good pick for Google users or those streaming content from other devices. The Yamaha 2.1 speakers are also very good, considering the price. And brightness is perhaps the most impressive of all, reaching all the way up to 3,600 lumens if necessary (although staying at that level will burn your bulb out quickly). All in all, this is an ideal pick if you want to replace a TV that’s frequently watched in the daytime.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Wemax Nova 4K Laser Projector Best big-picture projector for a cinema experience Extra-large 150-inch mode 3D content support HDR10 More suited toward pure theater rooms than other entertainment spaces This well-rounded projector does all kinds of things right, starting with 4K support, HDR10, and an extra-large image option that can reach up to 150 inches (although, at that point, your 4K resolution may not be the same). It has a great 2,100-lumen rating that pairs well with ALPD technology that uses light more efficiently to help reduce eye strain at closer distances and save lamp life.
While the main draw here is the support for extra-large images that can easily span a whole wall or home theater room, the broad support of this Wemax model — which also uses Android TV — makes it a good fit for a variety of users. Although if you really want that 150-inch cinematic experience, you may want to break out the measuring tape before you hit the buy button.
Image used with permission by copyright holder BenQ V7050i 4K Laser Projector Great for smart TV features Bright 3,500 ANSI Lumens HDR-Pro contrast and wide color gamut Android TV Native sound isn't great BenQ makes some excellent projectors, and has done for some time, but the BenQ V7050i is the Taiwanese multinational company's first laser projector, and it's safe to say that it's off to a good start.
First off, the "i" in the product number signifies that it's among BenQ's lineup that's made for streaming services, and the projector's built-in Android TV platform is the driving force behind delivering all that content. With a bright 2,500 ANSI lumens, this laser projector will be well suited for any bright rooms, and with 98% DCI-P3 color coverage and BenQ's HDR-Pro technology, it will deliver excellent vivd color with detailed HDR contrast in 4K resolution.
And, of course, it's an ultra short throw projector, meaning those with smaller spaces or who just don't want to hang a projector from their ceiling and like to keep it all neat and tidy near the screen, will prefer this setup instead. The V7050i will throw an image up to 100 inches from just 8.7 inches from the screen and can produce a maximum image size of 120 inches.
Sound isn't awesome on the V7050i, with its dual 5-watt speakers, but who cares. If you're spending this kind of money, spring for a solid soundbar of even a decent home theater surround sound system that you can connect through the projector's HDMI ARC output. Lastly, if you like what you see with this model, you might want to hold off and wait for BenQ's upcoming new V5000i HDR RGB laser projector that we're eagerly waiting to get our hands on.
More Frequently Asked Questions Throw distance is the minimum/maximum distance the projector can be from a surface (like a screen or a wall) to cast a desirable image. Ultra short throw projectors tend to have a range of around 7 to 8 inches. From there, throw distance jumps up to at least several feet.
Brightness is critical for projectors, determining how clear the image will be and how dark the room needs to be to properly see it. Brightness is measured in lumens, though ANSI lumens are a common measure in DLP (digital light processing) projectors.
There isn’t a hard and fast way to measure lumens, so the actual lumen rating can vary from model to model. Generally, the most common brightness for ultra short throw projectors is between 2,000 and 2,500 lumens.
Portable projectors are usually significantly dimmer, but that’s largely because of the smaller lighting fixture in the compact form factor.
Resolution naturally determines the clarity of the image. This is measured the same way it is on televisions and monitors. It’s important to read the fine print when shopping for projectors, however. Many will boast 4K or 1080p resolutions but are referring to the content the projector supports — different than the projector’s native resolution. Many cheaper projectors will promote HD resolutions but only have a native resolution of 840 × 480 (DVD quality).
Any time you’re shopping, check the native resolution to get a clear idea of what the image will look like.
Projectors these days usually come with a healthy number of ports to connect Blu-ray players , gaming consoles, and streaming devices. These are usually critical, even if the projector has a built-in smart TV interface. These interfaces are usually clunky and outdated, so you’ll always have a better experience connecting an external media device.
You will also want to make sure the projector has audio-out jacks or HDMI eARC.
 Projector speakers are usually weak, if they have speakers at all. To get the best experience, you’ll want to connect a soundbar or home theater system.
If you want to go wireless, some projectors do support AirPlay or Chromecast, though this is far from a universal feature. But you can make just about any projector cast video by connecting an Apple TV, Chromecast, or another streaming stick.
That all depends on what your needs are, but compared to regular throw projectors, UST projectors are easier to set up as they do not require as much room to throw an image and can be more conveniently placed much closer to the screen, often on your existing media console. Because of this closer setup, there's no worry about people walking in front of the projection beam casting a shadow and ruining your viewing, and there's no need for often messy or intrusive ceiling mounting. Picture-wise, however, the fact that it's a UST projector doesn't determine its picture quality — normal throw and UST projectors can have similar resolution and picture quality specs.
No, you don't need a screen with a UST projector, or with any projector for that matter, and you can simply project an image on to a clean and smooth white wall, if you like. However, adding a proper screen will improve the picture quality immensely. But not all screens are created equal and some might be better for the projector you buy and the room situation you're in as some screens do better at managing the light in the room, especially if your projector isn't set up in a dedicated home theater room, like in a basement or where the light can be completely controlled. Some UST projectors actually will come with a perfectly paired screen, such as an "ambient light reflecting" (ALR) screen that does a much better job of filtering and reflecting light for brighter, clearer, more vivid picture quality.
Yes, of course! Many projectors, not just UST projectors, come with HDMI inputs that can be used to connect your streaming devices such as an Apple TV, Roku, or Amazon Fire Stick, just as you would with a TV. Some are even capable of 4K resolution and HDR features like Dolby Vision and DTS:X, as well as sound support for formats such as Dolby Atmos. A lot of projectors are also now coming with built-in smart TV operating systems such as Android TV , webOS, and Tizen, that all support every streaming service you can think of.
Editors' Recommendations Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Save $800 on this 85-inch Sony TV in Best Buy’s early Black Friday sale This 65-inch Sony OLED TV is $600 off in Best Buy’s early Black Friday sale Don’t miss this deal: Best Buy has a 75-inch 4K TV for $520 Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best Products Audio / Video When it comes to Amazon Fire TV and picking out which is the one you should get, it really comes down to one question. It’s not exactly a simple one, though.
What, exactly, do you need? Audio / Video We're coming up on the holiday shopping season, which means some really fantastic deals on big-screen TVs, making them as affordable as ever. Particularly when you consider that even the best TVs are regular candidates for a discount. 70-inch TVs make a good size for watching sports, and since most TVs nowadays are smart TVs, they’re also a good option if you’re interested in the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max, and more. There are a lot of intriguing 70-inch TV deals taking place right now, and we’ve rounded up the best available. These TVs include brands like LG and Samsung, and they’re ready to take center stage in your home theater.
Insignia 70-inch F30 Series LED 4K TV — $450, was $600 Whether upgrading your home theater or building one from scratch, the Insignia F30 4K TV has everything on the stat sheet. It presents all of your favorite content in breathtaking 4K resolution, and HDR technology provides a wide range of color details and sharper contrast, making movies more immersive and things like sports more impactful. Versatile connectivity ports make it easy to connect home theater peripherals. This TV also offers smart features like Alexa voice control, DTS Studio Sound, and Apple AirPlay. The Insignia 70-inch F30 4K TV is also a Fire TV, which gets you instant access to over 500,000 streaming movies and TV episodes, and access to thousands of channels and apps, including Netflix, Apple TV+, Disney+, Hulu, Prime Video, and more.
Audio / Video Upgrade your home theater setup by buying from QLED TV deals, which will give you incredible brightness and accurate colors with the help of a layer of quantum dots. If you're interested in buying a QLED TV, the good news is that there are discounts that you can shop right now, but only if you hurry. We've listed our top picks here to help you make a decision, but because of the popularity of QLED TVs, we don't think stocks will last long. If you see an offer from these TV deals that you like, you better push through with the purchase immediately.
TCL 50-inch Q5 4K QLED TV -- $250, was $400 You don't need to spend several hundreds of dollars to get a QLED TV in your living room because there are affordable options like the 50-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. With 4K Ultra HD resolution and support for all the most advanced HDR formats, you'll enjoy sharp details and lifelike colors, and it runs on Google TV to access all of the popular streaming services. The platform also offers Chromecast so you can stream from your mobile devices onto the 50-inch screen, and it enables compatibility with Google Assistant and Amazon's Alexa.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
