Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News CES 2023: Hisense’s smallest laser projector is portable and has a huge 150-inch image size By Simon Cohen Close Hisense has been working on laser projectors (or laser TVs as they’re sometimes called) for several years, but CES 2023 is the first time the company has shown a portable version of the high-brightness projector tech. It debuted the Hisense Smart Mini Projector at the show, alongside four other laser TV models. No prices or release dates were immediately available. The company also launched its 2023 TV lineup and debuted a new, ultrabright flagship TV called the UX.
L9H TriChroma Laser TV L5H 4K Smart Laser TV PL1 Laser Cinema PX2-Pro TriChroma Laser Cinema Hisense Smart Mini Projector For 2023, Hisense has decided to split its laser TV products into two categories: Laser TV and Laser Cinema. The difference is that the Laser TV models are ultra-short throw (UST) projectors that come with their own ambient-light rejecting (ALR) screens and are designed to project images at non-adjustable sizes, just like a regular TV. Laser Cinema models, on the other hand, are (with the exception of the Mini) also UST, but they have an adjustable image size and they don’t come with a screen.
Both Laser TV and Laser Cinema categories are powered by a Google TV smart TV interface, except the Hisense Smart Mini Projector, which uses Hisense’s own VIDAA Smart TV OS.
The best TVs of CES 2023 Leica launches the Hisense-powered $8,300 Cine 1, its first 4K Laser TV, at CES 2023 Hisense debuts the UX, its brightest mini-LED TV at CES 2023 L9H TriChroma Laser TV Hisense Hisense’s laser flagship is the L9 Series, which features a triple-laser light engine, TriChroma, and can support HDR 10, and Dolby Vision , at 107% of the BT.2020 color space, which basically means that there isn’t a single color from a streaming movie or UHD Blu-ray that this projector can’t display. It’s also impressively bright at a claimed 3,000 ANSI lumens.
In addition to its Google TV interface, it also has a NextGen TV (ATSC 3.0) tuner built-in for up to 4K free OTA broadcasts. Wi-fi 6e will help with wireless speed and stability when using a compatible router, and built-in Airplay 2 lets you cast audio and video from any compatible Apple device or computer. Hisense says the L9H has ultra-high-speed HDMI ports, but we don’t yet know how many, or which HDMI 2.1 features it supports, like 120Hz gaming or variable refresh rate (VRR).
It comes with a new, high-gain ALR screen with easy image calibration and a newly designed frame for an easier installation process. The L9H comes in both 100- and 120-inch screen sizes.
L5H 4K Smart Laser TV Hisense The L9H’s triple-color laser system is impressive, but also pricey. To make things more affordable yet still entertaining, the L5 Series uses a single X-Fusion blue laser light source, yet still provides support for Dolby Vision which makes it an attractive alternative for folks looking for that ultra-big-screen experience.
Its high-gain ALR screen should provide enough bounce to work even in broad daylight, according to Hisense. Like the L9H, it has some great features like FilmMaker mode, Google TV , NextGen TV, Wi-Fi 6e, and Airplay 2.
 Its HDMI ports include HDMI ARC/eARC capability.
Hisense says the L5H has a set of 40W speakers, which can do virtual Dolby Atmos , and you get a choice of 100- or 120-inch screen sizes.
PL1 Laser Cinema Hisense As Hisense’s entry into ultra-short throw projection, the new PL1 Laser Cinema has an auto-focus, adjustable lens that lets you project images from 80 to 120 inches.
It uses a single X-Fusion laser light source, which can produce up to 2,100 lumens, through the use of a blue laser and phosphor color filter lasers. Hisense hasn’t provided any other details, but it’s likely that the PL1 will have a range of HDMI and wireless connectivity options, and a built-in sound system.
PX2-Pro TriChroma Laser Cinema With a similar TriChroma Laser system as the L9H, the PX2-Pro can reach up to 2,400 ANSI lumens peak brightness and supports both Dolby Vision and HDR10.
It has a powered digital lens focus system, which lets you dial in any size of image you need from 90 to 130 diagonal inches. As with the L9H, you get Google TV , ultra-high speed HDMI ports, and Airplay 2.
Hisense Smart Mini Projector Hisense Despite being Hisense’s smallest laser projector, the Smart Mini Projector can project the largest image range and size in this category: from 65 to 150 inches. That’s unusual even for 8K laser systems.
Hisense claims it gets 1,600 ANSI lumens of brightness using the same TriChroma triple laser light engine as the L9H and PX2-Pro. Like those projectors, it supports 107% of the BT.2020 color space. It also has 4K resolution with Dolby Vision and HDR10. Its two 20W JBL speakers are Dolby Atmos and DTS audio compatible. It has Amazon Alexa built-in and supports AirPlay 2.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Is 8K TV dying? It’s not looking good at CES 2023 TCL QM8 mini-LED TV at CES 2023: a 98-inch giant with a built-in subwoofer Samsung debuts Premiere 8K UST projector at CES 2023 with images up to 150 inches Samsung shows off the first two 77-inch QD-OLED 4K TVs at CES 2023 CES 2023 Hisense Tech News Audio / Video On display at CES 2023, Samsung's 2023 TV lineup is getting a wide variety of upgrades, including thinner designs, better sound systems, 4K cloud-based gaming, and some interesting health applications that the company is borrowing from its mobile division. Here's everything you need to know.
MicroLED gets smaller, more affordable Samsung was an early promoter of microLED display tech, which uses tiny LED lights as individual pixels instead of using them as the backlight on an LCD-based TV (LED TV, mini-LED TV). Unfortunately, microLED TVs have tended to be huge (starting at 110 inches), expensive, and somewhat limited in resolution at smaller sizes.
The company's new Micro LED CX, at 76 inches, is its smallest yet, and Samsung promises it will also be the most affordable microLED TV ever released.
Audio / Video Samsung surprised us at CES 2022 when it debuted the Freestyle, a compact, portable projector that looks like a spotlight. At CES 2023, the Freestyle is back and Samsung has given it a new set of capabilities, including the ability to pair two Freestyles to create an ultrawide display.
The 2023 Freestyle is also geared toward new use cases, including "real-world metaverse" applications, though Samsung hasn't said exactly what that means, or provided any examples. We're also a bit hazy on exactly how the dual-screen functionality works, save for the company's description of its Edge Blending technology, which enables two Freestyles to synchronize their projections, while automatically performing keystone correction and adjusting the picture.
Audio / Video While almost all of the buzz in TV land in 2022 was related to the launch of the first-ever QD-OLED TVs from Sony and Samsung, it looks like 2023 will be the year that some folks begin seriously considering a TV based on microLED tech. At least, that's Samsung's clear hope now that the company has debuted the world's first 76-inch model, the Micro LED CX. The company announced the new model at CES 2023 and said it will be its smallest and most affordable microLED TV to date.
The 76-inch model isn't the only microLED in Samsung's lineup. The company says it will offer these TVs in 50-, 63-, 89-, 101-, 114- and 140-inch versions in 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
