Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to choose the right home theater projector for you By Tyler Lacoma and Sakshi Udavant Close To really put the “theater” in your home theater, there’s nothing quite like a projector capable of beaming a big, bright movie or big sporting event on your wall, effectively turning your living room or backyard into your own private AMC.
 A projector can offer an excellent cinematic experience … if you pick the right one. But when you consider all the tech and terms involved in modern projectors — from short-throw projectors to lasers to DLP to LcOS — choosing the right one can be tricky. It’s also important to choose a projector that’s going to feel at home in your theater space and not too painful to install and adjust.
Start with our guides What’s your budget? Standard-throw to ultra-short-throw projectors Consider lamp versus laser Find the right brightness Decide on a resolution Learn about imaging chips Additional video and sound features Check for connection support A sound plan Along with wrapping your head around all the techy terms, also make sure you take your viewing needs into consideration. Users who primarily depend on their projector for entertainment will require more features and have a bigger budget to spare, while occasional users might wanna stick to basic features and save some cash.
If you’re making the leap from a TV to a projector for the first time, some projector specs and requirements may feel overwhelming. Our guide will help you focus on what matters — like choosing what popcorn to buy for your movie night. Let’s jump in! Image used with permission by copyright holder Start with our guides Don’t stop at this guide — we have other resources that will be a huge help, too. Our list of the best home theater projectors and best short-throw projectors are a great place to start looking for potential models when you are ready, and they include some FAQs to explain a few important things in more depth.
HDMI ARC or digital optical: what’s the difference, and which is best for you? The best soundbars of 2023: a sound upgrade for your TV This popular Sony 4K home theater receiver is $100 off right now Our guide on how to set up a home projector is also an invaluable resource that will help you learn about throw distance, important projector placement decisions, and much more when you are ready. We also have some great guides on choosing the right projector screens for indoors and outdoors.
What’s your budget? Perhaps the most important question you need to ask yourself is, “How much do I want to spend?” It’s always a good idea to start with budget parameters, especially since a home projector is a significant investment, often costing as much (or sometimes more) than a TV.
 Have a look online, and you’ll see everything from a budget pick for around $600 to a model packed with features for over $3,000. For a proper home theater experience, we recommend sticking to at least the $1,500 to $2,000 range, but there’s wiggle room.
Don’t forget about extra expenses like a projector screen, soundbars or sound systems, and a projector mount if you need one. Be mindful of these extra costs, though. Even if you buy a cheap projector, spending on related accessories can quickly add up and end up costing more than the projector itself! Here, you’ll have to decide how to divide your budget between the projector and other components you may want. If you’re really tight on budget, consider skipping the accessories or buying budget ones.
LG Standard-throw to ultra-short-throw projectors It’s time to make choices to narrow down what kind of projector you want. A standard-throw projector, like the $1,800 Optoma UHD55 , usually requires around 8 to 10 feet of space from the wall to properly cast a 100-inch image. For smaller theater spaces, that could put the projector right in the middle of your seating, which is why standard-throw projectors often offer ceiling-mount options to ensure the projector is out of the way.
A “short-throw” projector will cut down this distance by a few feet, making it easier to find a non-ceiling solution for your projector placement, which will make a huge difference.
For a real game-changer, consider an ultra-short throw (UST) projector.
 These projectors, such as the $3,500 Samsung LSP9T Premiere , operate from only a few inches away from a screen or wall, so they’re excellent for saving on space and time with a home theater … but they also tend to cost more.
Consider lamp versus laser The light in a projector can come from two different possible sources — a lamp or a laser. A lightbulb-based lamp typically has a “half-life” of several thousand hours, after which the image quality starts to decline and you’ll want to replace it with a new bulb. A laser projector (and its close cousin, the LED projector) costs more, runs cooler than lamps, and can last up to 30,000 hours, so you won’t need to replace anything over time.
This is generally an easy choice. If you are using your projector in a dedicated theater room where you’ll be watching movies or shows a couple of times a week, a lamp model should suffice and save you some money. If your projector is going to be the home’s primary way to watch anything, it’s better to save up for a laser model for their longevity and improved color and contrast.
LG Find the right brightness Another projector spec is “lumens,” a measurement of how much light a projector puts out. You may also see this listed as “ANSI lumens,” which is just a reference to the governing standards organization, the American National Standards Institute.
Brightness isn’t a huge concern unless you’ll be using the projector during the day in a room that gets lots of ambient light or using it with the lights on (like in a living room). Then you’ll want to make sure you’ve got 2,500 lumens or more. Many higher-end projectors go beyond 3,000 lumens, so this may not be a concern. But some projectors are specifically made with dim theater rooms in mind and may not have the lumens to handle a bright room well — again, this is where the room and placement becomes key. As a frame of reference, and as just a neat piece of trivia, a 100-watt lightbulb is about 1,600 lumens, while a candle is a measly 14 lumens.
Decide on a resolution Support for 4K has become so common in projectors these days, so you should have no trouble finding models at this resolution. 4K resolution is one of the best ways to take advantage of the larger screens that projectors support, so it’s a great spec to look for. On the other hand, budget projectors are much more likely to cap at 720p or Full HD 1080p, which can cut the cost of the projector significantly. Our advice would be to buy the highest resolution that your budget allows — you don’t want to be upgrading to a 4K down the line.
Learn about imaging chips If you look at projector specs, you’ll start to see info about imaging chips, which is how the projector controls its light. There are three major chip options today — DLP (Digital Light Processing), LCD (Liquid Crystal Display), and LCoS (Liquid Crystal on Silicon).
We’re going to make this step easy for you without getting bogged down in imaging technologies. If you want a great contrast ratio on a projector image that can handle a cinematic experience, look for LCoS. If you want to save as much money as possible, look for LCD. If you are interested in the sharpest picture, look for DLP. But ultimately, don’t make the chip the biggest factor in deciding on the best home projector for you.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Additional video and sound features A home projector should support the latest viewing technologies for the best image and audio possible and can maximize the experience by allowing you to view movies and TV shows as close to the way the creators intended as possible.
Picture features such as HDR (High Dynamic Range) will make for a brighter picture with much more dynamic contrasts. There are a number of HDR formats, but they all optimize picture quality to be the best it can and function especially well with projectors that have high brightness capabilities.
When it comes to sound, Dolby Atmos is an immersive audio experience that is second to none. While some projectors have Atmos speakers built-in, you can look for projectors that have HDMI eARC ports that allow them to pass high-quality audio, including Atmos, to your surround sound system, should that be a priority.
Keep in mind, though, that your hardware, such as your TV and sound system, as well as the content you’re watching, will also need to support these and other technologies to gain these benefits. You can usually find icons for these capabilities on physical media like discs or streaming sites like Netflix and Amazon Prime Video to let you know it is supported. If you are using something like Google Chromecast or built-in smart platforms in a projector, then you should be able to easily spot format support — most popular shows and movies will have it. If you’re viewing files from a USB stick, you may not be able to tell if additional standards are present.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Check for connection support How do you plan to watch content on your projector? As we mentioned, many projectors have built-in smart platforms like TVs do, so all you need is a dependable Wi-Fi or Ethernet connection. But you may be planning on a lot more than streaming. If you have Blu-Ray discs, for example, you’ll need a nearby Blu-Ray player and a free HDMI port on your projector (remember that above note about eARC and Dolby Atmos sound, too). If you have additional devices, like an Apple TV and PlayStation 5, that you want to connect, they will need HDMI ports, too — you can see how you might quickly run out of ports for all your connections. Check that your projector has enough connection options to support the setup you have in mind.
If you don’t want to use a smart platform on a projector, you still have options. Some projectors support wireless casting directly from your smartphone. For others, you may have to connect your smartphone with a cable, so the projector will need a USB port that matches your phone’s cable … or you could use a USB-to-HDMI adapter like this Anker model.
 A USB stick will require a USB port on the projector to function.
A sound plan Some home projectors come with built-in speakers, but if you want a truly cinematic experience, you’ll want something else. You may want to consider a soundbar or surround sound system for your projector and check that the projector has the necessary ports to support it. You might also be able to connect your projector to your existing home audio setup, like an A/V receiver. Again, you will need to make sure that your projector has enough HDMI ports to add an audio connection. That can help you save a port if you are routing content from one of the consoles or set-top boxes mentioned above, since you would only need a single HDMI connection from your source to the speakers and then to your projector.
Editors' Recommendations The best projectors for 2023: from 4K to ultra short throw Save $130 on this top-rated Epson home theater projector with Android TV You can get a 65-inch QLED 4K TV for $400 right now (seriously) Save $300 on this Epson 4K home cinema projector today How to set up the TCL Q6 Google TV Entertainment How-To Guides Audio / Video If you didn't think QLED TV deals can go below $300, you'll be pleasantly surprised to find out that the 50-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV is currently available for a very cheap $270 from Best Buy. The $130 discount on its sticker price of $400 may not last long though, as we think there will be a lot of interest in this offer. If you're already looking forward to watching on this TV from the comfort of your living room, then you shouldn't hesitate to complete the purchase.
Why you should buy the 50-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV TCL, one of the best TV brands that's known for the value of its products, is one of the mainstays in our list of the best QLED TVs. That should give you an idea of what to expect from the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV -- with 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 50-inch screen for sharp details, support for the most advanced HDR formats to enable accurate colors, and DTS Virtual: X for immersive 3D sound, it offers much more than other TVs with similar prices. With Google TV, you'll be able to access all of the popular streaming services, and because the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV works with Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant, you'll be able to use voice commands to control it.
Audio / Video It's probably likely that your awesome hi-fi speakers are heard far more than they are seen, and that's just fine. But what isn't fine is that you may not have noticed all the dust, pet hair, and grime building up on your speakers cabinets, grilles, cones, tweeters, woofers, and connections that can potentially affect their sound.
Whether it's a set of tower speakers, bookshelves (like in the images below), or even certain Bluetooth speakers, giving your speakers a cleaning every once in a while is a great way to ensure they look and sound great for years to come. And it's relatively easy with a few common tools you may already have on hand. Here's how to clean your speakers.
Audio / Video Netflix is one of the oldest streaming platforms out there, and it's still one of the best apps for indulging in new movies and TV shows, as well as classic content. It's also the kind of streamer that should be shared with others (not that kind of sharing), but it's often kind of difficult to get everyone under the same roof. Not to worry though, for there are a couple of ways you can host a Netflix watch party from the comfort of your home, while your pals and family members tune in from their respective domiciles, too. Here's how.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
