Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Guides How to set up a home theater projector By Tyler Lacoma Close A home projector is an excellent way to get a movie theater vibe in your home and an image much larger than what your HDTV can attain.
Today’s projectors can achieve some amazing resolution, including 4K, and are a great solution for your home theater needs.
Find your optimal throw distance Chart out space in your room Set up your screen Find the right height and set up the stand or mount Align your image with lens shifts Adjust your zoom and focus Set up your audio Manage all your cables There’s just one trick: Projectors are a bit more complicated to set up than TVs, and may require a few extra steps. If you aren’t familiar with the process, our guide will walk you through what to tackle first, and what to know about making those key adjustments. Let's get started.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Home projector Projector stand or mount Necessary cables, including HDMI Projector screen A level, power drill, and screwdriver Find your optimal throw distance When it comes to home theater projectors, your owner's manual is your best friend. In it you will find a ton of useful information about setup — most importantly, the throw distance for your projector. Throw distance is how far the projector should be from the screen for an optimal image. The farther away, the larger the image, but at a point, the image will start to gray out and pixelate.
Projectors generally outline the maximum image size that retains the maximum resolution, but you can go smaller than that, too. Projector images can be anywhere from a few hundred inches to the size of a traditional TV: Most are designed for a 1.13:1 throw ratio (that means for every 1.13-feet of distance from the screen, you get 1-foot of image width), but there’s some leeway. You can look up your model and choose an image size with this calculator to explore your options.
Using your manual as a guide, decide on how large you want your image to be, and calculate your throw distance. Many traditional projectors are designed around a throw distance of approximately 8 to 10 feet. Short throw projectors lessen that distance by a few feet, and ultra-short throw projectors are designed to be used within only a few inches.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Chart out space in your room Now that you know your throw distance, it’s time to decide where to place your projector. Is your projector designed to be mounted to a base (where the lens is generally angled upward) or mounted to a ceiling (where the lens is angled downward)? Many can handle both with the correct placement.
Placing the projector on base on the floor makes it easy to use, and allows for much faster adjustments, connecting different input cables on the fly, and more. This configuration might be better for those who aren't using their projector as a permanent setup — perhaps bringing it out for movies or a big game. It also takes up room right in the center of your home theater setup and is more prone to being bumped into in this position.
A ceiling mount is a safer, more permanent option and keeps clear of the furniture. But it’s going to take some crawlspace or ceiling work and it’s designed to be permanent, so you can’t have any plans to move the projector around afterward.
Again, an ultra-short-throw projector is an alternative that can often fit in the same space as a TV stand or table, and avoids many of the pitfalls of other mounting options. But they can be expensive and generally can’t produce images as large as more traditional projectors, so you are giving up a couple of benefits.
Set up your screen You know where and how you are going to mount your projector, and you’ve arranged your seating/tables so they won’t be in the way. Now it’s time to set up your screen. A screen isn’t absolutely required for your home projection, but we highly suggest it: It’s the only way to really get the resolution and color that projectors are capable of, and many home projectors are bundled with them.
Most screens are designed to be screwed to studs or drywall anchors in your wall or hung from installed hooks , and can usually be retracted when not in use (which means they can go over some windows). It’s important that you have enough height for the screen to fully match the projector image size you have chosen.
Make sure you use your level for this step and mark your wall for screw placements first, using the level to make sure the screen is perfectly horizontal.
Using a screen that comes on its own stand is a possibility , especially in a temporary setup, but it will take up extra room and can get jostled or moved out of place.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Find the right height and set up the stand or mount Your projector will also have a recommended height (either from the floor or from the ceiling) that is should sit ar to attain the best image size. Your own manual can once again come in handy at this point, and now that the screen is set up, you can use it as a focal point if you want to turn on your projector and start getting things lined up. Don’t worry about getting things exactly right — that comes later. For now, finish the primary mounting.
Mounting from the ceiling is self-explanatory and ceiling mounts come with clear directions, although you will need to do some wiring work, and for that you might want to hire a professional. Mounting on the floor means making a few choices. There are many tripod mounts for projectors, but you might want something a little sturdy in your living room or movie zone: There are projector stands designed to be placed on existing tables , but you need to be cautious with this: An accidental bump or two can throw your projector out of whack and require tedious adjustments.
If you have no choice, you can find a table or shelf that’s near the suggested height, and make angle adjustments until your image is centered. Adjust the projector's angle carefully to avoid alignment issues — you want to avoid tilting it as much as possible for the best results.
Align your image with lens shifts When you are ready, connect the projector and bring up its menu. The projector should have settings for specifying where you have placed it so it can start with the right image orientation. Settings may also have test patterns to use during setup, which are very handy. Otherwise, you may need to connect an input device like a streaming device or computer and bring up a high-res image during your adjustments.
On the projector, you should find options for a Lens Shift , or manually adjusting the projector lens both horizontally and vertically until it perfectly centers on your screen. Do this now.
Note: Do not mistake Keystone Correction with Lens Shift.
Keystone Correction is a mode that adjusts the image itself to correct mistakes made with height and angle. It can interfere with image quality, and in a proper home setup it should not be necessary unless you are desperate for a quick fix.
Malikov Aleksandr/Shutterstock Adjust your zoom and focus Now that the projector is throwing the image in the exact right place, it’s time to make sure it’s in focus. Here, home projectors use zoom and focus controls that you will need to master. Find your zoom and focus controls (they are usually near the lens), and make adjustments until the image is crystal clear. Some projectors also allow you to set a ratio, in which case you should set it for the cinematic 16:9 ratio. There may be other modes, but you can experiment with these later as they won’t really impact your focus.
Once things are the right size and the resolution looks perfect, you may want to go through settings and adjust the brightness, contrast, sharpness, and so on. This isn’t completely necessary, but it’s a good time to nail these down and we have a guide that can help you do it.
Set up your audio Projector audio, if included is … not great, especially if you’re trying to imitate a theater experience. This is why we advise pairing your home projector with a soundbar or a surround sound system connected to your input devices. If you have or want this additional speaker setup, now is the time to do it! We have a calibration guide to help out if you really want your audio to be on point.
Samsung Manage all your cables With the projector set up, you probably have some cable work to do. Most home projectors Best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime, HBO, and more use HDMI , and can typically handle USB, too. You will need to decide where to run cables to keep them hidden, and make sure you purchase cables long enough to reach your devices. In a table-based setup, you may be able to put set-top boxes or other devices under the table, right next to the projector. For a ceiling mount, you’ll need to run cables through the ceiling and walls, or use a mount that has space for additional devices. Ultra short throw projectors need relatively little cable management, but you may want to make sure the cables are as low-profile as possible.
Now that your projector is all set up, all you need now is to find something good to watch, and we've got you covered for that, too.
Editors' Recommendations The best projectors for 2023: from 4K to ultra short throw Save $300 on this Epson 4K home cinema projector today How to create spooky Halloween effects with smart home lighting and sound How to replace lost or broken AirPods, AirPods Pro, or cases This Epson 4K projector with Android TV is $300 off right now Entertainment How-To Guides Audio / Video Epson has a new 4K ultra short throw (UST) laser projector to add to its arsenal. The EpiqVision Ultra LS650 Smart Streaming Laser Projector boasts a three-chip imaging system with a claimed 3,600 lumens of brightness, for images that can scale as large as 120 diagonal inches. The LS650 will come in white or black, however Epson won't be sharing pricing or availability until late October. Given where the new model sits in Epson's lineup, it should be more affordable than its EpiqVision Ultra LS800 flasghip.
Ultra short throw laser projectors -- and their very similar cousins, the laser TV -- are a great way to project big, vivid images onto just about any flat surface without needing to place a noisy projector in the middle of your living room. The EpiqVision Ultra LS650 should be an ideal way to do just that.
Audio / Video Dolby Labs has a new home theater technology called Dolby Atmos FlexConnect. The company says it will let people with a compatible TV place wireless speakers anywhere that's convenient, and the TV's built-in microphones will automatically calibrate them to work with the TV's speakers while ensuring the whole setup produces optimal sound. The technology will make its debut in the 2024 TCL X955 QD mini-LED 4K TV, but Dolby anticipates that other companies will also announce support for Dolby Atmos FlexConnect.
Because Dolby Atmos FlexConnect works wirelessly and uses a compatible TV's built-in hardware and software, you'll be able to set up a Dolby Atmos audio system that doesn't require a soundbar or AV receiver as its central unit and doesn't need an HDMI cable to send an audio signal to an external device.
Audio / Video Modern tech has brought many things into the home that used to be way too expensive to even consider. One of those things is projectors, which you used to only be able to access in places like movie theaters. But nowadays projectors are easily utilized in home theater setups, with even some of the best projectors on the market being more affordable than most people realize. This is especially true when you factor in some of the projector deals taking place right now. Whether you’re on a budget or looking to build one of the more impressive home theaters on the block, there’s plenty of projector deals to choose from.
RCA 480P LCD projector — $59, was $79 The RCA 480p LCD projector is proof that pretty much anyone can bring the movie theater experience into their home. This is one of the most affordable projectors you’ll find, and while it doesn’t boast HD resolution, it can still produce a very watchable image. It’s great for improvised movie nights or for providing some background entertainment at parties and other gatherings. It projects onto any flat surface and delivers a screen size that ranges from 30 inches all the way up to 130 inches for an immersive viewing experience.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
