Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Xgimi Horizon Ultra projector review: dazzling Dolby Vision for under $2,000 By Derek Malcolm Close $1,699.00 Dolby Vision HDR support Smart auto picture adjustments Great dark-room brightness Excellent color accuracy Compact, premium design OK in brighter rooms Setup's a pain for non-Android users Sound could be better When you slide the Xgimi Horizon Ultra from its pristine, styrofoam-lined Apple-esque packaging, there’s a palpable “ooh” moment. The $1,700 4K smart projector sure is pretty, and it even feels premium in your hands with its smooth faux leather covering and soft aluminum accents. “Pretty,” “smooth,” and “soft” are not words I’ve used to describe a projector before , making me instantly wonder how this objet d’art could have a price tag of less than two grand, and be stacked with features that some higher-end projectors don’t even have, most notably a little thing called Dolby Vision.
Xgimi Horizon Ultra: A projector with smarts Xgimi Horizon Ultra: brightness, color, and HDR Xgimi Horizon Ultra: sound performance Bottom line A first for a 4K long-throw projector, Dolby Vision — combined with the use of laser and LED lighting in what Xgimi calls “Dual Light” technology — makes for an impossibly bright and color-accurate projector for the price, which gives the Horizon Ultra a significant leg-up on the competition. It’s super compact for not being a “portable” projector and it runs Android TV 11, which makes for fast and easy setup and operation.
LG prices its QNED mini-LED TVs starting at $2,000 Roku reveals 2-in-1 Streambar, new Roku Ultra with Dolby Atmos/Vision support Xgimi seems to have pulled off the impossible here, so let’s check it out.
Xgimi Horizon Ultra: A projector with smarts Like other Xgimi projectors, such as the cute and portable MoGo 2 Pro , the Horizon Ultra is a smart projector that is easy to set up and use. Its Android TV 11 OS makes for a simple setup, especially if you’re an Android user as you can just have it port all of your apps, user names, passwords, and more, over to the projector in a couple of taps on your phone. Sadly, though, everyone else has to go through the long dance of searching and pecking out login details for your streaming apps using the included remote and those horrible on-screen keyboards, something I wish someone would fix. However, if you’re not into Android TV and prefer to just connect your own streaming device and bypass all that nonsense, there are two HDMI ports.
Positioning and setting the image size is also pretty straightforward. The Horizon Ultra is capable of throwing an image from 40 to 200 inches, the specs say, and it has a throw ratio of 1.2 to 1.5:1. I was able to get a 100-inch image size from roughly 100 inches (8.3 feet) away. But I also tried moving the projector a little further away to give me a slightly larger image, that way I could use the projector’s optical zoom-in feature to more easily fine-tune with the remote. This worked well.
As mentioned above, the Horizon Ultra also has a ton of smart features that punch above its weight. Its auto-keystone correction is among the best I’ve ever used. On startup and/or whenever the projector is moved, it automatically adjusts and straightens the image accounting for any vertical or horizontal angles you might have, and it can do this at some pretty extreme angles. Autofocus keeps the image sharp and crisp, auto-screen alignment adjusts the image to the edge of the screen, and there’s also an image displacement adjustment if you need to nudge the image up, down, left, or right. All of these features can be fully automatic or manual, so you can pretty easily adjust the Horizon Ultra’s image to suit your ideal screen and image size.
Additionally, the projector includes obstacle avoidance tech that detects things like art on your walls and will adjust the image size to avoid them. I found it to work only some of the time with smaller objects like light switches, and as handy as it is, I ended up disabling it. The other feature I disabled was intelligent eye protection, which is a great idea for those with little kids and dogs as it detects movement in front of the projector and dims the bulb to keep little eyes safe. But it can get annoying as it triggers anytime anyone or anything passes in front.
Connectivity-wise, the Horizon Ultra has a wide range of options, including the aforementioned HDMI inputs (with one eARC), two USB ports, Chromecast, Bluetooth 5.2, and a LAN connection should you prefer that over its built-in Wi-Fi 6. For audio out, there’s a 1.5-mm port for headphones or a set of speakers, should you want to connect them, or there’s an optical output, too. Oh, this might be a good time to mention that Horizon Ultra’s two 12-watt built-in Harman Kardon speakers that support DTS-Virtual: X (more on this later).
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Xgimi Horizon Ultra: b rightness, color, and HDR In a completely dark room, the Horizon Ultra’s brightness and contrast performance are excellent, and pretty good in the daytime, too. For such a compact and reasonably priced projector, I was blown away, regardless of whether I was watching Dolby Vision content (which, of course, was better) or other HDR content (it also supports HDR10 and HLG). To be clear, we’re not talking rich, dense black levels akin to an OLED TV.
 So if that’s your expectation then you’d best steer clear of projectors altogether, or be prepared to mortgage your house. But for sub-$2,000, Xgimi has got something special on its hands here.
Driven by 2,300 ISO lumens of brightness (roughly 2,875 ANSI lumens, if you’re keeping track), I found the Horizon Ultra to be plenty bright and vivid, even when compared to higher-priced and brighter long-throw projectors, such as the $3,000, 3,200-lumen BenQ HT4550i I previously reviewed.
 And like the HT4550i, the brightness and contrast settings are tweakable for days, allowing you to find your preferred balance. All this can be attributed to Xgimi’s strides in improving image processing and, specifically, its “Dual Light” system, which combines LED and laser projection technology for what Xgimi says offers the best of both worlds for better color accuracy and brightness. And from my testing, considering the lower 2,300 lumens rating, they’re doing something right here.
Not to harp on the cost-to-performance benefits, but the Horizon Ultra’s color is fantastic, too, when compared to other, more expensive 4K long throw projectors. Out of the box, color reproduction is great and seems accurate no matter what I was watching and from whatever source. Covering up to 95.5% of the DCI-P3 gamut, the standard used by the digital cinema and film industry, and 99% of Rec.709, when watching non-Dolby Vision UHD content such as Prime Video’s Wheel of Time (I had watched this series on my LG OLED), big, sunny-day blue skies display beautiful and clear, the textures of the castle-wall bricks are vivid and lifelike, and the golden and orange swirls of the One Power glow with just the right amount of saturation. Darker tones could be darker for sure, but they’re not bad.
1.
A scene from Wheel of Time in Dolby Vision 2.
A scene from Wheel of Time in Dolby Vision 3.
Dolby Vision settings can be fine-tuned 4.
Picture settings for days To ensure you get the ideal brightness and color settings, the Horizon Ultra is pretty foolproof and has auto adjustment features for both brightness (based on the ambient light in the room) and color accuracy (it can measure the color of the wall or screen you’re using). Again, though, if you prefer a little more or less sharpness, brightness, contrast, color temperature, or saturation, for example, you can head to the Custom menu in Image Mode and fiddle away.
But wait, did I just yadda-yadda over the part where this thing does Dolby Vision? Because it does. And it does it well. First, it’s seamless. When watching Dolby Vision titles, whether on Netflix, Disney+, or on a Blu-ray for example, a notification appears on the screen to let you know that the picture has been optimized for it, which the projector does automatically like compatible TVs have done for years. The high-quality HDR standard allows the projector to receive additional scene-by-scene image information from Dolby Vision sources, which in street speak means more dynamic and accurate images. Additionally, you can also tell the projector your screen’s size and gain level for further Dolby Vision optimization.
Xgimi Horizon Ultra: s ound performance From the built-in dual 12-watt speakers on the Horizon Ultra, you get a couple of sound-setting options. By default, it is set to something called “Harman Kardon Original,” which, by the sounds of it, is standard stereo sound. For built-in speakers, the sound is OK. It’s clear at reasonable volumes (things get mucky when turned up too high), has decent mids and highs, and will do the trick in a pinch or until you get yourself a soundbar or use the projector’s HDMI eARC or optical ports to get more serious about it.
Then there’s the Ultra’s “DTS-Virtual: X” setting, that I can’t quite put my finger on. According to the DTS website , Virtual: X is supposed to be “capable of delivering an enhanced sound immersion and home theater experience with as few as two speakers.” I’m not sure that it’s pulling it off in the Horizon Ultra — I just don’t think the speakers are powerful enough. On the one hand, when compared to the “Harman Kardon Original” setting, the sound separation seems to widen a bit, making sound effects like laser blasts and explosions seem more distinct, but I wouldn’t by any stretch of the imagination call it “immersive.” Dialog is clear on both settings, to be sure, and that’s a good thing, but both settings are also desperately lacking in the low end. But look, if you’re going to invest even a couple of thousand dollars in a projector as capable as the Horizon Ultra, do yourself a favor and g et a soundbar or other sound solution; you won’t regret it.
Bottom line If you’ve been looking to usurp your TV and go the way of the projector to elevate your living room setup to a more theater-like experience, the Xgimi Horizon Ultra and its more-than-reasonable $1,700 price is a great start to test the waters. While it’s not a space-conscious ultra short throw projector , and you will have to take things like room size and furniture placement into consideration, the Horizon Ultra is compact enough to easily move around during setup, which is simple enough with its Android TV OS and laundry list of automatic image adjustment features that make it perfect for beginners out of the box.
But even if this isn’t your first rodeo, the Horizon Ultra holds its own with projectors twice its price. With the combination of its 2,300 ISO lumens of brightness, Dual Light system, Dolby Vision support that has only really been seen in higher-end projectors, and advanced picture adjustment features for those with the dexterity to play around, Xgimi has somehow packed all that and more into a gorgeous package and I wouldn’t hesitate to put it at the top of your projector shopping list.
Editors' Recommendations Epson’s EpiqVision Ultra LS650 is a new option for fans of UST laser projectors Toshiba C350 Fire TV does 4K, HDMI 2.1, and Dolby Vision, starting at $350 Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
