Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Xgimi MoGo 2 Pro review: a mini, but mighty Android TV projector By Derek Malcolm Close $599.00 Compact and easy setup Great auto keystone and focus features Excellent image in the dark Decent sound, doubles as a Bluetooth speaker Can be powered by USB-C power bank Image fades in bright rooms Android TV can be laggy Not very loud After two decades of writing about consumer tech, one thing that still never gets old is showing up somewhere, like a family gathering or a weekend camping trip, with some cool new gadget that makes the experience more fun or more enjoyable for everyone. For an excellent case in point, see Managing Editor Nick Mokey’s super-nerd camping story.
 And while I’ve never been so bold as to pack a microwave in a canoe, throwing a 120-inch image of Captain Marvel or Din Djarin up against the side of a trailer wall with a portable projector is a surefire path to oohs and ahs on the campground.
Setup and features Image size and quality Sound The bottom line On that note, I’m happy to report that the $599 Xgimi MoGo 2 Pro smart projector can and will elicit such sounds of delight and then some. A lightweight and compact DLP projector that resembles a slightly smaller Sonos Play:1 speaker, the MoGo 2 Pro runs on the familiar Android TV platform, is dead simple to use, and provides access to all your streaming services and loads of apps from the Google Play Store.
Best projector deals: Replace your TV for as low as $59 The best outdoor projector screens for 2023 Optoma’s CinemaX P2 short throw 4K projector has a built-in soundbar I’ve been toting the MoGo 2 Pro around with me for a couple of weeks. It’s a snap to set up and has some intelligent automatic focus and keystone adjustment features that are almost magic-like when projecting a movie or show on a wide range of surfaces. While it does struggle in brighter spaces, the MoGo 2 Pro excels in the dark and can produce a big and crisp 1080p image. And when the end credits roll, the MoGo 2 Pro doubles as a decent little Bluetooth speaker for post-movie music. The whole device can be powered by a portable power pack , making it an excellent all-in-one road trip entertainment buddy or even a great dorm room option for students. Let’s check it out.
Setup and features Derek Malcolm. / Digital Trends If you’re new to projectors and are worried about setting one up, don’t be. Open the box, prop the MoGo 2 Pro on a flat(ish) surface or tripod if you have one (it has a threaded hole for just that on the bottom), plug it into a power outlet with the included USB-C power brick (or a 65-watt power pack), turn it on, and point it at a wall or screen. The projector boots up quickly and even on the initial setup, the auto keystone correction and focus kick in and adjust the image so you can continue the setup process.
Android TV setup is just as easy, especially if you have an Android phone.
 The Android Quick Start feature pulls your Google account and Wi-Fi credentials from the device and even streamlines the login process with all your streaming services, which was actually the most painful part of the setup for me as I don’t use an Android device. Instead, I had to carry out the process with the included Bluetooth remote, which meant signing in to Google and all my streaming services (after downloading them all from the Play Store) manually with the on-screen (ugh!) keyboard. That took a while, and for some reason, Netflix had to be installed using a desktop manager app I needed to download first. It sounds like a lot, but the process doesn’t take any longer than setting up other streaming devices like a Roku or Fire TV, either of which, it’s worth mentioning, you could just connect to the MoGo 2 Pro’s HDMI port and skip much of this setup if you’d rather bypass Android TV altogether.
Auto keystone adjusts and aligns the image to whatever surface you’re projecting on and then sharpens the focus.
Once complete, the MoGo 2 Pro is ready to go in seconds from standby mode, at which time the projector’s nifty auto adjustments kick in. Each time you move the projector, even slightly, the auto keystone activates and adjusts and aligns the image to whatever surface you’re projecting on, and then sharpens the focus. It greatly simplifies things while jockeying the projector back-and-forth, side to side, and up or down to find the perfect size, angle, and position in any situation — the focus and shape of the image corrects itself every time. And while it can be a bit finicky, Xgimi also gives you the option to manually adjust the image, too.
Additional automatic features include a safeguard for kids and pets that detects movement in front of the projector and dims the bulb to protect fragile eyes, and an automatic obstacle detection feature that can rescale the image around things on the wall such as hanging art or light switches. Admittedly, I turned the eye protection feature off because it was triggering when anyone passed by (down in front!), and the object avoidance didn’t seem to notice a light switch at one point.
Image size and quality Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends The diminutive size (6.33 by 4.68 by 4.25 inches) and weight (2.42 pounds) of the MoGo 2 Pro and the ease at which it can be moved around meant that I could try just about any surface as a potential screen. The MoGo 2 Pro’s modest 400 ISO lumen DLP lamp (equivalent to around 500 ANSI lumens, if you’re comparing it to that more common standard) lets you project a 1920 x 1080 pixel image from 40 inches to 200 inches in size, although Xgimi recommends a range of between 60 inches and 120 inches for best results.
I tried the MoGo 2 Pro with all kinds of sizes on all kinds of surfaces, including projector screens, bed sheets, white walls, dark walls, shiplap walls, ceilings, doors, and floors. As you’d expect, the projector screens’ uniform surfaces and white color are made for the job, so this produced the best image clarity and color accuracy, especially at smaller sizes in the 40- to 60-inch range when the light can be more focused. But the MoGo 2 Pro did a pretty good job across the board, and while I mainly opted for a size of around 100 inches, I could easily scale up to around 120 inches before noticing any degradation of the image or the brightness starting to wash out.
1.
The MoGo 2 Pro’s image with a little ambient room light.
2.
The MoGo 2 Pro’s image in a dark room.
But here’s the most important part: The MoGo 2 Pro is at its best in the dark. The darker, the better. Draw the blinds, close the doors, head to the basement, or just do your viewing at night as it doesn’t take much ambient light to wash out the MoGo’s image. But give it the darkness it needs and what you get is a bright, colorful, and clear image that I was shocked came from such a small package. The MoGo 2 Pro has a handful of brightness settings you can choose from, such as Vivid, Cinema, and Bright. In a dark room, you can notice minor differences between them — Vivid has a little more contrast, Cinema has a bit of a yellow tinge, and Bright (the brightest, go figure) is cooler in temperature — but they’re so subtle, it’s inconsequential. If you’re really finicky, though, you can go nuts with the Custom mode and fine-tune it yourself.
Give it the darkness it needs and what you get is a bright, colorful, and clear image that I was shocked came from such a small package.
I watched several hours of content on the MoGo 2 Pro, from Marvel movies to Netflix series to YouTube videos. The projection can get big, looks fantastic, and does a great job making the atmosphere feel like a movie theater, which is what you want, right? Black levels aren’t great — they’re more dark gray than black — but for the features, out-of-the-box readiness, and portability at this price, you can’t really go wrong.
Sound The venerable Sonos Play:1 (left) next to the Xgimi MoGo 2 Pro.
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends As far as portable projectors go, the sound from the MoGo 2 Pro is pretty good, especially when in a small room. Pairing a set of Bluetooth speakers would be better, and you can totally do that. But, again, for the throw-it-in-a-bag-and-go portability you get from this projector, it does the job reasonably well. Two 8-watt, side-firing speakers and a passive rear-firing woofer pump out a decently wide soundstage when watching movies and TV, and there are four sound modes you can choose from: Movie, Sports, Music, and News. Honestly, though? “Movie” sounds better than all of them, so I just left it on that, even when (segue alert!) listening to music using the MoGo 2 Pro as a Bluetooth speaker.
Bluetooth 5.0 connectivity makes pairing with a phone or computer easy, and once the music is playing from your chosen streaming app (or over its built-in Chromecast) you can hit the power button on the remote and turn the projector light off. You can also connect any audio source to the MoGo 2 Pro with a 3.5 mm AUX input. It’s not a party speaker , though, and it doesn’t get very loud, but once the kids are asleep, the sound is enough to provide tunes around the fire.
The bottom line There was a familiarity with using the Xgimi MoGo 2 Pro that I couldn’t quite put my finger on when I started this review. Once it was all set up and personalized with my apps and preferences, turning any space into a mini theater, complete with sound, made me feel like the guy who shows up with the Bluetooth speaker and gets the party started: turn it on, point it at something reasonably clean and flat, and it’s movie time.
The projection can get big, looks fantastic, and does a great job making any atmosphere feel like a movie theater.
There’s not much to complain about either. With 400 ISO lumens, it’s not the brightest projector out there, the sound isn’t going to rumble your backyard, and the Android TV operating system is a little sluggish at times, But for its $600 price, it’s an excellent value and handily competes with other portable projectors in the category such as Anker’s popular Nebula Capsule II ($500) and even Samsung’s $800 The Freestyle.
The auto setup and keystone/focus adjustment features alone on the MoGo 2 Pro are worth the price of admission. It’s portable, lightweight, doubles as a Bluetooth speaker, and its Android TV 11 operating system is well-established, easy to use, and offers a world of apps and services you can take anywhere. I’m looking forward to reviewing more projectors from Xgimi.
Editors' Recommendations Nebula’s new Capsule 3 and Mars 3 Air projectors go with Google TV Best 4K projectors for 2023 LG’s Full HD LED CineBeam projector comes with webOS 5 on board Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
