Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Sony TV Black Friday Deals: Sales to shop now By Lucas Coll Close Though Black Friday’s over for another year, we’re still feeling excited at the Sony TV Black Friday deals going on right now. A well-respected brand for good reason, Sony makes some of the best TVs around — but they’re rarely discounted. That changes during the Black Friday deals season with some great discounts going on. That’s why we’re focusing on Sony TVs here, so you can save big. With many retailers discounting the brand, read on while we take you through all the best deals out there on Sony TVs. Whether you’re looking for something budget-friendly or a Sony TV to add to your home theater setup, there’s a deal here for you.
Sony X80K Series 4K Google TV — From $450 Sony 55-inch X75K Series 4K Google TV — $480, was $550 Sony Bravia XR A80K 4K OLED Google TV — From $1,300 Sony 65-inch Bravia XR A90J 4K OLED Google TV — $2,500, was $2,800 Sony X80K Series 4K Google TV — From $450 Image used with permission by copyright holder Sony makes some solid budget-friendly TVs for a name brand, and the X80K Series 4K television is a reasonably priced smart TV available in a wide array of different sizes. This set runs on the Google TV software platform, so you’ve got access to all of the top streaming apps and content libraries along with the Google Assistant AI built right in. That allows you to control the TV using voice commands (via the voice remote) and sync it up with other Google smart devices like a Nest smart speaker or hub. The X80K Series 4K TV sports some other Sony touches as well, including support for Dolby Vision HDR and Dolby Atmos sound, 4K X-Reality PRO that upscales legacy content for a 4K display, Triluminous Pro for a wider color spectrum, Motionflow XR for a blur-free picture, and exclusive picture-enhancing features for PlayStation.
The Sony X80K Series 4K Google TV is available in a wide array of sizes from 43 inches to 85 inches, making it a good (and affordable) choice for just about any room. All of them are on sale right now with early Black Friday prices starting as low as $450.
Sony 55-inch X75K Series 4K Google TV — $480, was $550 Image used with permission by copyright holder If a 55-inch TV is what you’re after but you want something a bit cheaper than the Sony X80K 4K TV, check out the Sony X75K Series. These two UHD Google TVs are very similar, with the X75K being last year’s model and the X80K featuring some relatively minor updates. The Sony X75K is still a very solid 4K television, though, not to mention a great value while it’s still in stock (TV makers tend to update these things yearly, with older models disappearing from shelves pretty quickly afterward). Its Google TV software gives you voice control and smart home integration via Google Assistant , while Sony’s 4K Processor X1, 4K X-Reality PRO, and Motionflow XR deliver a clear and smooth Ultra HD image with good motion handling. It lacks the Triluminous Pro feature found on the newer X80K Series, resulting in slightly less color accuracy, but considering its much lower price, that’s a sacrifice that you may be willing to make.
The 55-inch Sony X75K Series 4K Google TV is on sale right now for $480, giving you a discount of $70 and making this one $100 cheaper than the 55-inch Sony X80K Series model. Want to go bigger? The 65-inch Sony X75K is also on sale for $580 ($120 off), which is $120 less than the comparable X80K Series.
Sony Bravia XR A80K 4K OLED Google TV — From $1,300 Image used with permission by copyright holder More dedicated home theater enthusiasts should consider upgrading to an OLED TV like the Sony Bravia XR A80K Series. OLED, short for organic light-emitting diode, features self-lit pixels rather than traditional backlighting, which results in a gorgeous picture with the deeper contrast than you’ll find on even a QLED TV.
 In layman’s terms, black will actually look black and not gray, because parts of the panel can be completely unlit while other parts are showing a picture. The Bravia XR A80K can also upscale your older content to look better than ever before (something Sony TVs are known for doing quite well), and Bravia TVs also feature exclusive enhancements when hooked up to a PlayStation 5 , making this a great TV for gaming. Other nice features to see include HDMI 2.1 ports and a 120Hz refresh rate, and although it’s a Google TV , the Bravia XR A80K also has Alexa built in if you prefer Amazon’s smart helper over Google Assistant.
Sony 65-inch Bravia XR A90J 4K OLED Google TV — $2,500, was $2,800 Riley Young/Digital Trends There’s no denying that OLED televisions can get expensive, but if you’re a die-hard cinephile and you want the cream of the crop, then the Sony Bravia XR A90J 4K HDR OLED TV is up there. Along with its stunning 4K OLED display, this TV features Sony’s Cognitive Processor XR to deliver a stunningly realistic picture, as noted in our review. Other novel technologies include XR OLED Contrast Pro and XR Triluminous Pro Color, which work together to deliver color depth and dynamic contrast that no LED or QLED panel can rival. And, of course, XR 4K Upscaling ensures that your older non- 4K media will still look beautiful.
HDMI 2.1 ports, a 120Hz refresh rate, and PS5-exclusive features mean that your games will look great, too, while support for modern HDR formats including Dolby Vision let you get the most out of modern HDR content. The Sony Bravia XR A90J 4K OLED TV pretty much has it all, and while it’s not cheap, early Sony TV Black Friday deals take a nice chunk off its sticker price.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 DJI Mini 3 Pro Black Friday deal saves you $110 on the drone The best racing wheel and pedal Black Friday deals for PC, Xbox and PlayStation I recommend shopping this Black Friday TV deal right now This is hands-down the best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deal Audio / Video Black Friday Sony Gaming If you've been waiting for a discount on the PlayStation 5 before finally buying it, you should check out the Walmart Black Friday sale. The retailer is offering $61 discounts on a pair of PS5 bundles that include a copy of Marvel's Spider-Man 2 or Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III, so instead of $560, you'll only have to pay $499. There's no telling how long these PS5 Black Friday deals will last though, as demand for the console is still pretty high. If you're interested in taking advantage of the lowered price of either bundle, you'll have to proceed with the purchase immediately as stocks may be gone sooner than you think.
PlayStation 5 Disc Console - Marvel's Spider-Man 2 bundle -- $499, was $560 This PlayStation 5 bundle comes with the original version of the console with an 825GB hard drive, not the new model with a 1TB hard drive, so you may want to also check out the available PS5 SSD Black Friday deals for extra storage space. The game that comes with it, Marvel's Spider-Man 2, continues the story of Marvel's Spider-Man and Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales, with Peter Parker and Miles Morales teaming up once again to take down Venom. The open-world adventure takes advantage of the PS5's DualSense wireless controller by using haptic feedback with Peter Parker's symbiote abilities and Miles Morales' bio-electric skills, and by utilizing its adaptive triggers to unleash a full range of moves and combos on your enemies.
Entertainment December is quickly approaching, and if you have a Star Wars or Lego lover in your life, then this Lego Star Wars advent calendar is the perfect gift to get them. While there isn't a big discount on it during these Black Friday deals, you can still grab it from Walmart for $34 instead of $50, saving yourself a cool $11. Also, the sooner you pick it up, the better so that your loved one (or yourself) can start it as soon as it's time to.
Why you should buy the Lego Star Wars advent calendar It's not often you see something as unique and fun as the Lego Star Wars advent calendar, especially since it doesn't seem like a product that doesn't have any thought put into it. Everything that comes in the advent calendar is self-contained, meaning you don't need to have additional Lego sets or anything to enjoy it. So this can be a great first introduction to Star Wars and Lego for kids or even a great gift for adults who don't usually collect Legos but can have a nice and fun experience without too much buy-in in terms of time.
Audio / Video Sonos is one of the brands to watch for during Black Friday because it's one of the most popular names in the audio industry. If you're planning to buy a new soundbar or speaker, you're in luck because Best Buy just launched a Sonos Black Friday sale. There are discounts on different kinds of devices, with prices ranging from affordable to expensive, so no matter your needs and budget, there's surely going to be a perfect offer for you from these Black Friday deals. You'll need to hurry in choosing what you'll purchase if you're interested though, because we're not sure when these bargains will expire.
What to buy in Best Buy's Sonos Black Friday sale If you're on the hunt for Black Friday soundbar deals, we highly recommend going for the Sonos Arc, which is Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
