Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Black Friday soundbar deals for 2022 By Andrew Morrisey Close Black Friday has been and gone, but if you missed out on the best Black Friday deal s, there’s no need to worry. There are still some epic Black Friday soundbar deals out there, though how long they’ll stick around for is anybody’s guess! Retailers love to discount luxury tech items at times like these, and that definitely includes soundbars. Among the best deals are brands like Bose, Samsung, and Sonos, along with more budget-friendly options. If you’re keen to soup up the audio quality of your home theater, you’re going to love the deals we’ve rounded up for you below. Each will pair up beautifully with the best Black Friday TV deals too, if you’re really looking to amp up movie night.
Roku Streambar — $80, was $130 Samsung 2.1-channel soundbar — $130, was $280 Vizio 5.1-channel V-Series soundbar — $200, was $250 Sonos Beam (2nd Gen) — $360, was $450 Samsung HW-Q750B 5.1.2-channel soundbar — $480, was $800 Sonos Arc — $720, was $900 Bose Smart Soundbar 900 — $800, was $900 Samsung 11.1.4-channel soundbar — $1,400, was $1,900 Roku Streambar — $80, was $130 Image used with permission by copyright holder There are a lot of great reasons why you need to buy the Roku Streambar.
 It’s an incredibly minimal option for people with small spaces, or who just don’t want a complicated entertainment setup. It has built-in 4K streaming with channels that launch quickly, and it includes access to a massive selection of free, live, and premium TV programming, including Roku Originals and more than 300 live TV channels on the Roku Channel. It produces big sound for cinematic experiences, and features like advanced audio engineering automatically make speech clearer and commercials quieter.
Samsung 2.1-channel soundbar — $130, was $280 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Samsung 2.1-channel soundbar is great soundbar for somebody just starting out with their home theater setup, for somebody in a small space, and for anybody who just wants to get some better sound coming out of their television. It comes with a wireless subwoofer and is able to pair with a Samsung remote, preventing the need for having multiple remote controls lying around. This soundbar is also Wireless Surround Sound compatible, allowing you to turn it into a complete surround sound system with optional rear Samsung speakers in just a few simple steps, and without the mess of wires.
Vizio 5.1-channel V-Series soundbar — $200, was $250 Vizio The Vizio 5.1-channel V-Series soundbar is one of the best value plays you can make for your home theater, as it includes a subwoofer and two discreet, low-profile surround sound speakers that are volume-adjustable to your liking. This soundbar is optimized for 4K HDR content with Dolby Audio 5.1, bringing out the best audio performance from your 4K content when connecting through HDMI. It has some smarts as well, as you can use your voice to control Alexa, Siri, or Google Assistant through the soundbar. It’s easy to set up, and makes great competition for some of the best soundbars under $500.
Sonos Beam (2nd Gen) — $360, was $450 Image used with permission by copyright holder The second-generation Sonos Beam is not only an upgrade over its first iteration but it’s also one of the best soundbars under $500 and one of the best soundbars all around. Sonos is one of the premier names in home theater audio, and with the Beam 2 it’s made a soundbar with high-quality audio at a very reasonable price point. It has Dolby Atmos, which creates a rich, immersive audio environment no matter what you may be watching or listening to. Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant can connect wirelessly, and help you to set timers, check the news, and control your smart home devices. You can also control the soundbar and its paired TV with these voice assistants. This deal on the Sonos Beam 2 includes four free months of Apple Music and a free four-month trial of Amazon Music Unlimited.
Samsung HW-Q750B 5.1.2-channel soundbar — $480, was $800 Image used with permission by copyright holder Like all of the best soundbars , the Samsung HW-Q750B soundbar launches your home theater audio experience into the next level of immersion. It creates a cinematic experience with five channels, one subwoofer, and two up-firing channels. It also has Wireless Dolby Atmos technology, which allows it to create a surround sound experience without the need for HDMI cables. The Samsung HW-Q750B soundbar works with voice assistants and AirPlay 2. It even comes with a rear speaker kit, which allows you to fill the room with theater-like sound, with these speakers able to project audio above and around you.
Sonos Arc — $720, was $900 Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the best soundbars on the market, the Sonos Arc is a great option for any home theater, but it also makes a great choice if you’re looking to build your home theater one piece at a time. It can wirelessly connect to more speakers at any point in the process, and it pairs well with any of the best A/V receivers.
 Dolby Atmos brings 3D sound to your viewing experiences, and it produces high-quality audio no matter what you may be watching or listening to. The Sonos Arc has 11 high-performance drivers that masterfully deliver sound from all directions at the right moment. It was specially tuned by Oscar-winning sound engines to emphasize the human voice, so it will always ensure you’re keeping up with the storyline. This deal on the Sonos Arc includes four free months of Amazon Music Unlimited and four free months of Apple Music.
Bose Smart Soundbar 900 — $800, was $900 Image used with permission by copyright holder Whether you’re in the market for soundbars or speakers , Bose is one of the best brand names available. It proves such with the Bose Smart Soundbar 900 , a soundbar that delivers spacious sound, clear dialogue, and rich bass for your movies, music, and games. This soundbar is specifically designed to keep it physically sleek and elegant, making it a beautiful addition to your home theater. It has built-in voice assistants, and you can even connect it with Bose headphones or any Bose Bluetooth speaker. It’s easy to set up and use, and with features like Dolby Atmos, it will fit in nicely with the rest of your home theater setup.
Samsung 11.1.4-channel soundbar — $1,400, was $1,900 The Samsung HW-Q990B is an impressive soundbar that includes 11 channels, as well as one subwoofer and four up-firing channels. Its perfectly synchronized audio uses every speaker in compatible Samsung TVs and soundbars, making this a great option if you already have a Samsung TV, or if you’re looking at one of the best TVs.
 This soundbar has adaptive sound that optimizes audio so you can follow along with action-packed games and movies, and SpaceFit Sound+ technology allows the soundbar to scan the room and automatically calibrate the audio to create a true-to-life experience in any home theater.
Editors' Recommendations The 3 best Alienware gaming PC Black Friday deals available now This is hands-down the best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deal This Lego Star Wars advent calendar is 32% off for Black Friday The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Black Friday AirPods Deals: Get Apple’s earbuds for $59 Audio / Video Black Friday Soundbars Speakers Mobile There's no better time to take advantage of iPad deals than on Black Friday, as the discounts are the largest that they could be from the various retailers. Whether you're on a tight budget and are hoping to get the entry-level 10.2-inch Apple iPad for even cheaper than usual, or you're planning to make a huge investment on the powerful Apple iPad Pro, you won't be disappointed by this year's Black Friday deals. So that you can complete your purchase before stocks run out, we've rounded up the top offers that are available for the shopping holiday -- if you see a bargain that you like, push through with the transaction as soon as possible.
Best 10.2-inch iPad Black Friday deals The 10.2-inch Apple iPad, which includes the seventh to the ninth generations of the entry-level Apple iPad, remains one of the cheapest ways to jump into the iPad experience. They're not the latest models available, but they're still very capable devices because they can be upgraded to iPadOS 17, which is the newest version of Apple's operating system for tablets. If you want to get a 10.2-inch iPad for an even more affordable price, you may want to consider a refurbished one, especially since it would come with a return guarantee if it stops working properly.
Mobile If you've been waiting to grab a smartwatch for yourself or a family member, Black Friday deals have presented the perfect opportunity. With big savings out there on some of the best smartwatches, you can get the watch you want while still saving plenty of cash in the meantime. With many options out there, we've picked out the very best Black Friday smartwatch deals. There are some great brands around including those from Apple, Fitbit, Garmin, and also Samsung Galaxy Watches too. We've highlighted them all so let's get straight into what's available.
Best Fitbit Black Friday deals For many people, Fitbit is the name to home in on when it comes to smartwatches and fitness trackers. Responsible for some of the best fitness trackers, Fitbit develops devices like the Fitbit Sense 2 which are more like conventional smartwatches, as well as pseudo smartwatches/fitness trackers like the Fitbit Charge 6. The Fitbit ecosystem is easy to get involved in providing a simple to use interface and all the key information you could need like steps taken, calories burned, and how many flights of stairs you've climbed. Generally more affordable than full smartwatches, they're a great introduction to the smart wearable world, and Fitbit Black Friday deals have brought the price down even more.
Mobile Apple makes one of the best smartwatches on available, but it comes with the Apple price tag. The Apple Watch is not cheap, but Black Friday deals can cut the price a bit. We've pulled our favorite Black Friday smartwatch deals on the most recent Apple Watch releases: SE, Series 9 and Ultra. The bottom of this list includes some deals on older models, too. Almost everything comes from Amazon Black Friday deals, so if you're looking for Apple discounts, start there. These are all available right now, even though Black Friday is still a ways away.
Best Apple Watch SE Black Friday deals The Apple Watch SE is Apple's budget-friendly smartwatch option. If all you need in a smartwatch is health stats and some basic phone integration (and you need to stick with Apple), the SE is your best bet. The Apple Watch SE 2 is one of our favorite options, and we don't have much bad to say about it. If you're looking for something cheap and don't mind shopping beyond Apple, Fitbit Black Friday deals are taking off right now, and Fitbit offers similar functionality as the Apple Watch SE. Below you'll find some SE options with and without GPS, and both 44mm and 40mm.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
