Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Apple HomePod mini packs big features in a slim body for just $99 By John Velasco Close The Apple HomePod mini is finally official after being introduced to the world at today’s Apple event.
 Its release marks the potential rise of Siri in the ever-evolving smart home, and paves the way for consumers to further embrace the speaker, especially given how the original carried a premium price. Don’t let its smaller size fool you, though — it packs quite a punch at just $99, a price that makes it significantly easier for people to welcome Siri into more homes.
First, let’s talk about the new design. It’s a stark departure from the original HomePod, with a more spherical shape. The top has been shaved off a bit to accommodate a touch panel for various media playback controls. There’s also an LED ring that will turn on whenever Siri is accessed. The HomePod mini’s spherical shape looks similar to the new Amazon Echo smart speakers announced not too long ago, and the mesh fabric that wraps the unit gives it an interesting look.
Apple Under the hood, it’s powered by Apple’s S5 chip, and the compact smart speaker delivers 360-degree sound no matter where it’s at. While Apple didn’t share the details around the speaker driver that’s powering the HomePod mini, you can be assured that audio performance is at the top of the list. Based on the price, it’s certainly not expected to deliver the same level of performance as the original, but it should compete against the likes of the Google Nest Audio.
 There’s even the option to achieve stereo output by pairing two units together for even more audio power.
With Siri on board, the HomePod mini also receives enhancements that allow it to recognize different voices. Controlling the smart home is going to be more convenient than ever before, as the mini appears to act as a home hub for HomeKit-compatible devices, making it a far more attractive option than the original HomePod, Apple TV, or iPad. There’s also deep iPhone integration with the HomePod mini, which allows users to place their iPhone within close proximity to the speaker to let them know some of the details about what the speaker is playing.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Three years after Apple introduced its smart speaker, this follow-up stands a better chance of succeeding. It brings all of Siri’s smarts in terms of controlling HomeKit-enabled devices, while retaining a strong focus on audio performance. It follows the announcements of other recent smart speakers like the Amazon Echo (4th Gen) and Google Nest Audio.
The HomePod mini’s arrival comes at a critical point for Apple, mainly because HomeKit has trailed its rivals in the smart home space. Its $99 price may help give it broader appeal that will help Siri better compete against other smart assistants in the smart home. It will be available in two colors, white or black, with pre-orders going live starting on November 6 and shipping beginning on November 16. And finally, don’t forget all the Apple deals right now happening for Amazon Prime Day.
Editors' Recommendations The new HomePod is still too expensive, which is exactly how Apple wants it Price of Apple’s old AirPods drop to $129 with release of new model How to set up a HomePod for stereo audio HomePod owners can now ask Siri to play music from Deezer Amazon Echo Studio vs. Apple HomePod Apple Tech News Smart Home Am I surprised that the Apple HomePod Mini is hiding a stowaway inside of it? Not really. After a report surfaced recently about how Apple’s latest smart speaker has a sensor tucked away inside of it to measure temperature and humidity, it’s natural to speculate on the reason why it's there in the first place -- and more importantly, why it's not active. This comes as no shock to me, mainly because the HomePod Mini isn’t the first (and won't be the last) smart home gadget to hide away inactive sensors.
Inactive sensors are common Temperature and humidity sensors are used for a number of purposes. In the case of the HomePod Mini, one would suspect that it could be used to monitor if the speaker is overheating. However, since it’s actually positioned away from the main components of the speaker, it leads one to assume that it could be used to monitor the ambient temperature and humidity of where it’s placed. This brings me to the point about inactive sensors -- they’re more common than you think.
The example that first comes to mind are the various inactive sensors in some of LIFX’s smart light bulbs. These sensors were deliberately placed in its products, mainly to future-proof its product line. In one example I was shown during a meeting at CES 2020, an accelerometer embedded inside one of its light bulbs allowed me to turn the bulb on or off with a subtle tap of the lamp -- while another sensor, an ambient light sensor, could be accessed to intelligently turn the bulb on or off at sunrise and sunset.
Smart Home Apple will stop selling its HomePod smart speaker and instead focus on the smaller version of the device.
The company confirmed its decision to TechCrunch, adding that the larger version of the smart speaker will continue to be available until supplies run out.
Audio / Video After months of speculation and rampant rumors, Apple has finally launched its own over-ear headphones in the form of the AirPods Max. The product was just the latest open secret floating around the Cupertino giant’s orbit in a year of leaks and early reveals.
There is no doubt the AirPods Max headphones are interesting, with their premium features and wallet-gouging $549 price tag. Yet I cannot help but feel Apple is repeating a similar mistake -- and it has everything to do with that price.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
