Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple TV 4K (2022) review: overpowered in all the right ways By Caleb Denison Close $149.00 Lightning quick navigation Gorgeous Audio and Video output Feature-packed Extremely Powerful Intuitive, uncluttered interface Several features exclusive to Apple users The latest generation of Apple TV 4K is here. There are two versions, separated by several features and a mere $20, with a few key upgrades here and there. It would be easy to kind of glaze over what’s new and different, but I have a different take for this Apple TV 4K 2022 review.
Video review What’s new Powerful potential Stitching up the smart home For the AV enthusiasts An end to that annoying black screen A powerhouse streamer, not just for Apple fans I think the fact that not a lot has changed is among some of the best news I can deliver, but some new features, including a super-powerful processor, push the new Apple TV 4K 2022 over the top.
Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more Still, if you’re considering saving even more money by buying the older 2nd-Generation version, you can learn more about the differences between the two in our Apple TV 4K (2021) vs. Apple TV 4K (2022) comparison.
Video review What’s new To begin, let’s run down the two new Apple TV 4K products we have. First off, prices are down a bit, which I think we can all agree is a big step in the right direction. There’s now a $130 version and a $150 version — about $50 less expensive than what the last refresh cost at launch. Both have the same Siri remote, now with a USB-C connector.
Both get an A15 Bionic chip, and both now support HDR 10+ in addition to Dolby Vision HDR and several other HDR formats.
Stepping up to the premium version gets you double the onboard storage, 128GB up from 64GB in the lesser model. It also keeps Gigabit Ethernet support (the lesser model loses it), and it has Thread networking support, which we will discuss more below.
I’m going to focus on the premium version in this review, because that’s the one I received for evaluation, but also because I think that if you’re going to buy a new Apple TV 4K, this is the one you should buy.
First off, it’s only $20 more than the lesser model. Second, as I’ll discuss shortly, there’s a good chance you might need the extra storage in the future, even if you don’t need the Ethernet port and Thread support.
Powerful potential As pleased as I am that there’s a USB-C Siri remote (even though it’s a bit of a boring upgrade ) and that Gigabit Ethernet has been added along with the support for Thread , the most notable improvement to the new Apple TV 4K is the upgrade to Apple’s A15 Bionic chip.
You’re not going to run into that issue with Apple TV 4K, because the processor is kind of a monster.
One of the chief reasons I recommend folks get an Apple TV is that the device has always offered a significant amount of processing headroom, and the A15 bionic — up from the A12 in the second-generation model — continues that trend. Unlike so many other tech devices that suffer from planned obsolescence, the Apple TV 4K is built to last. For many years to come, it’s going to be able to handle the latest apps, as well asoffer quick load times and fast scrolling. It’s going to be able to handle increasingly fancy on-screen graphics. It’s going to be able to handle updates Apple may have on its roadmap or even stuff Apple hasn’t even conceived of yet.
Or, to look at it another way, a first-generation Apple TV 4K released in 2017 likely still works just fine, and it’s still supported by Apple.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends I have a smart TV at home that’s only a couple of years old, and it is now slow as molasses just opening apps, nevermind delays in getting a stream started. It routinely stalls on me, which I find very frustrating. You’re not going to run into that kind of issue with Apple TV 4K, because the processor is kind of a monster. I love how quick the experience of using this device is. Apps seem to launch a bit faster than the 2021 model, and they clearly launch far faster than they did with the old HD version.
Apple’s gaming future? I suspect that horsepower is there for at least one more reason beyond future-proofing. Apple sent me a PlayStation 5 controller along with the review unit without really saying anything more about it. Apple hasn’t announced anything specific about any developments in its gaming aspirations, but it stands to reason the more powerful chip could deliver smoother and more responsive gameplay for games available now, as well as more graphics-intensive games in the future.
I don’t know what’s in store for the future of Apple Arcade or if Apple’s gaming ambitions range beyond Apple Arcade, or at least Apple Arcade as we know it today. But something tells me gaming isn’t going to be an add-on feature that just sort of disappears into the background like it did on, say, Roku (or killed off entirely like Google Stadia.
) It’s entirely possible the new Apple TV 4K is a gateway into Apple’s bigger, better gaming plans — or maybe even Netflix’s gaming plans. I can see the Apple TV 4K making it to Netflix’s list of supported devices soon, and if it does, the Apple TV 4K will be ready to take on those games.
That’s where I think the need for more onboard storage comes in. If Apple gets more aggressive with making the Apple TV 4K a real gaming device, having enough storage to handle bigger games is going to be absolutely necessary.
Of course, I’m also hopeful — perhaps foolishly so — that Apple TV 4K could one day support cloud-based gaming, even if the biggest cloud-gaming players right now are big Apple competitors.
Stitching up the smart home Beyond gaming, I also think this new Apple TV 4K is a sort of Trojan horse or gateway to a better smart home experience. I know that the second-gen Apple TV 4K already has a Thread radio in it, but something feels different with this new version.
Thread, if you’re not familiar, is part of a standard that aims to make smart home device use far easier than it’s been for the past several years. Think of it as a low-power wireless communications system that’s independent of your home wireless network. Let’s say you get a new video doorbell that’s Thread-enabled. Instead of having to connect it to your network using an app, it would just connect to the local Thread network. It’s the “thread” that stitches all your smart home stuff together. Only one Thread device needs to be connected to the internet, and then they all have access.
I think the new Apple TV 4K here is going to end up being a big part of that transition as it takes place. Again, this is tech that’s been built into the second-gen Apple TV 4K for a while now, but something about Apple highlighting its inclusion in the $150 Apple TV Wi-Fi/Ethernet model makes it feel like it’s poised to take off. The Apple TV 4K as a home hub is looking more and more promising.
Again, to repeat, you have to buy the $150 Apple TV 4K for all this Thread stuff. The less-expensive model doesn’t have it.
For the AV enthusiasts And, finally, there’s the addition of HDR 10+ support, which is interesting because this basically just helps out Samsung TV owners. Samsung is the last hold-out on Dolby Vision , refusing to pay the licensing fees to add it to their TVs and, instead, pushing forward the open and free standard of HDR 10+. Considering Samsung is the number-one TV brand in terms of sales, it makes sense Apple would want to serve that audience.
That means that shows and movies on, say, Amazon Prime Video and Apple TV + that would have been in plain-jane HDR on a Samsung TV while everyone else was getting Dolby Vision will now be in HDR 10+, offering a better overall HDR experience that’s much closer to that experience by Dolby Vision users.
So long as I’m on the topic of A/V features that appeal to enthusiasts, I feel like I need to revisit Spatial Audio on the Apple TV 4K. This is one thing the Apple TV 4K does that no other streaming box is doing nearly as well right now. The AirPods Pro 2 or the AirPods Max connected to the Apple TV 4K, with head tracking turned on, is, in my opinion, the best personal audio experience there is for watching movies. And I say this having heard some incredibly convincing DTS Headphone:X demos. Spatial Audio on Apple products, though, is an end-to-end solution that just works and is so much fun. This is the closest I’ve heard to big-theater Dolby Atmos in the home, and I say this as someone who has tested numerous Dolby Atmos Soundbars and Dolby Atmos surround speaker systems.
An end to that annoying black screen Folks who have experienced an annoying picture dropout when switching from one type of media to another will be pleased to know that a future TVOS update will allow the new Apple TV 4K (2022) to support quick media switching, better known in A/V circles as QMS. As one of many promised HDMI 2.1 features , QMS will work in coordination with variable refresh rate (VRR) to ensure there’s no “adjustment period” — manifesting as a black screen — when switching from, say, a 24 FPS movie to a 60 FPS video. Presently, no TVs support QMS, but they soon will, and when they do, the forward-looking Apple TV 4K (2022) will be ready.
A powerhouse streamer, not just for Apple fans To recap what’s new: The A15 Bionic Chip keeps the Apple TV 4K seriously overpowered, and that’s a very good thing. It looks like Gaming is about to get even bigger on the Apple TV 4K, though, admittedly, that remains to be proven. HDR 10+ support brings a better experience to Samsung TV owners. The built-in Thread radio keeps the box ready to be at the heart of a smart home, and we’re one step closer to not needing Lightning cables anymore as Apple continues its transition toward USB-C.
Apple TV 4K consistently supports the best video and audio quality available across a broad variety of apps.
That’s the case for the new Apple TV 4K, but a lot about what has endeared me to this streaming set-top box hasn’t changed and isn’t new. So, do I still love it? Previous Next 1 3 Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends / Digital Trends I do. It wasn’t always that way, though. For many years, I was not in love with the Apple TV 4K. It seemed overpriced, comically overpowered, and too much of an Apple fan device. But over time, I’ve changed my tune.
I’ve come to appreciate the Apple TV, because it is reliably fast, it has the least ad-riddled interface available, it’s got top-notch cross-platform search to help you find and start watching whatever it is you want to watch, and it consistently supports the best video and audio quality available across a broad variety of apps.
And, yes, there is also a long list of reasons that Apple device users will especially like it, like SharePlay, Siri control with AirPods, Audio Sharing, Picture Calibration, and the ability to use your iPhone, iPad, or Apple Watch as a remote. AirPlay, HomeKit , Apple Photos, Apple Music , and Apple Fitness are integrated with the Apple Watch so you can see your rings progress on-screen as you work out. The list goes on.
Is it the most versatile streamer out there? Well, Nvidia Shield can do a few things the Apple TV 4K can’t. And for portability, I’m way more likely to toss a new Chromecast into my bag than an Apple TV 4K. But on the whole, the Apple TV 4K is probably the smartest, most advanced, most future-proof streamer available that will suit most people’s needs. It doesn’t try to be all things to all people, but what it does, it does better than anything else.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Apple Apple TV Product Reviews TV TV Reviews Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Audio / Video If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That's why we've listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don't have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there's something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we've picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV -- $298, was $348 The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that's ideal if you're on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There's also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
Audio / Video Checking out all the TV deals but know your heart is set on a 75-inch model? We've narrowed things down here to all the best 75-inch TV deals going on at the moment. Encompassing everything from regular 4K TVs to the latest in 8K and Mini-LED technology, there's something for every budget and need here. Keep reading while we take you through the best options currently available.
Onn. 75-inch 4K TV -- $498 The Onn. 75-inch 4K TV isn't technically on sale but it's an amazing price for a 75-inch 4K TV. Its huge 75-inch screen is teamed up with useful features like three HDMI ports. It also has Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily find movies and TV episodes across thousands of free or paid channels. There's also the Roku mobile app which means that you can use voice commands to find what you want to watch rather than needing to use the remote. It's straightforward enough and ideal for those on a budget.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
