Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Blu-ray players for 2023 By Michael Bizzaco and Simon Cohen Close Blu-ray players may not be the ultra-expensive and revered AV components they once were, but these awesome disc players still have a meaningful place in your entertainment system. Streaming is definitely more convenient, but when it comes to packing byte after byte of picture and sound data onto a medium that doesn't require an internet connection (in most cases), an excellent Blu-ray player is still your best bet.
With its stellar picture, impressive codec support, and affordable price tag, our team ranks Sony’s UBP-X700M as the best Blu-ray player currently on the market. But we understand that what works for someone else might not work for you. Depending on what you’re looking for, some of the other best Blu-ray players we’ve rounded up might be a much better fit.
More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Sony UBP-X700M The best overall Blu-ray player Affordable Effective upscaling for older media HDR10 and Dolby Vision support Not as good as some of our other Sony picks If you are looking for ways to make sure even your older Blu-rays perform as well as they can with your new 4K TV , this UBP-X700M model is a 4K Blu-ray player with excellent upscaling even for older formats. It's also highly compact, super-easy to set up, and includes dual HDMI ports if you prefer an audio-only HDMI option in your setup.
It's also a powerful audio platform, with support for 24-bit hi-res audio formats, as well as HDR10, Dolby Vision, and other support to ensure that you're getting the most cinematic results for your experience.
In addition to awesome disc playback, the player's powerful Wi-Fi chip and Ethernet port enable fast 4K streaming. Finally, Sony’s TV SideView app lets you control your screen from your smartphone, as well as share your entire smartphone screen with your TV, which is great for showing friends and family pictures and videos.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Sony UBP-X800M2 The best Blu-ray player for music Very strong format support Great specs for music and audio Simultaneous Bluetooth transmission A bit more expensive than some picks There's a reason Sony's UBP-X800M2 is such a popular Blu-ray player. This player offers just about everything you could want, including gorgeous 4K resolution, high-end audio decoding that includes both Dolby Atmos and DTS:X, and both HDR10 and Dolby Vision to bring the very best performance out of every disc in your collection.
While you'll pay a bit more for the UBP-X800M2 than for the UBP-X700M listed above, you'll definitely get your money's worth. That's because it offers the company's DSEE HX audio processing, which will make everything from MP3 to FLAC files sound absolutely astonishing, including the leading hi-res audio formats.
 So if your disc collection is as big on audio as video, this is likely the option for you.
Speaking of audio, the UBP-X800M2 has another trick up its sleeve that the UBP-X700M can't match: It can transmit audio simultaneously over Bluetooth to a wireless speaker or a set of headphones. It can do this in perfect sync with the audio being sent over HDMI, so there's no jarring lag-time, and if you own a Sony Bluetooth speaker or headphones equipped with Sony's proprietary LDAC audio codec, the quality of that stream will be up to three times higher than normal Bluetooth.
Whether you use the UBP-X800M2's feature to amplify the power of your favorite movies or simply use it for a wireless audiophile-grade connection, it's a big advantage for audio enthusiasts.
More The best projectors for 2023: from 4K to ultra short throw Best cheap headphones and earbuds 2023: Jabra, 1More, and others Save $800 on this 85-inch Sony TV in Best Buy’s early Black Friday sale Image used with permission by copyright holder Panasonic UB820 The best Blu-ray player for HDR Beautiful HDR picture Fantastic 4K upscaling Compatible with Alexa and Google Assistant Separate HDMI and analog audio outputs Expensive No SACD support Panasonic may not be producing TVs for the U.S. market these days, but what the company lacks in North American screens, it more than makes up for with some of the best high-end Blu-ray players on the market.
For those of us looking to experience the best of modern HDR picture standards, the Panasonic UB820 is outfitted to support all the leading HDR formats, including HDR10, HDR10+, Dolby Vision, and HLG. When pairing this 4K Blu-ray player with a UHD TV, HDR visuals are simply beautiful. Expect vibrant imagery, with plenty of color brightness and incredible richness and depth, too.
The UB820 also supports hi-res audio playback, and features a dedicated HDMI output for audio, along with analog audio outputs for up to a 7.1 surround-sound system.
It may not be the cheapest Blu-ray player on the market, but after factoring in all its amazing picture perks, compatibility with Alexa and Google Assistant, and built-in streaming apps like Netflix and Amazon Prime Video , it becomes clear why the Panasonic UB820 is one of the best players you can buy.
More Xbox / Microsoft Microsoft Xbox Series X The most fun Blu-ray player Very gaming-friendly 4K and HDR support Plenty of on-board storage May be more than some are willing to pay If you want a great Blu-ray player and you’re also into video games (especially with a subscription, such as Game Pass), the Xbox Series X is an excellent entertainment hub. An attractive gaming console with sleek looks, this version of the Xbox includes the latest and greatest 4K UHD Blu-ray technology.
Like most high-end Blu-ray players on the market, the console features three USB 3.1 ports, one Ethernet port, and one HDMI 2.1 port. A one-stop solution for everything from gaming to high-end AV viewing, the Xbox Series X offers 4K streaming and a beautiful picture, with HDR10 support that provides impressive contrast.
It's worth noting, however, that while Microsoft added support for Dolby Vision on the Xbox Series X/S for use with streaming media like Netflix and Hulu and playing games, it still hasn't added support for playback via Blu-ray. Microsoft could remedy this with a future update, but only time will tell. In the meantime, while you will definitely get some better picture and codec support from a stand-alone Blu-ray player, if you're a gamer and don't want to spend the extra money on an additional device, the Xbox Series X plays Blu-ray discs beautifully with great picture and sound.
Image used with permission by copyright holder LG BP175 The best Blu-ray player on a budget Excellent price Supports Blu-ray, DVD, and CD playback Has built-in streaming apps No Wi-Fi (Ethernet only) No 4K Blu-ray support No HDR support For all our budget-restricted readers, the LG BP175 is one of the best no-frills Blu-ray players on the market, especially if you don't mind the fact that you won't be getting any kind of 4K playback. But for 1080p HD only (and don't forget regular HD upscaling for all your old DVDs), the BP175 is the player for the job.
In terms of features, there's not too much to write home about with this model. Audio-wise, the BP175 does handle regular music CDs, in addition to popular audio formats including WMA, MP3, and MP4, all of which can be loaded up to the player's interface using a USB thumb-drive.
You'll also be able to enjoy streaming content from the likes of Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video , and a few more platforms, but you'll want to make sure the player is located near your router because the BP175 cannot connect to Wi-Fi (you'll have to wire it directly to your router using the built-in Ethernet port).
If money is tight and you want a Blu-ray player without a bunch of add-ons, the LG BP175 is a great choice all around.
Frequently Asked Questions If you like physical media, yes. Blu-ray isn't going to be replaced by anything any time soon. If you prefer digital downloads, you don't really need a traditional player.
Not on a technical level. Digital downloads and streaming have simply become so popular that Blu-ray players aren't necessary anymore, and in some home theaters, they have a very low priority. But those who like physical media can still easily find or use them, and common consoles like the Series X/PS5 still play them.
Yes, this shouldn't be a problem. Blu-ray players are generally backward-compatible with DVDs.
If your game console has a disc slot, then it almost certainly supports Blu-ray. But be careful — not all consoles have disc support these days. The Xbox Series S, for example, does not have a disc drive and relies entirely on downloads and streaming.
Editors' Recommendations Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Best Black Friday soundbar deals: Save on Samsung, Bose, and more Best earbuds for making phone calls for 2023 The best OLED TV of 2023 is $700 off: 77-inch LG C3 OLED The best kids headphones of 2023: for fun, safety, and more Best Products Audio / Video If you want the absolute best for your home theater setup, you should check out the OLED TV deals that are available within your budget. For those willing to splurge, check out the 65-inch Sony Bravia XR A80L OLED 4K TV, which is on sale from Best Buy at $600 off to pull its price down to $1,700 from $2,300. The discount still doesn't make it cheap, but you'll quickly understand why it's worth it once the OLED TV is in your living room. As one of the retailer's early Black Friday deals, we're not sure if it will still be available for the shopping holiday, so if you're interested, it's highly recommended that you make the purchase now.
Why you should buy the 65-inch Sony Bravia XR A80L OLED 4K TV This version of the Sony Bravia XR A80L OLED 4K TV features a 65-inch screen, which is a great size for watching sports programs, catching up on streaming shows, binging on movies, and playing video games. The 4K Ultra HD resolution and Sony's Cognitive Processor XR promise lifelike details and vivid colors, and while it's not the largest display out there, you should still check out our guide on what size TV to buy to make sure that you have enough space for this OLED TV.
Audio / Video While you're searching for some excellent TV deals, you might want to consider looking at some of the best projector deals, too. Projectors allow you to expand the size of the display in excess of 100 inches in some cases. It's your opportunity to create a true home theater setup that rivals even the biggest and most advanced theaters out there. One such deal features the Epson EpiqVision Flex full HD smart Android TV projector for $130 off at Best Buy. That's right, it's normally $630, but you can get it today for just $500. It's a 3,000 Lumens ultra-bright HD projector that delivers a picture four times the size of a 75-inch flat panel. Hurry, though. The deal won't last long.
Why you should buy the Epson EpiqVision Flex CO-FH02 smart home theater projector With most home theater projectors, you have to connect a streaming device to the unit to even begin streaming content. That's not the case with Epson's EpiqVision home theater projector, which has the Android TV smart streaming platform built-in. It also supports Chromecast so that you can cast content from your mobile devices right to the system. If you need a little help choosing between this Epson or another, our guide on choosing the right home theater projector can certainly help.
Audio / Video Here's one of the most attractive TV deals that we've come across recently -- the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV for a very affordable price of $520, following a $280 discount from Best Buy on its original price of $800. With an average rating of 4.6 stars out of 5 stars after more than 1,000 reviews, you can be sure that you won't regret buying this 4K TV, especially for much cheaper than usual. You'll need to hurry though, because we're not sure how much time remains before stocks run out.
Why you should buy the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV You'll have to consult our guide on what size TV to buy if you have enough space for this gigantic display, but once you confirm that you do, there's no reason not to go for the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV if you can afford it. With such a large screen, you'll feel like you're watching movies in the theater, especially with the sharp details and bright colors provided by 4K Ultra HD resolution and High Dynamic Range in the form of Dolby Vision and HDR 10.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
