Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best HDMI switchers for 2023 to make the most of your TV’s inputs By Michael Bizzaco Close Most modern TVs are equipped with at least two HDMI inputs, and many offer up to four of these must-have AV connections. But in the event that your TV or entertainment system runs out of inputs for whatever gaming system or additional components you buy, you can always add an HDMI switcher to quickly solve your “need more ports” problem.
The best HDMI switchers feature four or more HDMI connections, with ports powered by the latest HD chipsets to bring you the best picture and sound quality you can get. They plug directly into one of the many HDMI inputs your TV already has and tout awesome features like automatic input-switching, 4K, 8K and 3D support, as well as remote control operation. If you're in need of a great HDMI switcher, we've compiled this roundup of the best models on the market right now.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Kinivo 550BN 4K/60Hz HDMI Switch Best overall HDMI switcher Compact, unobtrusive design Lithium battery powered HDR and Dolby Vision support Auto input switching Expensive Auto switching can be finicky Kinivo's line of HDMI switchers has some of the most popular on the market, and for good reason. Measuring 4.6 inches long and 2.5 inches tall, it's a breeze to sneak the 550BN in with your existing AV components without creating wire clutter. Best of all, there's no need to factor in where to run a power cable, as the switcher itself runs off a lithium-ion battery (included). Part of Kinivo's Pro Series, the 550BN features five HDMI inputs, each rated for 4K/60Hz with a data throughput of 18Gbps. Optimized for premium UHD pass-through, the 550BN supports HDR and Dolby Vision picture codecs, as well as Dolby Atmos, making it ideal for top-tier 4K Blu-ray players , UHD-capable gaming systems , and just about any other HD component you can throw at it.
Input switching is either automatic or manual. For auto-switching, performance is based on the connected hardware. Say you want to fire up your Xbox Series X. Once you power the system, the 550BN will automatically switch to the HDMI input your system is connected to. If you prefer manual switching, you can disable auto-sensing and change inputs with the included remote. Some users have reported the switcher being a bit finicky with certain components, although the vast majority report no issues whatsoever. While it's one of the more expensive switchers on our list, you'll be hard-pressed to beat the Kinivo's reliability and audio/video codec support.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Kinivo 501BN 4K/30Hz HDMI Switch Best affordable HDMI switcher Well-priced, high-quality switcher Automatic input switching Remote included Slightly slower data throughput than its premium sibling No Dolby Vision or HDR support If you want a 4K switcher that gets the job done, that's high-quality, and doesn't break the bank, the Kinivo 501BN is your guy.
Featuring the same number of HDMI inputs as its older brother, the aforementioned 550BN, the Kinivo 501BN is a little cheaper than the company's flagship switcher. In terms of specs and performance, the difference here is the 501BN only supports 4K/30Hz at a slower data throughput of 10Gbps. There's also no onboard support for Dolby Vision or HDR.
Like the 550BN, input switching is either automatic (based on connected hardware) or manual through the switcher's IR remote. For only $10 less than the 550BN, you'll net yourself improved codec support, faster throughput, and future-proofed HDMI inputs if you opt for the flagship tier. But for those shopping on a strict budget or home theater owners with older HD hardware, the Kinivo 501BN may be all you need.
Mrocioa 5-in-1 HDMI Switcher Best for future-proofing Delivers 4K/120Hz and 8K/60Hz Works with Dolby Atmos Includes HDMI ARC Five HDMI inputs Not the best remote Handshake issues with certain components The Mrocioa 5-in-1 HDMI Switcher is ideal if you need an HDMI switcher that can handle your PS5’s best picture and sound settings, and you want to be future-proofed for the 8K TV you buy in two years.
Next-gen game consoles like the PS5 and Xbox Series X/S, along with flagship 4K Blu-ray players , are the kind of AV peripherals you don’t want to mess around with in terms of ports and cables. In the event that your amazing entertainment system is short on HDMI inputs, you’ll want to set your sights on the Mrocioa 5-in-1 HDMI Switcher. For around $90, it’s one of the more expensive HDMI switchers on our list, but it has performance metrics that are pretty hard to beat.
Each of the five HDMI input is not only rated to deliver 4K at up to 120Hz, but you’ll also be able to push through 8K at 60Hz. The entire switch box is built to handle Dolby Atmos sound-processing, and the first input is ARC-ready , too. On top of NVIDIA G-Sync, AMD FreeSync and VRR support, you’ll also be able to control the Mrocioa with the included remote or iOS app. While some users have reported occasional glitches with the device (when trying to integrate older gaming systems), in most cases, a quick reset seems to put things in order.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Roofull Premium HDMI Switch Best for audio compatibility Dolby Vision, HDCP, Dolby Atmos, and DTS:X support Backward compatible Affordable Requires a power connection Remote design is clunky This five-port HDMI switcher by Roofull is HDMI 2.0 compliant with backward compatibility for all older HDMI protocols. While 2.0 is still one of the most common standards, there's a chance you may need to replace the switcher if you plan on re-outfitting your AV rack with HDMI 2.1 components.
 With that in mind, the Roofull's five inputs are each rated for 4K/60Hz with a throughput of 18Gbps. Component switching is handled by auto-sensing or manual operation (remote or Switch button on the unit).
Featuring onboard support for Dolby Vision, HDCP, as well as Dolby Atmos, DTS:X, and most other Dolby and DTS audio codecs, the Roofull's performance and compatibility more than match its $40 price tag. The only drawback we can think of is the unit does require a physical power connection, so consider that if your home theater room is running out of electrical outlets. If that's big trouble, you could also consider one of these surge protectors.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Gana 3x1 HDMI Switch Best budget HDMI switcher No-nonsense, well-built switcher HDMI cable built-in No power cable needed Date throughput is lacking Manual switching and no remote You should buy the Gana 3x1 HDMI Switch if you're short on ports and don't want to drop the dough on a top-tier switcher. Maybe you only need to add one or two additional HDMI inputs to your home theater. For around $14, you can grab yourself this three-to-one switcher by Gana. The three inputs each support 4K/30Hz with a lesser data throughput of only 3Gbps. Unlike the other switchers in our roundup, the Gana features a built-in HDMI 1.8 output connection, meaning you won't need to supply your own HDMI cable to connect it to your TV or projection system. There's also no required power cable, as the switcher itself is powered by the components you have connected to it.
For the money, this is one of the best inexpensive switchers on the market, but there are a few drawbacks. For starters, there's no remote control. This means you'll need to manually press the Select button on the top of the unit every time you want to switch inputs. The switcher does feature auto-switching, but some users have reported infrequent reliability with this function. Also, if you're trying to keep your gear hidden, there's little chance of a clean look with the Gana, as the switcher's HDMI pigtail isn't very long. If you don't mind these minor inconveniences, there's no reason to stray from the Gana.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Zettaguard 4x1 HDMI Switch Best with picture-in-picture support PIP feature lets you view multiple sources at once Compact design Includes remote Sound throughput is not great No 4K support This Zettaguard switcher features four HDMI inputs, with each port capable of 4K/30Hz. One of the more minimalist switchers on our list, it's easy to tuck this guy away in a media cabinet or wherever you choose to house your AV components. While not capable of some of the stronger data throughputs and picture/audio codecs that the other switchers in this roundup can handle, the Zettaguard edges forward with one winning feature — picture-in-picture (PIP) displays.
The switcher is capable of displaying up to two sub-screens for your HD components, in addition to one main HD image that will take up most of the screen. Cycling between sub-screens and the main image is quick and easy with the included IR remote. While we may not suggest it for those looking to get the very best sound out of a picture outputted from an HDMI switcher, it's a great device for experiencing more than one HD source at once.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder MTVIKI 8 Port Rack Mount HDMI Switcher Best for more than six HDMI devices Eight HDMI inputs Tailor-made for A/V rack systems Multiple control methods No 120Hz or 8K support Some handshake issues If you have an awesome home theater system and a ton of HDMI peripherals to go with it, you probably need a solid HDMI switcher for multiple components and inputs. Whether that’s for seven Wii U systems, six Blu-ray players, or eight cable boxes is your business; but whatever the reason for all these connections, look to the MT-VIKI 8 Port Rack Mount for all your switching needs. Designed to be seated inside an AV rack system, the MT-VIKI’s eight HDMI ports are all rated to deliver 4K at up to 60Hz. You also have the option of switching inputs using the included remote, or by pressing one of the eight buttons on the front of the unit.
There’s also an RS232 switch if you’re planning on incorporating the MT-VIKI into your automated home theater system. Depending on what components you’re using, you may have a handshaking hiccup or two (one user reported some trouble with a Fire TV Cube), but reviews for this device are generally positive.
Image used with permission by copyright holder j5create USB-C to 4 Port HDMI Switcher Best for desktops Easy plug and play operation Multiple display modes Space-saving design Doesn't support 4K A little expensive The j5create isn’t going to take up much space on your desk, and it’s going to let you output a full HD signal to up to four different monitors to help with your daily workflow. Don’t think we were going to leave our Mac and PC devotees in the dust with this HDMI switcher roundup. For those of us in need of a reliable multi-port display hub for multiple HD monitors, the j5create USB-C to 4 Port HDMI Switcher is the tech for the job. With its quick plug-and-play operation, just connect the USB-C to your computer and wire those HDMI cables to whatever screens you’re adding to your workstation. Each of the four HDMI ports are capable of sending out 1080p at up to 60Hz, and you’ll be able to choose from four different display modes, including primary, extended, mirror and rotation (driver installation is required).
Considering this isn’t a full 4K switcher, it may not be the best option for PC gamers. But if you’re trying to add some extra workflow real-estate for all things spreadsheets and word docs, the j5create is a great choice.
More Editors' Recommendations Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today The best OLED TV of 2023 is $700 off: 77-inch LG C3 OLED Don’t miss this deal: Best Buy has a 75-inch 4K TV for $520 Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 Best Products Audio / Video We're coming up on the holiday shopping season, which means some really fantastic deals on big-screen TVs, making them as affordable as ever. Particularly when you consider that even the best TVs are regular candidates for a discount. 70-inch TVs make a good size for watching sports, and since most TVs nowadays are smart TVs, they’re also a good option if you’re interested in the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max, and more. There are a lot of intriguing 70-inch TV deals taking place right now, and we’ve rounded up the best available. These TVs include brands like LG and Samsung, and they’re ready to take center stage in your home theater.
Insignia 70-inch F30 Series LED 4K TV — $450, was $600 Whether upgrading your home theater or building one from scratch, the Insignia F30 4K TV has everything on the stat sheet. It presents all of your favorite content in breathtaking 4K resolution, and HDR technology provides a wide range of color details and sharper contrast, making movies more immersive and things like sports more impactful. Versatile connectivity ports make it easy to connect home theater peripherals. This TV also offers smart features like Alexa voice control, DTS Studio Sound, and Apple AirPlay. The Insignia 70-inch F30 4K TV is also a Fire TV, which gets you instant access to over 500,000 streaming movies and TV episodes, and access to thousands of channels and apps, including Netflix, Apple TV+, Disney+, Hulu, Prime Video, and more.
Audio / Video Upgrade your home theater setup by buying from QLED TV deals, which will give you incredible brightness and accurate colors with the help of a layer of quantum dots. If you're interested in buying a QLED TV, the good news is that there are discounts that you can shop right now, but only if you hurry. We've listed our top picks here to help you make a decision, but because of the popularity of QLED TVs, we don't think stocks will last long. If you see an offer from these TV deals that you like, you better push through with the purchase immediately.
TCL 50-inch Q5 4K QLED TV -- $250, was $400 You don't need to spend several hundreds of dollars to get a QLED TV in your living room because there are affordable options like the 50-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. With 4K Ultra HD resolution and support for all the most advanced HDR formats, you'll enjoy sharp details and lifelike colors, and it runs on Google TV to access all of the popular streaming services. The platform also offers Chromecast so you can stream from your mobile devices onto the 50-inch screen, and it enables compatibility with Google Assistant and Amazon's Alexa.
Audio / Video Samsung is almost universally amongst the best TV brands, which makes its lineup of 4K TVs a good option if you’re looking to expand, upgrade, or start from scratch a home theater setup. A new Samsung 4K TV actually makes a great way to save as well, as there are a lot of Samsung TV deals taking place right now. We’ve tracked down the best available, so whether you’re comparing between QLED and OLED TVs or want to ensure you get something that compares with the best TVs, read onward, as there’s likely a deal available for you.
Samsung 50-inch Q60C QLED 4K TV — $580, was $600 As owners of any one of the best QLED TVs can attest, QLED technology produces one of the best 4K images available on the market right now. It utilizes dual LEDs and Quantum Dot color to create lifelike images, and an overall immersive home theater experience. This Samsung 50-inch QLED 4K TV comes in at a good size for just about any room, as it’s not too big and not too small. It’s able to upscale older content into the modern clarity of 4K resolution, and picture quality is heightened with Quantum HDR technology. Smart TV capabilities include compatibility with voice assistants, object tracking for 3D surround sound, and easy access to built-in streaming services.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
