Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best October Prime Day soundbar deals available now By Albert Bassili Close With Prime Day deals a thing all over again thanks to the Amazon Prime Big Deal Days event kicking off shortly, we’ve rounded up all the early Prime Day soundbar deals going on right now. Getting ahead of the crowd is a smart move for anyone looking to improve their audio experience while also saving money.
Today’s best Prime Day soundbar deals How we selected these Prime Day soundbar deals The Prime Day soundbar deals going on right now include some of the best soundbars and some big-name brands like Bose and Samsung. They’re the ideal accompaniment to anyone already checking out the Prime Day TV deals going on, so you can transform your home cinema setup for less. Below, we’ve picked out all the best soundbar deals this Prime Day event. Take a look to see how you could save.
Today’s best Prime Day soundbar deals Insignia 2.0-Channel Mini Soundbar — $45, was $80 Insignia For a cheap soundbar that still gets the job done, go for the Insignia 2.0-channel Mini Soundbar. You’ll have your choice between three different sound modes — theater, news, and standard — and you can also stream music to it from a mobile device through a Bluetooth connection. The soundbar’s compact design also means that you can make it fit into tight spaces.
VIZIO V-Series 2.1-Channel Soundbar — $140, was $160 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The VIZIO V-Series 2.1-channel soundbar is still very affordable, but with its sleek design and the addition of a wireless subwoofer for deep and accurate bass, it may be your TV’s new best friend. The soundbar supports DTS Virtual: X for room-filling sound, HDMI ARC for a higher-quality connection, and support for voice commands through devices powered by Amazon’s Alexa , Apple’s Siri , or Google Assistant.
LG SN4A 2.1-Channel Soundbar — $150, was $200 LG The LG SN4A 2.1 -channel soundbar also comes with a wireless subwoofer, but with a carbon diaphragm that ensures excellent sound clarity. The soundbar also features LG’s Adaptive Sound Control to automatically make adjustments depending on whether you’re listening to music or watching movies. It also supports DTS Virtual: X and Bluetooth connection.
VIZIO V-Series 5.1-Channel Soundbar — $200, was $250 Vizio The VIZIO V-Series soundbar introduces center and rear speakers to the mix to give an even more expansive soundscape. It connects wirelessly with its subwoofer as well as to your phone or other Bluetooth device. One nice feature of this subwoofer system is its ability to be controlled via voice input, using Alexa, Siri, or Google Assistant. Though, if you do want to use its remote, you can do so easily even when the room is darkened for that horror movie feel — its fully backlit.
Samsung HW-B550 2.1-Channel Soundbar — $230, was $280 Samsung The Samsung HW-B550 2.1-channel soundbar supports Dolby Audio to create 3D sound, and DTS Virtual: X for an expanded listening experience. The included wireless subwoofer enables rich and powerful bass, but you also have the option of activating Bass Boost for an extra punch. You can also use Game Mode for more realistic in-game sounds by plugging in your console to the soundbar.
Samsung HW-B650 3.1-Channel Soundbar — $300, was $400 Samsung The Samsung HW-B650 3.1-channel soundbar adds center speaker to the usual left and right channels, which is dedicated to improving the clarity of dialogue so that you wouldn’t miss anything that anybody is saying in the shows that you’re watching. The soundbar keeps all of the features of its 2.1-channel version, including Bass Boost and Game Mode.
Vizio M-Series Elevate 5.1.2-Channel Soundbar — $600, was $800 Riley Young/Digital Trends / Digital Trends With five channels, a wireless subwoofer, and two dedicated drivers that fire up to the ceiling for surround sound, the Vizio M-Series Elevate 5.1.2-channel soundbar definitely has what it takes to bring your home theater setup to the next level. The soundbar also supports Dolby Atmos and DTS Virtual: X, as well as HDMI eARC so that you’ll only need one cable to get everything working.
Samsung Q-Series 5.1.2-Channel Soundbar — $680, was $800 Samsung Designed to work with Samsung TVs but also compatible with other brands, the Samsung Q Series 5.1.2-channel soundbar offers SpaceFit Sound Pro to fill your room with audio, and Adaptive Sound for automatic optimizations. The soundbar also works with all of the most popular voice assistants, and it can connect to other devices through Apple’s AirPlay 2 or Google’s Chromecast.
Bose Smart Soundbar 900 — $750, was $900 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Bose Smart Soundbar 900 is an update to the Bose Smart Soundbar 700 that adds Dolby Atmos support to a package that includes six full-range transducers, a center tweeter, ADAPTiQ technology that adjusts the system’s sound to cater to your room, and support for digital assistants. The soundbar connects through an HDMI eARC connection, but you can also use Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Apple’s AirPlay 2, Google’s Chromecast, or Spotify Connect to use it.
Samsung Q-Series 11.1.4-Channel Soundbar — $1,600, was $1,900 Samsung Enjoy the complete cinematic experience at home with the 11 front-facing speakers, wireless subwoofer, and four up-firing channels of the Samsung Q-Series 11.1.4-channel soundbar.
 Samsung’s Q-Symphony technology will make your Samsung TV work as one with this soundbar, which comes with built-in voice assistants for hands-free access to its features and settings.
Sennheiser Ambeo Max 5.1.4-Channel Soundbar — $2,000, was $2,500 Sennheiser The Sennheiser Ambeo Max 5.1.4-channel soundbar comes with 13 high-end drivers that produce powerful sound, and it delivers 3D surround sound that’s adjusted according to the characteristics of your living room. You’ll be able to further customize your audio with the soundbar’s built-in equalizer and three bespoke AMBEO 3D technology modes.
How we selected these Prime Day soundbar deals All year round, we look out for the best soundbar deals. That means we know the market well. We hand-pick the deals we feature making sure that they’re good value, offer the features you want for the price, and are worth your time and money. That trend continues when it comes to Prime Day soundbar deals with us also having the benefit of knowledge of the market so we know what’s a good deal.
Besides extensive price monitoring, we also know all about the best soundbars so we know what to expect for every price range. If you’re looking for something premium, we’re also experts in spotting the best Dolby Atmos soundbars so you get true bang for your buck.
The range of Prime Day soundbar deals we’ve featured covers a number of different price points. In all cases, you can be confident that whatever you pay, you’re getting the best for the price. That means a $100 soundbar is the best you’ll be able to buy for $100 while a $1,000 behemoth is the best for the price too. You can be confident we know what we’re talking about.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now The best early Black Friday headphone and earbud deals now Best Black Friday soundbar deals: Save on Samsung, Bose, and more Sennheiser Black Friday deals: Save on soundbars and headphones Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Soundbars Audio / Video Deals come and go. We know that, you know that, and it's really become a way of life these days. But some of the best deals always go live around the holiday shopping season, like Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Retailers have started early this year, with Walmart at the forefront. In fact, the superstore is doing things a little differently this time around. Everyone will be able to shop Walmart's Black Friday Early Access deals starting November 8, but there's a catch. You need to subscribe to Walmart+, the brand's Prime-like service, which you.
 Regardless, when you do, you can grab this amazing TCL Alto bundle with a soundbar and wireless subwoofer for just $49. It's normally $150, so you're saving an incredible $100 on this early Black Friday deal.
Web Even though Black Friday is still a couple of weeks away, we're already starting to see a lot of great deals on several different types of products. So, if you can't wait for the upcoming Black Friday and need to grab a few things now, we've collected some of our favorite deals across products and budget ranges to make your life a little bit easier. Below, you'll find deals on cordless vacuums, laptops, TVs, headphones, and phones, so it's a great collection of stuff that we think you'll find useful and want to grab. That said, if you can't find what you want, be sure to check our main Black Friday deals page for even more great offers.
Wyze Cordless Stick Vacuum -- $98, was $150 While budget cordless vacuum cleaners can sometimes not be that great, we found the Wyze Cordless Stick Vacuum to be surprisingly good for its price point. At just 2.8 pounds of weight, it's light enough that you won't feel like you're doing a workout every time you use it, and it is great for those who might have issues with arm weakness. Just because it's light doesn't mean it's not powerful, though, with two motors providing 24,000 pascals of suction, which is quite a lot at this price. It also has a HEPA filter to keep the air you breathe clean while vacuuming, which is impressive, but sadly, it does have a big downside in that it only lasts for about 50 minutes of vacuuming. That's not necessarily a dealbreaker, and you can buy a backup battery, but it's an important thing to note.
Audio / Video We're coming up on the holiday shopping season, which means some really fantastic deals on big-screen TVs, making them as affordable as ever. Particularly when you consider that even the best TVs are regular candidates for a discount. 70-inch TVs make a good size for watching sports, and since most TVs nowadays are smart TVs, they’re also a good option if you’re interested in the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max, and more. There are a lot of intriguing 70-inch TV deals taking place right now, and we’ve rounded up the best available. These TVs include brands like LG and Samsung, and they’re ready to take center stage in your home theater.
Insignia 70-inch F30 Series LED 4K TV — $450, was $600 Whether upgrading your home theater or building one from scratch, the Insignia F30 4K TV has everything on the stat sheet. It presents all of your favorite content in breathtaking 4K resolution, and HDR technology provides a wide range of color details and sharper contrast, making movies more immersive and things like sports more impactful. Versatile connectivity ports make it easy to connect home theater peripherals. This TV also offers smart features like Alexa voice control, DTS Studio Sound, and Apple AirPlay. The Insignia 70-inch F30 4K TV is also a Fire TV, which gets you instant access to over 500,000 streaming movies and TV episodes, and access to thousands of channels and apps, including Netflix, Apple TV+, Disney+, Hulu, Prime Video, and more.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
