Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best subwoofers for 2023: from SVS, Klipsch, KEF, and more By Michael Bizzaco and Derek Malcolm Close There’s nothing better than the satisfying rumble and punchy performance of a well-chosen subwoofer that is set up properly.
 There’s also nothing worse than the muddy undertones and overdriven nature of a sub that doesn’t quite cut the mustard (but may have been easy on the wallet).
When it comes to home theater sound, a subwoofer is like the unifying force that bolsters the performance of your system’s main speakers by dealing with a majority of the low-end heft on its own. Plus, there’s no way you’re going to get the kind of guttural tones a sub is capable of from a traditional floor-standing or bookshelf speaker.
 But, like any other speaker purchase, facing down the hundreds of woofer options can be even more confusing than buying any other part of your new surround sound system, which is why we decided to put together this roundup in the first place.
We want your virtual soundstage to sound great at every level, and the audible underbelly is just as important as the ear-level frequencies. And while the fantastic SVS SB16-Ultra is our favorite, we've also collected a list of alternatives ranging from the budget $130 range to the higher-end $2,000-plus mark, each with its own specific strengths, ranging from auto-equalization to saving on space without giving up the bass. Let's get bumpin'.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Bill Roberson/Digital Trends SVS SB16 Ultra The best overall subwoofer Gorgeous design Incredibly deep, powerful bass Smooth and articulate Does the work of two subs First-class control app Could be large for some rooms The SVS SB-16 Ultra has been on our list for some time, mainly because we haven't found anything worthy to take its place. This subwoofer has become our measuring stick, which might actually be unfair to the competition — it's that good. Beneath a sleek, stylish subwoofer box, the cubic SVS SB16 houses a monstrous 16-inch Ultra driver with an 8-inch, edge-wound voice coil and a ridiculous 1,500-watt continuous Sledge amplifier with discrete MOSFET output that tops out at 5,000 watts peak power.
Additionally, a smartphone app for iOS and Android has upped the SB16 Ultra's game significantly, taking the pain out of setting up your sub by allowing you to fine-tune the speaker from your optimal listening position and create custom presets for different listening situations.
All of this is to say: No matter how you're using the SB16, it impresses. Gunshots and explosions in films register with a hefty thump to the chest, and the sub manages low-end instrumentation beautifully, allowing acoustic bass to bounce smoothly while electronic bass and kick drums shake the foundation of your home. For our money, this is the best subwoofer you can buy, period.
Honorable mention goes to the HSU ULS-15 MK 2 and the Monoprice Monolith range of subwoofers , two of the best-sounding $1,000-plus subwoofers we've checked out recently.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Monoprice 150-Watt Powered Subwoofer The best subwoofer on a budget Delivers 150 watts (200-watt peak) Multiple connection options Excellent price Lacks the features of more advanced subs Monoprice has quickly risen through the ranks of AV stardom, outputting top-notch hardware that looks awesome, sounds great, and is priced competitively. And if you're looking for some rumble but don't want the tumble of big-budget prices, look no further than the mighty Monoprice 150-Watt Powered Subwoofer.
Rocking a 12-inch, front-firing driver that peaks at 200 watts, the sub comes with all the standard fare we'd expect from pretty much any reasonable woofer, including gain and frequency adjustments in addition to standard RCA connections and line-level inputs and outputs.
It may not be the fanciest sub on our list, but if you're in need of an awesome-sounding peripheral that won't drain your funds, going Monoprice is always a solid and safe idea.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Klipsch Reference Series 12 (R-121SW) The best subwoofer for the style conscious A sleek and stylish aesthetic Powerful digital amplifier Revamped cone design means little distortion A bit pricey Klipsch-style drivers may not be for everyone Klipsch is constantly reinventing its own wheel, and when you consider the fact that there aren't many problems to address in the first place, it only goes to show just how much the brand cares about looks and performance. Thus, we arrive at the Klipsch Reference Series 12 R-121SW.
We love the fact that Klipsch went back to the drawing board to create an all-new woofer design. The sub's front-firing 12-inch cone is composed of what the company calls thermoform crystalline polymer, delivering a resounding low-end experience with minimal distortion, and with a much lighter chassis. There's also the onboard digital amplifier, the heart and lungs of the 121SW, supplying up to 400 watts of unequaled power with pinpoint accuracy.
If you're looking for a rock-solid woofer from a name that ensures reliability, the Klipsch Reference Series 12 R-121SW is certainly the way to go.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Monoprice SSW-12 Powered Slim Subwoofer The best hideaway subwoofer A subwoofer you can hide under the couch 150 watts of pulse-pounding sound Multiple inputs and outputs Reasonable price Lacks more advanced features Wider profile may not be ideal for some The ideal home theater has room for every speaker and component imaginable, but fantasy AV doesn't always align with smaller floor plans and apartment dwellings. And for those of us who want to add a subwoofer to our home theaters, sometimes going big is simply not an option. Thankfully, Monoprice is here to save the day with its SSW-12 Slim Subwoofer, a terrific-sounding sub you can scoot under the couch.
Capable of outputting 150 watts from its down-firing 12-inch driver, the enclosure's ported design helps to maximize low-end frequencies without causing unnecessary vibrations throughout the slim chassis. There are also plenty of hookups to get the SSW-12 wired up to your receiver, from RCA connections to line-level ins and outs.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder KEF KC62 Subwoofer The best small subwoofer Can deliver up to 1,000 watts Incredibly small footprint Excellent sound quality Plenty of EQ options Very expensive KEF is one of those speaker brands that is always coming up with new ways to blow our minds, and the KC62 Subwoofer (available in black and white finishes) is a jaw-dropping sub that's no bigger than a basketball. And the craziest part? This basketball can deliver up to 1,000 watts of smooth, thumping low-end. We're not kidding.
That's on top of two 6.5-inch Uni-Core force-canceling drivers, an assortment of EQ options to truly dial in the sound, and a cabinet tailor-made to reduce unwanted distortion and vibrations. Yes, it's more expensive than a majority of the woofers you'll find in this roundup, but KEF is simply one of the best brands money can buy, and just look at it, for Pete's sake.
How can something so small be so powerful? Thank KEF for that.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Polk Audio HTS 10 Subwoofer The dark horse subwoofer The Polk Audio HTS 10 is an unsung gem in the world of subwoofers, and we're glad to have unearthed it.
Utilizing Polk's impressive Dynamic Balance Technology, this 10-inch front-firing woofer is engineered to evenly distribute sound throughout your theater space. That's on top of Polk's distortion-reducing tech that ensures every last decibel is as articulate and profound as can be.
You'll also get adjustments for volume, low-pass filtering, and phase toggle — and, rest assured, wattage juggernauts. While the HTS 10 won't reach the peak heights of something like the KEF62, you can expect peak wattage to hit around 200, which is plenty of thud for most music, movies, and games.
Frequently Asked Questions They can be. Larger woofers can produce more accurate, room-filling bass with a bigger "shake" factor than smaller models. But that's only one consideration. A poorly constructed large subwoofer may rattle too much, for example, while smaller models with plenty of power can still do a great job.
It's a really, really good idea. Home theater systems are generally designed with a subwoofer in mind. So are the latest movie audio standards.
You can, although it isn't common in home setups. Just make sure that your receiver can handle two subwoofer connections. Some people prefer using two smaller woofers that they can strategically place in their theater to get the best multi-directional bass.
The terms are frequently used interchangeably. Traditionally, a "woofer" can refer to a driver that has a higher frequency response than a subwoofer, less dedicated to pure bass sound, and more likely to be part of a speaker than a standalone unit.
We run the subwoofer for several hours before beginning any critical evaluation. While there is much debate over whether the "break-in effect" is real, we prefer to get that factor covered so it doesn't play a role in our evaluation one way or another.
Our subwoofer tests take place in at least two different rooms, any of which we are intimately familiar with, and we generally test the subwoofer in three locations that we know offer the best possible response within those rooms. Testing material includes everything from test tone sweeps to blockbuster movies and a selection of music from multiple genres. We seek to learn how deep a sub can play, how visceral the low bass response is, how well it can be adjusted to integrate with both small and large satellite speakers, and how musically accurate it is capable of playing.
We hope for a versatile subwoofer, which can not only belt out the big bass notes needed for a high-impact action movie, but one which can also stay tight and tuneful when playing acoustic upright bass, or reproducing the classic Fender P-bass tone. A good subwoofer will avoid tubby, boomy sound that lacks definition, and instead integrate itself seamlessly into a larger audio system, calling attention to itself only during instances in which its pure muscle can't be ignored.
If you've already made your choice, check our subwoofer setup guide to get everything put together correctly and our calibration guide to help maximize performance in any listening space.
Editors' Recommendations The best projectors for 2023: from 4K to ultra short throw The best OLED TV of 2023 is $700 off: 77-inch LG C3 OLED Best gaming TVs of 2023 for Xbox Series X, PS5, and more Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Best headphones for 2023: Sony, Bose, Apple, and more Best Products Audio / Video Wires are so old school, especially when it comes to headphones. Unless you're an audiophile who must have the peak possible hi-res sound quality that, with a few exceptions, can only be achieved with a set of wired headphones, then getting yourself a pair of the best wireless headphones is an absolute must. Don't misunderstand us: wireless headphones sound fantastic, and they're packed with features such as active noise cancellation (ANC), transparency modes for hearing the outside world the way you want to, excellent call quality, Bluetooth multipoint connectivity and more.
We're always looking for the best wireless headphones, and we also take comfort, audio quality, and battery life seriously. For this roundup, we're focusing on wireless headphones of the over-ear variety. For the best wireless earbuds, we've got a roundup of those, too.
Audio / Video Buying a new TV can be quite an ordeal. There’s figuring out what size is best for your living space, then there’s choosing what picture tech you should go with, then there’s the overall price, and then there’s all the bells and whistles you need to think about, like which smart TV platform to trust and what TVs will let you cast photos and videos from your phone or tablet. Yeah, you’ve definitely got your work cut out for you, but it’s actually a good thing to have all these options. Of course, it doesn’t hurt to have a little guidance, too.
We’ve already covered what the best TVs are, but if you’d like some bigger-picture TV intel that you can carry around with you, we thought it best to put together this guide to the best TV brands. While this isn’t an end-all-be-all resource, we’ve definitely vetted and tested enough TVs to know what brands are worth considering, as well as which are best to avoid. We’ve also made sure to highlight the calling card features and specifications of these noteworthy names.
Audio / Video Google TV has been around for a minute, and because the platform isn’t exclusive to one TV brand, this means you’ll have plenty of options. Google TV also works similarly and consistently from one TV brand to the next, with features like recommended content, Chromecast, and Google Assistant being mainstays. Where models do tend to differ though is with elements such as picture quality, motion capabilities, and overall performance. Not to worry, though: We’re here to help you dive through the haystack! All the TVs on our list are backboned by Google TV, and there's a reason people love it. The stable and robust OS connects you to all your favorite TV shows and movies through streaming services from Netflix and Hulu to Disney+ and Amazon Prime Video. Google TV also pays attention to your viewing habits, and will curate a home screen packed with content that aligns with the kinds of genres you love most. Let's get started.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
