Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best universal remotes for 2023 By Michael Bizzaco and Simon Cohen Close For the average TV watcher, one remote is usually all you’ll need to control your AV system. That’s because a majority of households are still rocking cable boxes, and that set-top remote is typically capable of controlling the power and volume of a TV , soundbar , and sometimes even an AV receiver.
 Furthermore, certain streaming devices (Roku comes to mind) come with remotes that can have an additional component or two programmed into them. But sometimes that’s just not enough.
If you’re the owner of a monstrous home theater system with every AV component known to man, you might need a top-notch universal remote to control all of your equipment. In years past, Logitech's Harmony line was the go-to name for multi-device remotes, but it’s been a minute since the company shuttered the popular universal controllers.
 If you can find one, however, the company still supports them. That being said, there are still a number of reputable options out there, and we’ve rounded up some of our favorites in the list below.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More SofaBaton U2 The best overall Controls up to 15 different components Ergonomic button layout Includes SofaBaton app for iOS and Android Relatively inexpensive No Wi-Fi controls Not as advanced as the SofaBaton X1 Now that we live in a world without Logitech’s much-lauded Harmony remotes (unless you’re able to find a refurbished or used model), SofaBaton is the next best thing when it comes to universal remotes. With a few different options available, the all-new SofaBaton U2 builds upon the excellent tech of its U1 model, the biggest change is the inclusion of multiple IR receivers. This allows the U2 to control your line-of-sight components from much farther distances. That being said, you’ll still need an IR extender if you plan on hiding gear in another room or behind closed doors.
The SofaBaton U2 is able to control up to 15 different devices at once, and you’ll also be able to copy-paste your settings into the SofaBaton app (for iOS and Android) if you’d rather control your system with your phone or tablet. And like the previous model, the macro button will let you program multiple commands to a chain of peripherals, so in event that you want to watch a 4K Blu-ray, all you have to do is launch the “Blu-ray” command and all of your necessary components will automatically power and switch inputs.
SofaBaton X1 The best fully-loaded universal remote Controls up to 60 different components Rechargeable USB-C battery Can be used with Alexa and Google Assistant Works with Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and IR Pricey A little too advanced for some A/V setups If your home theater system includes more than 15 components, with many of them hidden behind a faux wall that blocks all IR signals, check out the SofaBaton X1.
The SofaBaton X1 is the best fully-loaded universal remote you can buy these days, and we’re big fans of pretty much everything about it. You may notice that we feature both of SB’s most popular remotes in our roundup, and that’s because they’re both fantastic; but the X1 delivers just a little bit more in every single way. For starters, where the U1 could only program up to 15 devices, the X1 will store up to 60. All of the X1 buttons are backlit, a small consideration that is very absent on the U1 model. And as far as the display goes, the X1 has a better interface when compared to the U1.
You’ll also be able to connect the SofaBaton X1 to your home Wi-Fi, which will allow you to control your many components using both Alexa and Google Assistant; and the included SofaBaton hub will let you control devices that aren’t directly in sight. It’s one of the more expensive remote options out there, but if you’re looking for the modern end-all-be-all of peripheral power, this is the way to go.
GE GE Backlit Universal Remote Control The best bare bones universal remote Simple operation Backlit buttons Easy, code-based programming Dirt cheap Only controls four devices Can't learn missing commands Infrared only The GE Backlit Universal Remote does just enough, and sometimes that's all you need. This remote provides a straightforward way to control up to four devices using a host of pre-programmed codes while sporting a traditional design equipped with a basic D-pad and all of the most salient TV/media commands you could need.
If touchscreens and programming via a PC or mobile app feel too convoluted for your needs, the GE 48843 is a perfect choice: It's cheap — but not cheaply made — and it has everything you need to control your infrared devices.
More One For All One for All Smart Control 8 Universal Remote Control Most powerful for infrared devices Controls up to eight devices Smartphone app-based setup User-programmable macros No Bluetooth control One of the Logitech Harmony's best features was its ability to group device commands into activities — macros that could be executed with a single button. And while the URC7880 isn't nearly as easy to program as the Harmony family, it does give you that same activity-based, one-button access to macros, which is a huge convenience.
Those activities can combine commands from up to eight devices, which should be more than enough flexibility for turning on your TV, your Blu-ray player, and your A/V receiver and then setting them to the desired inputs and outputs. The only caveat is that there's no way to exert control over these devices if they aren't infrared-compatible — the URC7880 uses Bluetooth to talk to the One for All app on your smartphone, but for some reason, it can't pair with any other Bluetooth device, like a game console or streaming media device.
In addition to the five available activities, there are three shortcut buttons that can be programmed to access your favorite streaming media services like Netflix , Amazon Prime Video , or Disney+.
 And if any of your devices' infrared codes aren't stored in the One for All online database, you can use the URC7880's learning function to grab them from your original remote.
The companion app can even act as a remote finder if you manage to misplace the URC7880. Our only real complaint is that this unit doesn't have backlit buttons for easier navigation in darkened rooms.
More Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Amazon Fire TV Cube The best for voice control Directly supports cable/satellite set-top boxes Same great Alexa integration Fire TV OS is good, if busy Incrementally better overall Less simplicity with so many features Yup, we know: The Amazon Fire TV Cube is not a universal remote. But hear us out on this one. What you may not know about the Fire TV Cube is that unlike all other Fire TV devices — and, frankly, unlike all other streaming media devices, period — it can control many of the other devices in your home theater. And you can use spoken commands to do it.
Buried within the Fire TV Cube's small box-shaped enclosure are a set of infrared transmitters. Just like any other universal remote, these can be programmed to emit IR commands for a huge variety of devices, including TVs, soundbars, and A/V receivers.
Within the Fire TV's interface, you can set up these devices, which can then be controlled using the Fire TV Cube's included remote, or for a true starship Enterprise experience, you can use your voice instead. Saying, "Alexa, open Netflix," can trigger the same sequence of commands as the Activities on a Harmony or One for All remote — your TV turns on, your A/V receiver turns on, and your Fire TV Cube opens the Netflix app. You're good to go.
There is one limitation: All of your devices must be IR-controllable. The Fire TV Cube has Bluetooth, but this is only used for pairing things like headphones and game controllers. However, if a device you want to control can be connected to your TV via HDMI, there's a good chance the Cube will be able to control it over HDMI-CEC anyway.
And because this is Alexa we're talking about, the Cube can also control any smart home devices you may want to use while watching a movie, like dimming smart lightbulbs or rolling down your motorized smart blinds.
More Editors' Recommendations Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Best Black Friday soundbar deals: Save on Samsung, Bose, and more Best earbuds for making phone calls for 2023 The best OLED TV of 2023 is $700 off: 77-inch LG C3 OLED The best kids headphones of 2023: for fun, safety, and more Best Products Audio / Video If you want the absolute best for your home theater setup, you should check out the OLED TV deals that are available within your budget. For those willing to splurge, check out the 65-inch Sony Bravia XR A80L OLED 4K TV, which is on sale from Best Buy at $600 off to pull its price down to $1,700 from $2,300. The discount still doesn't make it cheap, but you'll quickly understand why it's worth it once the OLED TV is in your living room. As one of the retailer's early Black Friday deals, we're not sure if it will still be available for the shopping holiday, so if you're interested, it's highly recommended that you make the purchase now.
Why you should buy the 65-inch Sony Bravia XR A80L OLED 4K TV This version of the Sony Bravia XR A80L OLED 4K TV features a 65-inch screen, which is a great size for watching sports programs, catching up on streaming shows, binging on movies, and playing video games. The 4K Ultra HD resolution and Sony's Cognitive Processor XR promise lifelike details and vivid colors, and while it's not the largest display out there, you should still check out our guide on what size TV to buy to make sure that you have enough space for this OLED TV.
Audio / Video While you're searching for some excellent TV deals, you might want to consider looking at some of the best projector deals, too. Projectors allow you to expand the size of the display in excess of 100 inches in some cases. It's your opportunity to create a true home theater setup that rivals even the biggest and most advanced theaters out there. One such deal features the Epson EpiqVision Flex full HD smart Android TV projector for $130 off at Best Buy. That's right, it's normally $630, but you can get it today for just $500. It's a 3,000 Lumens ultra-bright HD projector that delivers a picture four times the size of a 75-inch flat panel. Hurry, though. The deal won't last long.
Why you should buy the Epson EpiqVision Flex CO-FH02 smart home theater projector With most home theater projectors, you have to connect a streaming device to the unit to even begin streaming content. That's not the case with Epson's EpiqVision home theater projector, which has the Android TV smart streaming platform built-in. It also supports Chromecast so that you can cast content from your mobile devices right to the system. If you need a little help choosing between this Epson or another, our guide on choosing the right home theater projector can certainly help.
Audio / Video Here's one of the most attractive TV deals that we've come across recently -- the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV for a very affordable price of $520, following a $280 discount from Best Buy on its original price of $800. With an average rating of 4.6 stars out of 5 stars after more than 1,000 reviews, you can be sure that you won't regret buying this 4K TV, especially for much cheaper than usual. You'll need to hurry though, because we're not sure how much time remains before stocks run out.
Why you should buy the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV You'll have to consult our guide on what size TV to buy if you have enough space for this gigantic display, but once you confirm that you do, there's no reason not to go for the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV if you can afford it. With such a large screen, you'll feel like you're watching movies in the theater, especially with the sharp details and bright colors provided by 4K Ultra HD resolution and High Dynamic Range in the form of Dolby Vision and HDR 10.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
