Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Bose Smart Soundbar 600 review: bigger than its body By Simon Cohen Close $499.00 Easy setup Excellent Atmos for its size Clear and engaging dialog AirPlay and Chromecast Good music quality No HDMI inputs Smart speaker is Alexa-only Limited in-app music services It doesn’t matter whether a company is selling a pint-sized Bluetooth speaker or a multi-component home theater system with hundreds of watts of power, you will inevitably see the words “room-filling sound” used to describe it. It’s so pervasive, the term has kind of lost its meaning.
Same body, new soul Easy setup Big, bold sound Bose vs. Beam But one listen to the new $499 Bose Smart Soundbar 600 , and you quickly realize there’s no better way to characterize what this compact, Dolby Atmos soundbar does for movies, TV shows, and music. It’s not without a few flaws, but what it gets right more than makes up for where it goes astray.
Bose’s new flagship Dolby Atmos soundbar brings AI smarts to the dialogue problem Dolby Atmos FlexConnect could eliminate home theater soundbars and HDMI cables How we test soundbars Same body, new soul Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Smart Soundbar 600 effectively is a Dolby Atmos -enabled version of Bose’s Smart Soundbar 300.
 They’re identical in size and shape, which explains why the two speakers share the same $499 regular price.
Like the 300, it has no HDMI inputs, just a single HDMI ARC/eARC output. So take note: If your TV can’t process or pass Dolby Atmos through to an attached speaker, you won’t be getting Dolby Atmos sound from this soundbar. There’s an optical connection too, which is fine if you only need Dolby 5.1, but optical connections can’t handle the extra bandwidth requirements of Dolby Atmos.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends There’s no ethernet connection either, so if your Wi-Fi isn’t rock-solid near your TV, or heaven forbid, you don’t do Wi-Fi at all, the Smart Soundbar won’t be able to access the internet. Without internet access, you’ll be locked out of virtually all its settings, which are controlled exclusively by the Bose Music mobile app for iOS and Android. No internet also means you won’t be able to use streaming music services unless you connect your phone to the speaker via Bluetooth — more on that later.
There are exactly zero day-to-day controls on the soundbar itself, save for the mic mute and voice assistant activation touch controls, so make sure you don’t lose the included remote, which is easier to do than you might think. It’s tiny.
Easy setup Simon Cohen / Digital Trends These quibbles aside, Bose makes setting up the Smart Soundbar 600 very easy — again, as long as you have Wi-Fi. It’s all done through the Music app and takes only a few minutes. Inside the app, you get access to a generous number of settings, including the ability to set the individual levels of the center and height channels as well as bass and treble.
If you have a subscription to a streaming music service like Deezer, Spotify, Pandora, SiriusXM, or TuneIn, you can play and control your music directly with the app. But for most folks, it will be easier to use the 600’s AirPlay or Chromecast built-in capabilities along with any third-party music app on your phone, like Apple Music.
When it comes to clear dialog, the Smart Soundbar 600 is an absolute rockstar.
The 600 is also Bose’s response to the Dolby Atmos-capable, $499 second-gen Sonos Beam.
 These two companies have played a highly competitive game of one-upmanship for years, so the pressure was on Bose to differentiate the 600 in a meaningful way.
Its strategy: Replace two of the front-firing drivers from the Smart Soundbar 300’s chassis with up-firing units in order to achieve the overhead sound effects that are so emblematic of the Dolby Atmos format. That’s a bold choice. Most soundbars rely heavily on their front-firing drivers to deliver the majority of the sound you hear. Redirecting 66% of that power away from a front presentation could be problematic.
For its size, I have yet to hear a more convincing Atmos performance.
But it’s a gamble based on a valid concept. Sonos’ Beam Gen 2 doesn’t have any up-firing drivers and relies exclusively on Dolby Atmos virtualization, a software-driven way of tricking your brain into thinking that some of the Beam’s five front-facing drivers are bouncing sound off the ceiling. In theory, Bose’s dedicated up-firing drivers should do a better job, at least as far as creating an immersive 3D sound is concerned.
Big, bold sound Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Did that gamble pay off? In most of the ways that matter, I think it did. The Smart Soundbar 600 possesses a remarkably tall and wide soundstage. Bose has always been highly adept at shaping sound to create the illusion of so-called phantom surround speakers in your room, and with the 600’s up-firing drivers, that illusion now extends to the ceiling.
Neither the 600 nor the Beam Gen 2 can do full justice to a Dolby Atmos soundtrack — for that, you really need a Dolby Atmos AV receiver and a set of dedicated 5.1.2 or better speakers (including ceiling-mounted units) — but for its size, I have yet to hear a more convincing Atmos performance than the Smart Soundbar 600.
I want to offer one small caveat: Bose doesn’t include any room correction function on the 600, unlike the microphone-based Adaptiq system that accompanies the more expensive Smart Soundbars 700 and 900 or Sonos’s app-based TruePlay system. So you may have to do some fiddling with those level controls I mentioned to get things dialed in for your space.
The Bose 600 throws overhead Atmos sounds better than the Beam Gen 2 — especially higher frequency ones like bullets ricocheting or missiles shrieking ( No Time To Die is a great example) — and when it comes to clear dialog, the Bose is an absolute rock star. I had to crank the treble on the Beam just to come close to the 600’s default clarity.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Those up-firing speakers also helped the Bose position the source of the dialog above the speaker itself, making it seem as though it was coming directly from the actors’ mouths.
Thanks to Bose’s TrueSpace tech, even non-Atmos content possessed a much more immersive quality, which makes sense; those up-firing and side-firing speakers are there, so you might as well use them.
I was expecting the Beam to outshine the Bose in low-frequency sounds — it has a larger enclosure which can help with this task — but the Bose is shockingly good for bass. It won’t rattle your windows or shake your sofa, but the low end can be heard perfectly well, even at lower volumes.
Speaking of volume, one complaint I’ve read about the Beam is that it doesn’t get loud enough for some folks. The Bose 600 suffers no such problems — at 50% volume, it’s much louder than the Beam.
There are some tradeoffs. By not moving sound around quite as much, the Beam Gen 2 sounds fuller, with more detail in the midranges. It also presents a more cohesive, cinematic experience across those all-important front left/right channels. While screening Denis Villeneuve’s Dune , the Bose let me appreciate the whizzing movements of the insect-like ornithopters, but the Beam communicated the soundtrack’s emotion with greater punch.
It should be no surprise then that, when it comes to straight-up music listening, the Beam has an advantage. Its sound signature is warmer and richer, a signature Sonos tonal quality that many have come to love. I wanted very much to disable Bose’s TrueSpace function, to see if it would make a difference, but that option isn’t available — it’s always on, even for stereo music.
That said, if you’ve ever compared Bose’s headphones or earbuds to those from Sony, the same tonal observations are true, and that hasn’t stopped Bose from earning a loyal following. If you like the “Bose sound,” the Smart Soundbar 600 won’t disappoint.
Bose vs. Beam The Sonos Beam Gen 2 sits atop the Bose Smart Soundbar 600.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends It’s impossible to avoid other Beam comparisons, so let’s address them all. Size-wise, the Beam is a little narrower but stands taller than the very short Smart Soundbar 600. The 600 is Dolby Atmos-compatible, but the Beam can do Dolby formats and DTS Digital Surround , which might matter to specific audiences like gamers.
If you’re an Android user, the Smart Soundbar has an edge with both Bluetooth and Chromecast (both of which are lacking on Sonos products), so you’ve got more ways to connect. You can also connect to more kinds of devices. Bose’s SimpleSync lets you pair a compatible set of Bose Bluetooth Headphones for private listening — ideal for when you want the full theater experience without waking your housemates or neighbors.
The Smart Soundbar 600 can be used as a smart speaker, just like the Beam, but Bose has dropped Google Assistant as an option, and unlike Sonos, it doesn’t have its own native voice assistant. This leaves Amazon Alexa as your only choice for turning the 600 into a self-contained smart speaker.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends It’s worth noting that the soundbar is still compatible with Google Assistant, but you’ll need a Google speaker, like a Nest Mini, if you want to use Google to control the 600 for music streaming.
With support for Alexa, Google, and its own Sonos Voice Control , that puts the Beam well ahead in the smarts department, save for one pretty cool feature: If you use Alexa on the Smart Soundbar 600, you can enable Bose’s Voice4Video function, which lets you control a connected TV and a cable/satellite box using just your voice. I had some technical difficulties getting it set up on this soundbar, but I’ve used it on the Smart Soundbar 300, and it worked well.
The other major difference between Bose and Sonos is multiroom audio. If you don’t want or need to control multiple speakers in your home, this is irrelevant. But if you do, Sonos’s platform is far more powerful and easy to use. It’s also vastly superior if you want to juggle multiple streaming services and/or your own music library.
Overall — and despite a few imperfections — the Bose Smart Soundbar 600 is a good choice to turn any small or midsize TV room into an entertaining space for movies, TV, and music. It’s got some of the best Dolby Atmos realism you’ll find in a single, compact speaker, and if you struggle with dialog, it will bring a smile to your face.
I don’t know how much longer Bose plans to sell the Smart Soundbar 300, but given its identical price, the only reasons I can think to choose it over the 600 are you really like Google Assistant or have no need for Dolby Atmos compatibility and would prefer a soundbar that puts an emphasis on forward sound, not 3D sound.
Editors' Recommendations The best Dolby Atmos soundbars for 2023 Sennheiser’s Ambeo Soundbar Mini is a pricey, bedroom-sized Dolby Atmos speaker Nakamichi increases the price of its Dragon 11.4.6 soundbar Samsung adds HW-Q900C to its lineup of 2023 Dolby Atmos soundbars Nakamichi’s wild Dragon 11.4.6 Dolby Atmos soundbar goes up for preorder this week Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Audio / Video Sonos has officially unveiled two new wireless smart speakers -- the $249 Sonos Era 100, and the $449 Sonos Era 300. While the Era 100 is effectively a new version of the aging Sonos One, which it replaces, the Era 300 is an entirely new type of speaker for the company, with six drivers (including an up-firing tweeter) and compatibility with spatial audio formats like Dolby Atmos.
The leaks pretty much nailed it. Both speakers will be available on March 28 in 26 countries including the U.S., Canada, Mexico, the U.K., Ireland, Germany, and Australia, with preorders beginning March 7.
Audio / Video JBL has taken the wraps off its most powerful Dolby Atmos soundbar to date at CES 2023. The Bar 1300X follows the same design principles as the company's previous top-of-the-line Bar series soundbars, including the line's signature detachable, fully wireless surround speaker modules, and a wireless subwoofer. But the Bar 1300X brings even more sound and power to your TV room, with an 11.1.4-channel configuration and a massive 1,170 watts of total power. It will be available on February 19, 2023, for $1,700.
The JBL Bar 1300X boasts both Dolby Atmos and DTS:X compatibility, but what sets it apart from JBL's other Atmos/DTS:X soundbars is its six dedicated up-firing drivers, which will presumably do a better job of delivering the height channel effects that these 3D surround sound formats are known for. It also has the largest wireless subwoofer in the Bar range, with a 12-inch driver.
Audio / Video CES 2023 is still a couple of weeks away, but LG is already offering a sneak peek at the soundbars it will be bringing to the show. Two new models will be on display -- the SC9 and SE6 -- and LG says they will seamlessly integrate with the company's 2023 TVs, a trend we've seen evolving from Samsung, Sony, and Vizio.
For 2023, LG is expanding what its Wowcast technology can do. In addition to providing a fully wireless audio link between the soundbar and a compatible LG TV, the speakers and TVs can collaborate on audio duties via Wow Orchestra -- LG's version of Samsung's Q Symphony -- so that all speakers on the TV and the soundbar are being used to create the most immersive sound experience.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
