Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides How to connect a soundbar to a TV: A guide to cables, connections, and features By Simon Cohen Close Soundbars have become hugely popular thanks to their ability to quickly, easily — and in many cases, affordably — improve your TV’s sound. In general, connecting a soundbar to your TV is quick and painless: Plug the soundbar into the TV using a cable that came in the box, and then plug the soundbar into a power outlet. If all goes well, just turn both devices on and you’ll be listening to great TV sound and music in moments.
Connection types: Wired or wireless What about Bluetooth? HDMI: ARC or eARC Optical connections Analog connections Cable choices But before you rush out and buy one of the best soundbars for your TV, let’s take a closer look at how soundbars and TVs talk to each other. Soundbars are simpler to set up than dedicated A/V receivers and speakers, but there are still several options depending on your TV, your soundbar, and your room. Here’s what you need to know.
Connection types: Wired or wireless Bill Roberson/Digital Trends Soundbars connect to TVs using a wired connection. The two major types of wired connections are HDMI and optical. We’ll dig into these in a moment.
Bose’s new flagship Dolby Atmos soundbar brings AI smarts to the dialogue problem Dolby Atmos FlexConnect could eliminate home theater soundbars and HDMI cables How we test soundbars Why a wired connection instead of wireless? For now, a wired connection still provides the best possible audio quality, synchronization (so what you hear matches what you see), and reliability.
But wireless connections are beginning to emerge. At CES 2021, TCL announced the Alto R1 , the first soundbar that needs only a single cable for power and then uses a wireless link to connect to a compatible Roku TV.
A wireless connection has an obvious advantage: If you don’t need to run a cable from the soundbar to the TV, you can achieve a cleaner look and it gives you more flexibility in terms of placement and mounting options.
But TCL still hasn’t announced a price or release date for the Alto R1, and we don’t yet know if there are any limitations to Roku’s Wi-Fi-based wireless connection.
What about Bluetooth? Image used with permission by copyright holder You may have seen that a lot of soundbars support Bluetooth, and now you’re wondering if it’s possible to connect your soundbar to your TV in the same way that you can connect your smartphone to a Bluetooth speaker.
The short answer is yes, you can, but your ability to do so will depend on your TV’s capabilities. Some TVs support Bluetooth audio connections and some don’t. But even if your TV supports Bluetooth, here are a few reasons you should avoid this kind of connection from a TV to a soundbar.
Convenience: Most wired connections create a power trigger between the TV and the soundbar. Turning on the TV causes the soundbar to power on, and in some cases, this works in the other direction too. But with Bluetooth, that power trigger doesn’t exist. You’ll have to power on each device separately and then wait for them to connect. And that assumes that your TV and soundbar can be set to reconnect via Bluetooth as soon as they’re powered on, which they may simply not be designed to do.
Sound quality: Bluetooth may be just fine for two-channel stereo, but it was never intended for multichannel formats like Dolby 5.1, DTS:X, or Dolby Atmos.
 Even if your soundbar only has two channels, you’ll be restricting what it can do with those channels if you connect to your TV using Bluetooth.
If your TV supports Bluetooth, consider reserving that function for connecting Bluetooth headphones or earbuds. If your soundbar supports it, think of it as a convenient way to stream music from your smartphone or other Bluetooth devices.
HDMI: ARC or eARC Image used with permission by copyright holder High Definition Multimedia Interface, or HDMI as most of us know it, has become the de facto single-cable solution for passing digital audio and video between devices like cable boxes, Blu-ray players, gaming consoles, and TVs. Most TVs will have anywhere from one to four HDMI inputs and you’re probably already using one or more on your TV. But newer TVs also support something called HDMI ARC or HDMI eARC.
ARC stands for Audio Return Channel and eARC stands for enhanced Audio Return Channel. Both of these connections give TVs the ability to receive audio and video via an HDMI port while using that same port to output just audio.
We have a full HDMI ARC/eARC explainer that gets into all of the details, but here’s the bottom line: An HDMI connection (whether ARC or eARC) is the preferred way to connect a soundbar to a TV because it guarantees that your soundbar will receive the highest quality audio signal that it is capable of receiving. It also lets your TV remote control some of your soundbar’s settings like volume and mute — handy if you want to reduce clutter.
The only caveat is that if you have a lot of devices connected to your TV, using one of those HDMI ports for your soundbar means one less port for your other gadgets. There are two ways around this. Some soundbars come with their own HDMI inputs. You can use these as alternatives to your TV’s inputs, but you’ll have to remember which devices are connected to the soundbar and which are connected to the TV so you can select the appropriate input when you start watching.
The other way is to buy a separate HDMI switcher.
 A switcher converts a single HDMI input on your TV to multiple HDMI inputs (from just two to more than ten depending on the switcher). But as with the inputs on the soundbar, you’ll need to remember which devices are plugged into which ports on the switcher and control it manually or via a remote.
Optical connections Image used with permission by copyright holder If your TV doesn’t have HDMI ARC/eARC, or you really dislike the idea of giving up an HDMI port for the sake of connecting a soundbar, an optical connection is your best bet.
Optical ports (also known as TOSLink or S/PDIF) provide a one-way digital audio connection between your TV and a soundbar. The quality is excellent, but optical ports are limited to certain kinds of audio content.
Optical connections can handle two-channel stereo and up to 5.1 channels of Dolby Digital sound. But they can’t accommodate the greater bandwidth requirements of formats like Dolby Digital Plus, Dolby Atmos, or DTS:X, whereas HDMI ARC/eARC does support these formats.
Some soundbars have HDMI and optical ports so you can choose the one you’d like to use. But increasingly, companies are starting to go HDMI-only.
But don’t worry — if your TV only supports optical out, and your chosen soundbar only has HDMI, you can buy an inexpensive optical-to-HDMI converter. Some HDMI-only soundbars, like the Sonos Beam , come with one of these converters in the box.
If you don’t mind the audio format limitations of optical, it’s a good way to go, unless your soundbar relies on HDMI to do what it needs to do. For instance, the Roku Streambar contains a full Roku streaming device. The only way to see that Roku experience is to connect the Streambar to a TV via HDMI. Likewise, there are some soundbars that offer on-screen access to settings menus (a great alternative to using a soundbar’s tiny alphanumeric display), but these too rely on HDMI.
Analog connections Image used with permission by copyright holder If neither HDMI nor optical are available on your TV your last option (assuming your soundbar has an analog input) is an analog cable. These come with two types of connectors: Stereo RCA (a red plug and a white plug) or a 3.5mm stereo plug (the kind that most wired headphones use). Depending on your TV and soundbar, you might need a cable with the same connectors at each end, or different connectors.
Either way, an analog connection will send sound from your TV to a soundbar, but you’ll be limited to two-channel stereo and sound quality may not be as good as one of the digital options.
Cable choices Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’ve chosen the optical path, you just need an optical cable that’s long enough to stretch from your TV to your soundbar. There are differences in optical cables from a construction point of view — some are much more robust than others — but they all work the same way. You will not get higher-quality audio by spending more on an optical cable.
HDMI cables are a slightly different story. If you are strictly using an HDMI cable to pass audio from your TV to your soundbar, you should be able to use any HDMI cable that has the length you need.
If you’re going to pass video from the soundbar to the TV (using one of the soundbar’s HDMI inputs as the source) it’s really important that your HDMI cable be capable of handling the bandwidth requirements.
HDMI cables are rated by speed, measured in gigabits per second (Gbps). The faster a cable’s speed, the more data it can handle. Full HD or 4K video can be safely transmitted at “high speed” ratings of 10.2 Gbps. If you add high dynamic range (HDR) , 60 frames per second content, and audio formats like Dolby Digital Plus or Dolby True HD, you’ll need the “premium high speed” rating of 18 Gbps.
Finally, if you’re going all the way with 8K content, or 4K video at 120 frames per second, you should choose the “ultra high speed” rating of 48 Gbps.
But here’s the catch: It doesn’t matter if your HDMI cable is the fastest in the world if your soundbar isn’t capable of passing 4K @120Hz from its input to its output, or your TV isn’t capable of displaying that content. Make sure you check that your equipment can deliver what you expect of it.
Editors' Recommendations The best Dolby Atmos soundbars for 2023 Sennheiser’s Ambeo Soundbar Mini is a pricey, bedroom-sized Dolby Atmos speaker Nakamichi increases the price of its Dragon 11.4.6 soundbar HDMI ARC and eARC: the one-cable solution for TV audio, fully explained TCL’s 2023 soundbars are affordable, but lack a key feature Soundbars Speakers Audio / Video Samsung has been pretty quiet about its 2023 lineup of Dolby Atmos soundbars since it announced the new collection back at CES 2023, but we finally have all of the models, prices, and features. As we already knew, the latest flagship is the HW-Q990C, a monster 22-driver, 11.1.4-channel system that carries forward the legacy of the HW-Q990B from 2022 -- a soundbar that deeply impressed our reviewer. However, it's now joined by the HW-Q900C -- a more affordable version for folks who don't need the 990C's surround speakers, but who nonetheless may want to add them at a later date.
Also new to the collection are two C-Series models that bring the price of better TV sound down to $200 or less. Here's the full lineup.
Samsung Q-Series Dolby Atmos soundbars In addition to Dolby Atmos compatibility, Samsung's Q-Series soundbars feature Q-Symphony, a feature that lets a compatible Samsung TV enhance the soundbar's own performance through the use of the TV's built-in speakers. Version 3.0 of Q-Symphony also uses the TV’s sound algorithms to analyze each scene to match the TV and soundbar outputs.
Audio / Video Nakamichi's epic Dragon 11.4.6 Dolby Atmos soundbar, which debuted at CES 2023, is about to go up for preorder starting at 9 a.m. PT on April 26. But instead of the usual preorder process, Nakamichi has decided to make the first Dragons off the line limited editions. Officially, it will be called the Nakamichi Dragon 11.4.6 Home Surround Sound System 75th Anniversary World Premiere Edition, and only 500 will be made.
Nakamichi has set the price at $3,499. That includes free shipping, but apparently only to U.S. residents. In a footnote on the preorder site, it says that Nakamichi initially planned to offer international shipping too, but had to reevaluate those plans after it discovered the logistics company it's using (eBay’s Global Shipping Program, for some reason) has a maximum weight and dollar value threshold, which the Dragon exceeds by almost $1,000. I guess some dragons don't fly.
Audio / Video JBL has taken the wraps off its most powerful Dolby Atmos soundbar to date at CES 2023. The Bar 1300X follows the same design principles as the company's previous top-of-the-line Bar series soundbars, including the line's signature detachable, fully wireless surround speaker modules, and a wireless subwoofer. But the Bar 1300X brings even more sound and power to your TV room, with an 11.1.4-channel configuration and a massive 1,170 watts of total power. It will be available on February 19, 2023, for $1,700.
The JBL Bar 1300X boasts both Dolby Atmos and DTS:X compatibility, but what sets it apart from JBL's other Atmos/DTS:X soundbars is its six dedicated up-firing drivers, which will presumably do a better job of delivering the height channel effects that these 3D surround sound formats are known for. It also has the largest wireless subwoofer in the Bar range, with a 12-inch driver.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
