Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to connect a stereo pair of Apple HomePods to your Apple TV By Derek Malcolm Close If you haven't already heard, Apple's latest HomePod — which was brought back from the dead and now dazzles in its second generation — sounds pretty darn good. On its own it offers beautiful, rich, Spatial Audio sound that can fill a room, thanks to its large woofer, five beam-forming tweeters that shoot sound off walls and into different parts of the room, and its room-sensing capabilities that help it do this just right for the room it's in.
Create a Stereo pair of HomePods How to set up your stereo pair of HomePods with your Apple TV 4K Position your HomePods for best results But as we learned in our review of the 2nd-gen HomePod , creating a stereo pair with another HomePod is on a whole other level. Not only does it create a much wider soundstage and bigger, bolder bass for listening to music, but Spatial Audio tracks on Apple Music sound immersive and dynamic, if you're into an experience beyond that of regular stereo (which the HomePod is great at, too).
But where things get even more impressive is when setting up a pair of stereo-paired HomePods with an Apple TV 4K for some Dolby Atmos surround sound that rivals that of soundbars or multi-speaker surround sound systems, making them a reasonable option. You can, of course, connect just one HomePod to the Apple TV 4K , and it will sound pretty good too, but a stereo pair will for sure sound better.
If you've already set your sights on a set of HomePods (or already have a pair of HomePod Minis), here's how to set up a stereo pair of either speaker with an Apple TV 4K. It is worth noting, though, that a stereo pair of HomePod Minis do not support Dolby Atmos 5.1 or 7.1 surround sound. Here we go.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Two Apple HomePods (2nd gen) Two Apple HomePods Minis Apple TV 4K running the latest software Apple Create a Stereo pair of HomePods Before you can enjoy all the benefits of this immersive spatial audio, Dolby Atmos sound for your movies, TV shows, and music through your Apple TV 4K, you should create a stereo pair with your HomePods. To do this, first, you need to make sure that both HomePods are the exact same model (first-gen HomePod, HomePod Mini, or second-gen HomePod) — you cannot mix and match models. Also, all your devices need to be on the same Wi-Fi network.
If you're setting up your HomePods for the first time, after you set up the first speaker, when you begin the setup process for the second speaker, your iOS device will automatically ask you if you want to add it to a stereo pair. All you have to do here is select whether the second speaker is to be the left or right speaker, and that's it. Easy peasy.
If you already have a HomePod set up and you want to add a second for a stereo pair, here's how.
Step 1: On your iOS device, open the Home app and select one of your HomePods.
Step 2: Tap the Settings icon — the one that looks like a gear.
Step 3: Scroll down and tap Create Stereo Pair and follow the onscreen instructions.
Step 4: It will ask you to choose the second HomePod in the stereo pair. Tap to confirm the other HomePod and choose whether it will be the left or right. You can tap the switch icon if you want to change it.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends How to set up your stereo pair of HomePods with your Apple TV 4K To use your stereo-paired HomePods with your Apple TV to get an immersive sound with support for Dolby Atmos, and Dolby Digital 7.1 and 5.1 formats, here's how. HomePod Mini, however, does not support these formats, but will automatically play them in mono or stereo.
Step 1: First, make sure your Apple TV 4K and iPhone or iPad are updated to at least iOS 16.3.
Step 2: Make sure that your HomePod stereo pair is assigned to the same room as your Apple TV 4K in the Apple Home app.
Step 3: If you're setting this ups using an iPhone or iPad, open the Home app and tap Apple TV.
Step 4: Scroll down and tap the Settings icon.
Step 5: Select Default Audio Output and then select the room you've assigned to your stereo pair of HomePods. This will route all sound from your Apple TV through your stereo pair.
Step 6: If you're setting this up using the Apple TV 4K instead, the process is similar. Using the Apple TV remote, go to Settings , Video and Audio , and then Audio Output to select the HomePod as your speaker.
Position your HomePods for best results As we mentioned above, a pair of stereo HomePods can be an excellent alternative to a soundbar for your TV's sound, not to mention great sounding for music as well. But unlike a soundbar that sits dead-center under the front of your TV, it's recommended by Apple that you position your HomePods at the left and right of your TV screen, at at least four feet apart.
Additionally, and with any set of speakers, really, try to make sure the speakers are sitting at around head level from your usual viewing location. Apple's computational sound will automatically scan the room and adjust the sound accordingly.
Editors' Recommendations This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted Walmart’s Black Friday sale has a 50-inch 4K TV for $148 55-inch Samsung 4K TV is under $300 in Walmart’s Black Friday sale Apple Apple TV How-To Guides Audio / Video There's no need to wait for the chance to upgrade your home theater setup into your personal cinema, as Best Buy's early Black Friday deals include an $800 discount on the 85-inch Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV. From its original price of $2,800, it's available for $2,000 -- it's still not what you'd call affordable, but it's definitely a worthwhile purchase. It's unclear if the bargain will remain online through the shopping holiday, but since there's a chance that stocks sell out, we're urging you to push through with the transaction as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the 85-inch Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV The Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV is in our list of the best TVs because of the solid value that its provides. With an 85-inch display featuring 4K Ultra HD resolution for sharp details, Sony's Cognitive Processor XR that enables lifelike picture quality, and Dolby Vision that further elevates images with deeper blacks and vibrant colors, your eyes will be in for a treat. You may have to check out our guide on what size TV to buy to make sure that you have enough space for the Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV, but once you've confirmed, you won't be running out of things to watch on this 85-inch screen as it's powered by Google TV, so you'll be able to access all of the popular streaming services.
Audio / Video It's 2023 -- time to upgrade to an OLED TV. OLED technology gives you darker blacks, richer colors, and more accurate lighting than any other TV technology. While you're browsing for the best OLED TV deals, don't discount the best OLED TVs of 2023 just because you assume they're too expensive. In fact, our favorite OLED TV of the year has a fantastic discount today.
That's right, the best OLED TV out there, the LG C3, is currently on the sale at Best Buy. The 77-inch LG C3 is normally $3,200, but right now it's down to just $$2,500, a nice $700 discount that shouldn't be ignored. OLED TVs of this size don't get much cheaper than this, so you might as well go for a top shelf product. If you're not sure yet, keep reading as why dive into what makes the LG C3 the best OLED TV out there for your money. But make sure to grab this TV before the deal ends.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about upgrading your home theater setup -- and you're willing to splurge -- you should check out the 65-inch LG B2 OLED 4K TV. From its original price of $2,300, it's down to $1,500 -- it's still not what you'd call cheap, but the $800 in savings is among the largest that you can get from the OLED TV deals that you can shop today. You're going to have to act fast if you're interested though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining on this massive discount.
Why you should buy the 65-inch LG B2 OLED 4K TV OLED, which is still considered the premier display technology today, is the calling card of LG as one of the best TV brands, so you know that you'll be getting a top-quality TV with the LG B2 OLED 4K TV. With a 65-inch screen featuring 4K Ultra HD resolution for sharp details and lifelike colors, and powered by LG's a7 Gen5 AI Processor 4K that adjusts picture and sound for the best possible viewing experience, the LG B2 OLED 4K TV will transform your living room into your personal cinema. The OLED TV also runs on LG's webOS 22, so you'll never run out of things to watch through all of the popular streaming services.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
