Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LG S95QR soundbar review: Your new home theater in a (very big) box By Simon Cohen Close $1,800.00 Impressive Dolby Atmos sound Plenty of app-based settings Two HDMI inputs Hi-res music support AirPlay and Chromecast built-in Bass lacks some rumble Poor instructions No way to save preferred settings Riddle me this: When is a soundbar not a soundbar? Answer: When it’s a full-fledged replacement for a dedicated Dolby Atmos home theater system. I mean, yes, LG’s flagship soundbar, the $1,800 9.1.5-channel S95QR, is a soundbar.
But that’s like saying the Burj Khalifa is a skyscraper — technically accurate, and yet also a massive understatement.
What’s in that big box? Design Connections Setup and ease of use Sound quality Wait, 9.1.5? Our take With a dedicated subwoofer, two wireless surround satellites with their own up-firing drivers, and tons of settings, inputs, and format support, about the only thing the S95QR has in common with a traditional soundbar is its total lack of speaker cables.
B&W Panorama 3 soundbar: Easy Dolby Atmos for $1,000 Bose’s new flagship soundbar delivers Dolby Atmos for home theaters Samsung’s 2020 soundbar lineup adds Dolby Atmos to your TV starting at $700 But now that you’re spending the equivalent of a full A/V receiver -based system, does the S95QR still offer enough advantages? Let’s see how this monster system-in-a-box stacks up.
What’s in that big box? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Why am I making such a big deal about the S95QR’s box? Because it’s massive. At 4 feet by 2 feet by 11 inches and weighing just over 33 pounds, you shouldn’t even contemplate sticking this thing in your car single-handedly unless your name is Dwayne Johnson.
And yet, for all its size, it’s a bit deceiving. A good chunk of the interior volume is used for empty cardboard boxes that act as spacers, because soundbars and subwoofers are inherently awkward shapes that don’t really fit into clean rectangular boxes.
Inside, you’ll find the main soundbar, the wireless sub, the two surround speakers, a remote with batteries, power cables for all of the speakers, an HDMI cable , and wall-mount brackets for the surrounds and soundbar. You’ll also find a quick setup guide that is barely enough to get you going (more on that later).
What you won’t find is much in the way of styrofoam or other plastics. There are still a few twist-ties and protective wraps, but there’s way less of that than in the past.
Design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends LG traditionally has favored understated, brushed-metal-and-fabric housings for its soundbars, and this approach is still on display with the S95QR. The main soundbar is fairly wide at 47 inches, but it keeps a low profile at only 2.5 inches in height. That’s low enough to stick under most TVs. But unless you’re planning to wall-mount it, don’t do that — the soundbar’s three up-firing height drivers need room to do their thing.
A set of touch controls grace the top surface, including power on/off, input select, volume, play/pause, Bluetooth, and Wi-Fi. In short, everything you could possibly need, and then some.
One of my chief annoyances with LG’s 2021 SP9YA Dolby Atmos soundbar was the hardwired power cord, which made placement and installation unnecessarily difficult. Thankfully, LG hasn’t made that mistake twice — the S95QR’s cord is fully detachable.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends There’s a small alphanumeric display hidden behind the fabric grille that shows you a variety of info for your settings, but most of the time it will simply state what input you’re using (HDMI 1, ARC, Wi-Fi, and more). It automatically dims after a few seconds, but you can’t turn it off, which I found distracting at times, given that it’s always front and center. LG tells me that this will be addressed in a future software update.
The wireless subwoofer has a front-ported, side-firing design that’s slender enough that you can probably get creative with its placement, but not too creative — you won’t want to block that big circular grille.
The included wireless surrounds are outliers in the soundbar game: not only do they sport their own up-firing height drivers, but they also feature two full-range drivers that are angled outward from each other. That means you can position them beside or behind your viewing seats, which is something smaller, more directional speakers can’t quite do as effectively. But it also means that they’re much bigger than traditional soundbar surrounds, and finding a home for them if you don’t intend on wall-mounting them could prove challenging.
Connections The S95QR is well-equipped for a variety of uses. You get two HDMI 2.1 inputs, both of which can pass through 4K video with Dolby Vision , HDR10, auto low-latency mode, and variable refresh rate (VRR) at up to 4K/60Hz. These last two specs will be mostly of interest to gamers.
The HDMI ARC/eARC is all you need to connect the soundbar to a TV. But if you prefer, an optical connection exists, too. Keep in mind that if you go with optical, you’ll lose several features, including any Dolby Atmos or DTS:X that might be coming from your TV, as well as the ability to control the soundbar’s volume/mute functions with your TV’s remote.
Sadly, there’s no way to hook your TV up to the HDMI ARC/eARC port and run a second device through the optical connection — the soundbar views them as fulfilling the same function, so it’s one or the other.
A USB port lets you access music files from a portable hard drive, a Bluetooth connection is included for casual audio streaming from a phone, and there’s Wi-Fi too, which enables a host of key music capabilities like Apple AirPlay 2 , Chromecast built-in , and Spotify Connect.
As a hi-res capable speaker, you’ll be able to play lossless, 24-bit music from the USB port or streaming services over Wi-Fi, and even your personal music collection with a bit of extra work (more on that later).
Setup and ease of use Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If you’ve ever installed a soundbar before, the S95QR won’t pose any problems. You plug the soundbar into your TV via HDMI (ideally) or optical (if you need to and have a cable), plug the subwoofer and surrounds into power outlets, then finish by plugging the soundbar into a power outlet. At this point, you’re good to go as far as TV sound is concerned.
But the included “simple” setup instructions aren’t exactly friendly for a first-timer. A complicated diagram and less-than-useful text makes it seem more confusing than the process I just outlined above.
Worse still, you’re provided with a QR code or a URL in the pamphlet so that you can download the full instructions. But take it from me — you do not want to try to read these on a phone. A tablet might work better. Instead, your best bet is to download the LG Soundbar app for iOS or Android and let it walk you through the various steps involved in getting the system fully up and running, including connections to your Wi-Fi network and triggering the soundbar’s AI-driven room-calibration sequence for the first time.
In fact, the Soundbar app will become your best friend. If you don’t avail yourself of its various menus and settings, you’ll be forced to use the included remote control in conjunction with the small, built-in display on the front of the soundbar. Since it can only show you a handful of characters at a time, you’ll need to decipher a variety of two-letter acronyms to figure out what you’re doing.
Admittedly, this is more of a problem when trying to adjust things like individual speaker levels than when switching between audio modes, but I cannot, for the life of me, understand why LG hasn’t given its flagship TV audio product an on-screen menu system. It makes the TVs that are supposedly the perfect companion to this speaker, and Sony has already proven how effective such an interface can be.
But even LG’s app has limitations. You get great control over the S95QR’s speaker levels — much better in fact than many of its competitors — as well as sound modes (music, cinema, sports, games, and more), EQ, and the ability to toggle features like auto volume and IMAX Enhanced, but there’s no way to save these as presets.
So let’s say that when you’re watching hockey, you find that reducing the bass, switching to sports mode, and increasing the level of the side speakers gives you the best results. But music and movies require a totally different combo. Unfortunately, you’ll need to make a note of these settings so you can dial them in each time you change from one type of media to another.
If all you want to do is control the volume, inputs, and audio mode, the included remote works just fine.
Sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As you might expect from an $1,800 soundbar system, the S95QR does not disappoint on audio quality. Especially for high-octane movies, the presence of five up-firing height drivers and the additional four surround drivers makes a very convincing argument that we’ve now achieved something close to parity with wired, installed, A/V receiver -based home theater systems.
It’s not quite the same — my personal system’s overhead ceiling speakers are still better at creating a Dolby Atmos or DTS:X sphere of sound. — but given the convenience of being able to unbox and set up this soundbar in minutes, it’s a fair trade-off.
For movies Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If you’ve got access to Dolby Atmos movies — say, via Netflix , Disney+ , Amazon Prime Video , or Apple TV+ — and you have yet to hear them through a proper Atmos system, you’re in for a treat.
From bullets that ricochet around the room, to airplanes and helicopters flying overhead, or the realism of a live concert, the S95QR has no problem putting you in the center of it all.
I queued up some great Atmos titles like Mad Max: Fury Road and Ford v Ferrari , but it was Denis Villeneuve’s Dune that sealed the deal for me. The soundtrack on that film is like a member of the cast, and the multiple speakers ensured it was an Oscar-worthy performance.
For all of that audio excitement, dialogue remains clear and intelligible, regardless if you’re watching a full Atmos movie or a stereo TV show. For me, LG’s room calibration produced no noticeable difference. But I found that was true of the SP9YA, too, so your mileage may vary.
My recommendation is that you spend some time with the individual speaker levels in the app. In particular, boosting the height drivers can help deliver a more immersive experience if you’re sensing that the sound isn’t all that it ought to be.
If there’s one weakness, it’s in the low-end frequencies. That subwoofer has no problem delivering power, but it doesn’t rumble as much as others. It’s the difference between hearing bass and feeling it. I didn’t notice this on the SP9YA, but LG has changed the subwoofer design since that model, opting for a slimmer, side-firing layout over the older unit’s more boxy, front-firing setup. Perhaps the new box simply has less internal volume, and thus can’t move air as effectively? It’s hard to say. This is more of a note for those thinking of upgrading from an older system. If you’ve never owned a serious home theater before, I don’t think you’ll miss a thing.
For music Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The S95QR is a solid choice for music, too, but there are a number of parameters that will affect your enjoyment. First, consider Bluetooth a fallback option. You’ll get far better results if you use AirPlay or Chromecast, which is not surprising given Wi-Fi’s vastly superior bandwidth. The system is hi-res compatible, but there’s no support for hi-res Bluetooth codecs like LDAC, aptX HD or aptX Adaptive, so again, Wi-Fi is your friend.
But because there’s no direct support for streaming music in the LG Soundbar app, you’ll need to make sure that your preferred music source has a Wi-Fi path to the S95QR. In other words, if you use an Apple device, make sure your service’s app works with AirPlay or Chromecast, or just Chromecast if you’re on Android.
The next thing to play with are the sound modes. LG includes a music mode that’s been tuned by Meridian, but don’t stop there. It’s good — a nice balance of frequencies that makes use of the soundbar’s bass capabilities — but I found I wanted to push the low-end even further, which sent me into deeper speaker levels and the bass/treble adjustments.
Listening to Dolby Atmos Music is a real thrill, but the only way to hear it currently is to use a streaming media player , like the Nvidia Shield TV 2019, hooked up to one of the HDMI inputs. Then, as long as you have access to Tidal , Apple Music , or Amazon Music’s library of Dolby Atmos tracks, you’ll get a very immersive experience.
Interestingly, even if you don’t have access to Atmos Music, if you ensure that the Surround Sound Setting is set to “on,” you can listen to standard two-channel stereo in an upmixed, 9.1.5 presentation, which is pretty awesome in its own right.
It’s worth noting that LG doesn’t provide any way to access music from your home network. So if you keep you tunes on a PC or NAS drive, you’ll need to use a third-party app to play them, and then use either AirPlay 2 (Apple devices) or Chromecast on Android to pipe them to the soundbar.
There’s also no built-in way to add the S95QR to a multiroom setup, although you’re not without options: Apple Home, Google Home, and Alexa can each be used to integrate this speaker system into a larger whole-home sound platform within those respective ecosystems.
Wait, 9.1.5? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends For the audio geeks out there, you may be wondering about LG’s declaration that the S95QR is a 9.1.5-channel system. The 9 and 1 are pretty straightforward — 9 surround channels and 1 low-frequency effects channel for the subwoofer. But 5 height channels? That’s a bit odd given that Dolby Atmos height channels are always even-numbered: .2 .4., or .6. LG tells Digital Trends that the central up-firing driver on the soundbar, which is credited with that mysterious fifth channel, isn’t actually a true channel from a soundtrack point of view — there is no fifth central height channel in a Dolby Atmos or DTS:X soundtrack.
Instead, LG is doing some clever signal processing to extract just the higher frequencies from the left and right front height channels, and is pushing these sounds to the central driver. I can’t say I was ever really aware of the difference that virtual height channel made, but more speakers is rarely a bad thing.
Our take LG’s S95QR might be expensive for a soundbar, but let’s face it, with 14 channels, two wireless surrounds, a wireless subwoofer, and 810 watts of power, it’s a soundbar in name only. Let’s call it what it is: a full, home theater replacement that comes in one box and sets up in minutes. As such, it’s a total success, giving you an incredible amount of immersive audio for almost any listening you care to do, whether it’s a blockbuster movie soundtrack or a favorite album.
Is there a better alternative? Right now, if you want a complete, Dolby Atmos-capable soundbar with dedicated up-firing drivers, rear surrounds, and a wireless sub, you should probably be looking at the Vizio Elevate.
 For $1,000 (or less when it’s on sale), it’s a great value. But the Elevate doesn’t offer any kind of Wi-Fi connectivity, so it can’t provide the highest-quality music experience, it’s not compatible with any smart home platforms, and it can’t work as part of a multiroom system.
The LG S95QR, however, does all of these things, and that means there’s only one real competitor at this price — the recently released $1,900 Samsung HW-Q990B.
 We haven’t had a chance to try the Q990B, but judging by its specifications, it’s an almost feature-for-feature match for the S95QR, with one key exception: it lacks Chromecast built-in, which might just be the tie-breaker if you’re on the fence.
How long will it last? Soundbars, like most active speaker systems, should last as long as you need them to, and the S95QR is no exception. As time goes by, LG may not keep up with software updates, so it’s possible that some features that work today won’t work indefinitely — we’ve seen this with Sonos products in the past. Still, should this happen, it will most likely affect internet-connected features and not the S95QR’s core mission as a home theater solution that uses your TV as its primary source.
Should you buy it? Yes. For the price, there is no single soundbar system-in-a-box that offers as much bang for the buck as the LG S95QR.
Editors' Recommendations LG’s 2022 soundbars start at $400, pump out hi-res audio and 3D sound The LG S95QR Soundbar leads the way for a new audio line at CES Vizio 2021 soundbars go big on Dolby Atmos and HDMI eARC support Vizio reinvents its soundbar line, including an Atmos bar with rotating speakers Deezer launches Sony 360 Reality Audio with a new stand-alone app Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
