Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Plus review: you won’t believe your ears By Simon Cohen Close $1,500.00 Fantastic 3D sound Lots of connections Built-in room tuning Up to 4 wireless subs/1 wired sub AirPlay/Chromecast/Tidal Connect Alexa built-in Dolby Atmos/DTS:X Sony 360/MPEG-H Still expensive Only HDMI 2.0a Relies heavily on mobile app Weird Alexa integration When Sennheiser’s mighty Ambeo Soundbar debuted in 2018, it caught a lot of people off guard. Not only was it the company’s first soundbar — and not only did it cost $2,500,making it one of the most expensive you could buy — it blew reviewers away with its 3D Dolby Atmos capabilities.
Good packaging The subwoofer strategy Confusing LEDs The taste test Still, as impressive as it was, most pundits wondered whether we’d ever see a smaller, more accessible version that could still deliver on that Ambeo experience. It took a few years, but Sennheiser’s answer is here, in the form of the smaller and more affordable (though still expensive) $1,500 Ambeo Soundbar Plus.
Sennheiser’s Ambeo Soundbar Mini is a pricey, bedroom-sized Dolby Atmos speaker What is MPEG-H? The burgeoning 3D audio standard explained Marantz’s new Cinema series AV receivers are a stylish way to go 8K Now the only question is whether lightning has struck twice — or is this new Ambeo just another Dolby Atmos soundbar ? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Good packaging But before we get into the juicy bits about how this thing sounds, let’s cover some more functional ground. Sennheiser deserves major props for its packaging of the Ambeo Soundbar Plus. Everything right down to the protective wrapper that covers the speaker is made from easily recycled paper or cardboard, with the sole exception of the black plastic carry handle.
Inside that box, you’ll find a power cable, a premium certified HDMI cable , a remote control, and a quick start guide.
That’s everything you need to get going, but it’s not everything you need to know. Be prepared to go in search of the full manual on Sennheiser’s website if you want to understand all of the speaker’s settings and functions. There are a lot of them, and only some are intuitive enough to figure out on your own.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The soundbar itself is an understated affair — all black, low-slung, and ringed in acoustically transparent, charcoal-colored fabric. Its relatively short height is the biggest visual difference between the Ambeo Soundbar Plus and its newly renamed big brother, the gigantic Ambeo Soundbar Max. It’s not just about aesthetics. At 5.3 inches tall, a lot of folks probably avoided buying the Max because it would have blocked a portion of the bottom of their TVs. That should rarely be an issue with the Plus. If your TV is wall-mounted, the Ambeo Plus can join it, but you’ll need to buy the optional $50 bracket.
You’ll find touch controls and a wide LED strip indicator bar on the top surface, along with the microphone array that does double duty as both Alexa’s ears (optional) and the speaker’s room-calibration sensors.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The subwoofer strategy One of the perennial problems we’ve seen with flagship soundbars from companies like Bose, Sonos, and Bowers & Wilkins is a lack of HDMI inputs. They all use HDMI ARC/eARC to connect to a TV, but that always means giving up one of your TV’s precious few HDMI ports just so you can have great sound. The Ambeo Soundbar Plus has no such limitations. Not only does it offer two HDMI inputs in addition to its HDMI ARC/eARC port, but it also has discrete inputs for analog and digital optical devices You can connect any powered subwoofer to the Ambeo Soundbar — not just Sennheiser’s.
But let’s not heap too much praise on Sennheiser for this. All soundbars should have at least a single HDMI input. It’s also worth noting that those two HDMI inputs only support HDMI 2.0a , which means that if you want to do 4K gaming at 120Hz, variable refresh rate (VRR), or 8K, you’ll have to plug directly into your TV. Assuming, that is, your TV’s ARC/eARC port isn’t the only port that can handle these HDMI 2.1 features.
Still, the Ambeo Soundbar Plus’s ports will happily passthrough 4K at 60Hz and all HDR flavors including Dolby Vision, so all of your non-gaming, non-8K needs are met.
If you want to plug a streaming stick into one of these HDMI ports, there’s a conveniently located USB-A port for power. You can also use it for manual firmware updates, but that’s all it does.
Previous Next 1 4 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends My favorite feature, however, is the subwoofer pre-out. Sennheiser’s new $700 Ambeo Sub can connect to the Ambeo Soundbar Plus wirelessly — in fact, you can connect up to four Ambeo Subs wirelessly if you want — but both the soundbar and the sub also offer RCA jacks for wired connections.
This means you can connect any powered subwoofer to the Ambeo Soundbar — not just Sennheiser’s. You can’t do that with Bose, Sony, Sonos, or the vast majority of other soundbars.
As with most high-end soundbars, setting up the Ambeo is done via an app on your smartphone. It’s fast and easy thanks to the intuitive, step-by-step interface of Sennheiser’s Smart Control software. It gets the bar connected to your Wi-Fi (or you can use Ethernet if you happen to have a cable near your TV), performs the room calibration using the onboard mics, and then guides you through the optional steps for using Alexa as a voice assistant and using Google’s Chromecast built-in.
If you don’t already have a smart speaker in your TV room, you might want to take advantage of Alexa, but don’t skip the Chromecast setup. Whether you have an iPhone or an Android device, Chromecast is a better choice than both Bluetooth and Apple AirPlay for audio streaming if your app supports it. For CD-quality tracks, there’s no real benefit, but if you’ve got access to lossless, hi-res audio from streaming services like Apple Music, Amazon Music, Qobuz, or Deezer, Chromecast will preserve all of that extra detail.
The app is by far the easiest way to access the Ambeo’s functions and settings, but here’s a pro tip: if you don’t want to use it, or you don’t own a device that’s compatible with Sennheiser’s app, the soundbar also has a web interface you can access via a browser.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If you want, you can control the Ambeo Soundbar Plus just by using the app, but there’s also an included remote. It’s an unusually sturdy accessory. Most soundbar remotes (if the speaker comes with a remote at all) feel cheap, but this one has real heft to it. Unfortunately there’s no backlight, so you may struggle to use it in the dark.
You may also struggle with the way Sennheiser has chosen to implement volume muting. Instead of a dedicated mute button, muting is controlled via the “O” multifunction button, which, given its position on the remote and its icon, could easily be mistaken for a power button.
The Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Plus is the Penn & Teller of the Dolby Atmos Soundbar world.
If your audio is coming from your TV or one of the soundbar inputs, a single press of that button mutes the audio. However, if you’re streaming from Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or Spotify/Tidal Connect, the single press acts as a pause (press it again to play).
OK, so far so good. It’s a bit unusual, but once you get used to it, it works well. But that’s the control scheme if you aren’t using the Soundbar Plus as an Alexa smart speaker. If you choose to activate Amazon’s voice assistant, the multifunction button goes through a metamorphosis, whereby a single press activates Alexa, and if you want to use the button’s previous muting and playback features, these now require three-second-long presses. I don’t know about you, but I just don’t have the patience to wait three seconds to control volume or playback.
Previous Next 1 4 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Confusing LEDs I’m also confused by the way the soundbar provides visual feedback. That top-mounted LED strip is quite the versatile indicator, with a variety of colors and animations for things like volume, mode, muting, etc. But because of its position — set toward the back edge — you may not be able to see it at all. Ideally, it should be front and center, located where the Sennheiser word mark appears, right under the grille — the exact place Sennheiser placed the OLED display on the Soundbar Max.
The speaker also can confirm when it’s receiving Dolby Atmos or DTS:X signals, but these tiny indicators are even harder to see. They sit on the top surface, behind the raised front edge of the grille, which obscures them unless you’re looking down at them. The Ambeo mode indicator, however, is very easy to see: it sits in the lower-right front corner.
The included quick-start guide offers a guide to many of these features — if you can decipher the Ikea-esque pictograms necessitated by the multi-anguage nature of the pamphlet. But to understand and use the Ambeo’s deeper features, you will absolutely need to consult the full instructions. Since Sennheiser doesn’t include them in the box or link to them from the Smart Control app, here are links to the downloadable version and the web-based version.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Now, let’s talk about the sound. Overall, the Ambeo Soundbar Plus is a sonic delight. There’s enough power on tap to envelop even the largest of rooms. In fact, it can get so loud, if you’re in a smaller to medium-sized room, be careful — we’re talking potentially harmful levels at the upper end of the range.
The twin built-in subwoofers are no match for dedicated subs, but they are as good or better at delivering low-end bass as any other single soundbar I’ve heard, with the possible exception of the Bang & Olufsen Beosound Stage and the Ambeo Soundbar Max.
Sennheiser was kind enough to lend me an Ambeo wireless sub to try with the new bar, and as you’d expect, it provided plenty of cinematic rumble. But unless you want to take advantage of that wireless connection or the Ambeo’s ability to manage four of these bad boys simultaneously, you might be better off spending that Ambeo Sub money ($700) on a wired sub of your choosing.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Good Dolby Atmos soundbars have top-notch acoustic components (the drivers, amplifiers, etc.), and a sufficient number of drivers to project sound around a room. Great Dolby Atmos soundbars, on the other hand, also have the kind of software — or digital signal processing (DSP) if you want to get technical about it — that can give a rectangular box of drivers the ability to fool your ears into thinking you’ve got a room full of speakers. And the Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Plus is the Penn & Teller of the Dolby Atmos Soundbar world.
With the exception of the Ambeo Soundbar Max, I don’t think you can get a more immersive audio experience from a single speaker than the Ambeo Soundbar Plus. It’s certainly true when you feed it multichannel object-based surround sound formats like Dolby Atmos or DTS:X, but it can be just as thrilling when listening to 5.1, 7.1, or even good ol’ two-channel stereo.
The secret sauce is Sennheiser’s Ambeo mode, which supercharges 3D formats and “upscales” non-3D formats. Using the information gathered during the room calibration step, it attempts to place so-called phantom speakers around your room in a 7.1.4 configuration (front, surround, rear, height, and a subwoofer). It works brilliantly.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The taste test Two of my favorite recent Atmos torture tests — the initial sandworm sequence from Denis Villeneuve’s Dune and the Aston Martin chase/shootout sequence from No Time To Die — passed with flying colors. The eerie whispering voices young Paul Atreides experiences as he’s engulfed in a spice-saturated sand cloud, float around the room like disembodied ghosts. And as the camera pulls back on a cornered James Bond, it passes through a set of three tolling bells (don’t ask for whom the bell tolls), which dutifully move from either side of you to the front of the room, echoing overhead as they go.
These are the effects that make Dolby Atmos so enjoyable, and why you need a highly capable soundbar to hear them. Just as important, the dialogue remains clear and distinct, a critical test for any TV speaker.
If there’s one thing that could make the Ambeo Soundbar Plus even better, it would be if Sennheiser offered a set of matching wireless surround speakers. Sony, Bose, and Sonos have this as an option, and LG, Samsung, and Vizio package their flagship soundbars with them.
I’m not saying that the Ambeo system needs them, but there’s a natural limit to just how much of a true, 360-degree sound field can be generated by virtualization alone.
As a technology, Ambeo isn’t unique. Sony does something very similar on its $1,300 HT-A7000 via that speaker’s Immersive AE (IAE) mode. I think Ambeo is superior, at least for movies and TV content. When it comes to music, IAE offers a more natural sound. If at any point you don’t like what the Ambeo processing is doing, you can disable it with a single button press on the remote.
But this brings us to a key differentiator between the Ambeo Soundbar Plus and most of the competition: EQ settings. Most soundbars offer “modes” — think of them as presets designed to help you get the most out of specific kinds of content. On the Ambeo, they are Neutral, Movie, Music, News, Sports, and Adaptive. The first five are self-explanatory, while the sixth is an autopilot mode that reacts to whatever you’re listening to.
On other speakers, the modes are static. You either like what they do to the sound or you don’t. Sennheiser makes no such assumptions about its tuning. Each mode lets you tweak its specific sound signature with a four-band EQ, plus you can decide how strong the Ambeo effect should be when Ambeo mode is engaged: light, regular, or boost.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Better still, the soundbar will remember which of these modes you last used on an input-by-input basis. So if you mostly watch sports via your TV, movies via your streaming stick, and music via the optical port, you can set those preferences once, and then forget about them.
On the music side of the equation, the Ambeo Soundbar Plus is a solid performer. As with most soundbars, it won’t replace a dedicated set of high-quality stereo speakers. Instead, think of it as a more immersive way to experience two-channel sound and a great way to experience multichannel music like Dolby Atmos Music.
This is when those deeper Ambeo and EQ-based settings really come in handy. Boost-level Ambeo is way too much — it can cause some really unpleasant peakiness in the higher frequencies. But light level is very enjoyable, and with some EQ experimentation, I suspect you’ll be able to get things dialed in just the way you like them.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I’m a little less enthusiastic about the music management side of things. The speaker has no shortage of connection and format choices: AirPlay, Chromecast built-in , Bluetooth, Tidal and Spotify Connect, and Sony’s 360 Reality Audio (360RA) — not bad at all. As long as you’re content to use third-party streaming music apps on your smartphone, maybe that’s enough.
But unless you use Google Home or Amazon Alexa, there’s no built-in way to do multiroom audio. The Smart Connect app has no option for accessing your personal music library, and the Bluetooth connection is limited to SBC and AAC codecs.
The Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Plus might not be as expandable as Sonos or Bose, it might not possess Sony’s support for advanced gaming and 8K content, and it suffers from a few usability issues. But it delivers an absolutely astonishing immersive 3D performance, it has plenty of connectivity options, and it’s one of the few soundbars that lets you choose your own subwoofer.
If you want to install a single speaker that will blow your mind without blowing out your bank account, this is your next soundbar.
Editors' Recommendations The best Dolby Atmos soundbars for 2023 DTS Play-Fi wireless audio adds support for Dolby Atmos, DTS:X Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Plus hit by unforeseen technical delay Sennheiser’s killer Ambeo soundbar now has a smaller, cheaper sibling Bang & Olufsen’s latest soundbar costs a fortune, but it might be the last one you ever own Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Speakers Audio / Video Sennheiser is rolling out a major software update for owners of its Ambeo soundbars. Known as Ambeo OS, once installed, it will add Apple AirPlay 2, Spotify Connect, and Tidal Connect capabilities to these massive home theater speakers. Since the Ambeo already supported Chromecast built-in, it now works with virtually all wireless streaming technologies and providers.
The German audio brand is also releasing an update of its Smart Control mobile app, which can now connect to the Ambeo over Wi-Fi, instead of Bluetooth, which the company says will provide a faster and more responsive user experience. Smart Control can be used to adjust a variety of settings on the Ambeo, including EQ parameters. However, Ambeo OS also introduces a new, web-based interface that lets folks exert that same level of control from any computer that sits on the same home network.
Audio / Video During a virtual press event that was primarily intended to launch the company's latest in-ear monitors (IEMs), Sennheiser executives also dropped two much-anticipated teasers: We'll see the Momentum True Wireless 3 launch as its new flagship wireless earbuds, and there will also be a new and considerably smaller version of the Ambeo Dolby Atmos soundbar. No details on either product were provided, but Sennheiser indicated that the new Ambeo soundbar would be more accessible pricewise when compared to the $2,000 the company asks for its current beast of a bar.
IE 600 The bulk of the event was dedicated to discussing Sennheiser's new entry into the audiophile market with the IE 600, a $700 set of IEMs that will be available this spring/summer. Made from 3D-printed amorphous zirconium, a metal with a glass-like atomic structure, they possess a very distinctive, beaten-metal look. But it's not just about style. Sennheiser claims the exotic metal, which has been used by NASA on its Mars rovers, offers "triple the hardness and bend resistance of high-performance steel," making it a very tough material. This provides both protection from damage, as well as precise housing for the IE 600's internal components.
Audio / Video Last year, Vizio seriously impressed us with its Elevate, Atmos-enabled soundbar, so when the company announced its full 2021 lineup, we were excited to see what it had to offer. While the Vizio brand may conjure images of affordable TVs, the company has a strong foothold in the audio industry as well and has been particularly successful with soundbars.
So, how will Vizio follow up on the innovative, Elevate soundbar that scored a 9 out of 10 on our review and challenges the Sonos Arc for the title of best soundbar on the market? Let's dig in and take a look at the entire 2021 lineup so you can determine if any of these models deserve a spot beneath your television.
The Elevate Soundbar Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
