Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sonos Era 100 review: bigger sound, better features By Simon Cohen Close $249.00 Big, expansive sound Bluetooth now built-in Optional analog line-in Super-easy room tuning No Google Assistant option The venerable Sonos One — the company’s most popular wireless speaker and the basis for many wireless home audio systems — is about to be no more. In its place, the new Era 100 ($249), a similar-looking speaker that has a lot more going on inside, including a much-requested Bluetooth connection and the ability to produce stereo sound.
Familiar lines Better controls Not quite as smart But way better connected Still so easy Expansive sound Consider the competition Is the Era 100 a worthy successor to the One? Let’s dig in. And then be sure to check out our Sonos Era 300 review.
Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update Best Bluetooth speaker deals: Save on Bose, Sonos, JBL, and more The best Bluetooth speakers for 2023: Marshall, Sonos, JBL, and more Familiar lines The old Sonos One ($219) in black, and the new Sonos Era 100 ($249) in white.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends One of the best features of the Sonos One is its ability to produce great audio from a relatively small enclosure that can be tucked into a corner, or hidden in a bookshelf. It’s also found a home in a lot of kitchens where its voice assistants come in handy when you’re busy with food prep. The Era 100 mostly sticks to this successful formula.
It stands about an inch taller than the Sonos One and has a more cylindrical shape. But its overall footprint remains the same and lets it occupy all of the same spaces, so long as there’s still headroom.
If the Era 100 is your first Sonos speaker, I think you’ll unreservedly love it.
Sonos has been gradually evolving the look of its products away from materials like fabrics and metal in favor of an all-plastic construction, and this makes the Era 100 even more kitchen- and bathroom-friendly. Available in Sonos’ two standard color options — black or white — the finish has just the tiniest amount of sheen, making it smooth enough to wipe clean, while the plastic grille should be able to survive scratches and impacts better than the One’s metal grille.
Fans of the original Sonos Play:1 (the model before the Sonos One) will be happy to see that a standard quarter-inch threaded mounting hole makes a return on the Era 100 (the Sonos One and One SL lacked this element), opening the door to a variety of stand- and wall-mounting options that don’t require an unsightly clamp design. Sonos sells both of these accessories for the Era 100, starting at $69 for a single wall mount.
The matching power cord still plugs into the bottom and sits flush with the surface, but Sonos made the plug circular, with a deep groove, making it a little easier to remove.
Better controls Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Touch controls can work well. But once you start to include gestures like swiping to the left or right, you might encounter problems. That was the case on the Sonos One, which required swipes over the volume controls to skip or repeat a track. Sometimes it worked, sometimes it didn’t — and sometimes it ended up changing the volume instead.
The Era 100’s reworked top control panel fixes this by making track and volume control totally separate. You can still bump the volume up and down one increment at a time by tapping on the plus and minus controls (or tap and hold), but there’s now a volume slider, too, which lets you drag a finger along a groove until you find the level you want.
It’s a nice addition that works well, but I wish Sonos had found a way to illuminate the controls. As on the Sonos One, the Era 100’s touch indicators can be hard to see when they’re not in direct light, and almost impossible to find in a dimly lit room.
Not quite as smart Unfortunately, due to an ongoing dispute between Sonos and Google, the Era 100 doesn’t support Google Assistant for voice commands. This could be a temporary, or a longer-term situation as Sonos tries to maintain its platform-agnostic approach to voice assistants while at the same time continuing to develop its own in-house Sonos Voice Control (SVC) system.
So for now, the Era 100 can only be used to talk to Amazon Alexa and SVC, which should be kept in mind if you’re contemplating an upgrade from the Sonos One, which can access all three voice assistants.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends On the literal bright side, there’s now a tiny LED light behind the grille just above the Sonos logo that gives you a visual confirmation when you say “Alexa,” or “Hey, Sonos.” That’s a major improvement over the Sonos One, which only had top-mounted feedback lights — impossible to see if you had the speaker placed anywhere higher than shoulder height.
The Era 100 keeps the One’s simple tap-to-mute microphone control. But for added privacy control there’s also a switch on the back of the speaker that lets you physically cut the mic array’s circuits. (Other smart speakers have done this, too.) Given that Sonos hasn’t announced any plans for mic-less “SL” variant of the Era 100, it’s a fair guess that the company believes this new privacy switch should be enough to calm the fears of those who don’t like it when their devices listen 24/7.
When in use, the microphone array does a good job of responding to voice commands as long as the Era 100 is the only source of music in the room. If you happen to have a different sound system going (like a kitchen TV) it can sometimes struggle. At the time of my review, Alexa wasn’t fully functional on the Era 100, but Sonos Voice Control worked without a hitch.
But way better connected Bluetooth is as simple as pressing a button on the back of the Era 100.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Era 100 makes some pretty big strides in the sound department, which I’ll get to in a moment. But from a pragmatic point of view, the biggest change is Sonos’ long-awaited embrace of Bluetooth for wireless audio streaming and the ability to connect an external audio source.
Thankfully, Sonos didn’t just bolt Bluetooth onto the Era 100 the way it did with the Sonos Move.
 Using Bluetooth with that speaker disables Wi-Fi, leaving you unable to control the speaker with the Sonos app. The Era 100, by contrast, uses the same approach as the newer Sonos Roam.
 Enabling Bluetooth while you’re still within range of your Wi-Fi network lets any Bluetooth device connect to the speaker and start streaming audio while preserving the ability to control the speaker’s settings via the Sonos app.
You can finally connect a turntable to an affordable Sonos speaker.
Better yet, you can then group the Era with any (or all) other Sonos speakers in your home, and that Bluetooth stream will play through all of them simultaneously.
Using the feature couldn’t be easier. Simply long-press the Bluetooth button on the speaker’s back panel — a much better location than on the Roam — and wait for that front LED indicator to pulse blue, then look for the Era to appear in your phone’s Bluetooth devices menu.
If at any point you want to terminate that Bluetooth stream, you can do so within the Sonos app, use a voice command, or just press the Bluetooth button again.
You can also use the Era 100’s Bluetooth connection on its own, without Wi-Fi, but only after the initial set-up process (using Wi-Fi) is finished, so don’t expect it to act as a Bluetooth speaker right out of the box.
The Sonos Era 100 has a physical switch that kills the microphone if you don’t want it listening. Below, is a USB-C port shown with the optional analog line-in adapter.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Despite the Era’s ability to do hi-res audio in up to 24-bit/48kHz over Wi-Fi, its Bluetooth skills are more pedestrian: only SBC and AAC Bluetooth codecs are supported. If you listen closely, you’ll hear a difference — Bluetooth streams don’t sound quite as detailed as their Sonos app equivalents, especially when listening to lossless audio tracks.
For those who want a higher-quality stream that’s not regulated by the Sonos app, you still have options: Spotify Connect, Tidal Connect, and AirPlay 2 (though that last one is only for Apple devices).
Keen observers will note that, unlike every previous Sonos home wireless speaker, there’s no Ethernet port on the back of the Era. In its place, a USB-C port now acts as a potential universal connector. At launch, you can choose between a 3.5mm line-in adapter ($19) for external music sources or a combo adapter that adds an Ethernet jack next to the line-in port ($39).
This is great news for vinyl fans — you can finally connect a turntable to a (relatively) affordable Sonos speaker. Previously your only choices were pricey ($449 Port , $549 Five ) or very pricey ($699 Amp ). You’ll still need a preamp to do so (and probably a stereo RCA-to-3.5mm patch cord), but once connected you can pick that line-in source from any Sonos speaker in your system — no need to group them with the Era 100 to hear the audio.
For now, Sonos is only offering an analog line-in adapter, but I’m holding out hope that a digital option will be available in the future.
Still so easy If you’ve never set up a Sonos speaker, you’re in for one of the easiest procedures in the tech world. Once you’ve downloaded the Sonos app and created your account, simply plugging the Era 100 into a power outlet is all it takes to kick off a rapid, 2-minute-or-less set of steps that gets the speaker connected to Wi-Fi and ready to play.
If you’re adding the Era 100 to an existing Sonos system, it’s even faster. For a full rundown on everything a Sonos system can do, check out our in-depth Sonos explainer.
The Era 100 gets a new version of Sonos’ room-tuning Trueplay technology that leverages the speaker’s built-in mic to perform the calibration. This is the only method of Trueplay that’s available to Android users (the “advanced” version needs an iPhone). I was concerned that this “quick tuning” version would be less capable. But after trying both versions of Trueplay on the Era 100, I can’t say I could hear an appreciable difference, and the quick tuning process is much faster than advanced tuning.
Expansive sound Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Enough about features. Let’s talk sound.
Sonos has proven once again that it can extract magical amounts of sound from a tiny speaker. This was true of the Sonos One, but with the Era 100, Sonos has pushed the boundaries even further. Thanks to its twin angled tweeters, it creates an impressive sense of openness. Compared to the Era 100’s airy and expansive soundstage, the Sonos One sounds narrow and a bit constrained. This makes the Era 100 an excellent single-speaker solution for most rooms.
Sonos has increased the size of the woofer on the Era 100. And as you might expect, that gives it a bigger, bolder bass response. Sonos speakers always have punched above their weight in the bass department, but what I noticed most was how much more melodic that bass can be with a speaker like the Era 100. Instead of delivering a formless thump, there’s real nuance to the low-end, which you can hear on tracks like Hans Zimmer’s Time and Warming Up My Instruments.
Out of the box, you may not find the bass quite as pronounced as it is on the Sonos One. But if you reach into the EQ settings, you’ll find that even a few increased notches on the bass slider make a huge difference.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If the Era 100 is your first Sonos speaker, I think you’ll love it, unreservedly. But for those who are already intimately familiar with the Sonos One, I have a few observations.
If you set these speakers side by side and sit directly in front of them, you may find the Era 100 sounds less precise in the higher frequencies, especially with vocals and acoustic performances like U2’s recently released Songs of Surrender album. I think that’s because the Era’s tweeters aren’t aimed directly at you, while the One’s single tweeter is aimed front and center.
At first, I wasn’t sure if I was OK with this difference. But the more I listened to the Era — and especially as I wandered around the room, listening from different locations — I began to really appreciate the way the Era distributes sound. It’s less directional, but in most situations that works in its favor.
Unfortunately, I was only able to test a single Era 100, so I can’t speak to its performance when set up as a stereo pair. But I did get a chance to do this with the new Era 300, and if that experience is any indication, I suspect a set of Era 100s will prove to be an amazing listen.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Consider the competition A quick look at the competition: there are only three products that I think come close enough to the Sonos Era 100 to be worth serious consideration.
The Bluesound Pulse Flex 2i ($299) can go toe-to-toe with the Era 100 on connections like Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, AirPlay 2, and it even has a combo digital/analog input that doesn’t require a dongle. Plus it supports hi-res audio up to 24-bit/192kHz. However, it’s more expensive, it doesn’t offer any smart speaker functions, it doesn’t reproduce stereo, and the Bluesound app is still not as powerful or as easy to use as Sonos.
The Denon Home 150 Wireless Speaker ($249) matches the Era’s price, Bluetooth, AirPlay 2, and Alexa smart speaker capabilities, and like the Pulse Flex it can do hi-res and comes with a built-in analog input, and even has a USB port for music hard drives, but it’s also a mono speaker and the Denon HEOS app is considerably clunkier than the Sonos app.
Bose’s Smart Speaker 500 ($379) might just be the best of the three, with true stereo sound, your choice of Google Assistant or Amazon Alexa, Bluetooth, AirPlay 2, Chromecast , an analog input, and even a built-in color screen to display album art. But the Bose Music app is the weakest of the bunch, with very limited music service support. It’s also 50% more expensive than the Era 100.
I’ll also include Apple’s HomePod Gen 2 , if for no reason other than, well, Apple. At $299 the HomePod is a bit more expensive, but it produces better sound than the Era 100, especially in the low end. It’s even compatible with Dolby Atmos Music.
 Where the HomePod falls short is in the details: no Bluetooth, no ability to line in other sources, no wall-mount options, extremely limited app support via the Apple Home app, and you only get one choice of voice assistant: Siri.
Even though Sonos has priced the Era 100 a bit higher than the Sonos One it replaces ($249 versus $219), there’s more than enough built into this speaker to justify the extra $30. With better, more immersive sound, available Bluetooth connections, Trueplay tuning that’s now super fast and works even if you’re on an Android device, and the ability to connect an external source like a turntable, the Era 100 is both an excellent first step into wireless home audio and a welcome addition to an existing Sonos system. The only caveat that may give you pause is its current lack of Google Assistant as an AI voice option.
Editors' Recommendations Tivoli Audio’s Model Two Digital speaker abandons terrestrial radio JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans Best wireless speakers for 2023: Sonos, Apple, KEF, and more Android users are about to lose a handy Sonos feature Sonos could soon be the soundtrack for your next shopping trip Product Reviews Sonos Speaker Reviews Audio / Video Looking for a smart speaker that doesn't look like a smart speaker? Look no further than Pantheone Audio's Obsidian. The Australian company is no stranger to creating speakers that double as works of art. Its debut product, the $2,750 Pantheone I would look at home in a gallery, and the $1,399 Obsidian makes a similar statement, only on a smaller, portable scale.
For its smarts, the Obsidian (which comes in black or white) leans on Amazon Alexa, but it's also a well-featured wireless multiroom speaker that can connect via Wi-Fi, AirPlay 2, or Bluetooth, plus it has a 3.5mm analog audio input for sources like turntables. In addition to an on/off switch, there are illuminated front touch controls for Alexa, playback, and volume.
Audio / Video The best Bluetooth speakers come in all shapes and sizes and are suited for various listening preferences, from on-the-go pool parties to stay-at-home listening sessions. Some are big and some are incredibly tiny, and the same can be said for their prices, but if you're here, you're in the market for a Bluetooth speaker under $100 that sounds good, but won't empty your wallet.
Luckily, there are tons of choices out there, so we've put together a list of some of the speakers we think are the best in this price range. When choosing, we looked at things like battery life, size, ruggedness, water and dust resistance (or waterproofing), sound quality, bass, volume, and other fun things like voice assistants or an ability to pair them with other speakers for bigger sound.
Audio / Video If you’re thinking of buying the new Sonos Era 300 — the company’s first smart speaker designed specifically for spatial audio with Dolby Atmos Music — and you’re not currently an Amazon Music subscriber, listen up: you definitely need to consider switching from whatever music streaming service you’re currently using.
Don’t worry, I’m not getting a kickback from Jeff Bezos for saying that. It’s a simple matter of compatibility and audio quality. And, unfortunately for services like Spotify, Apple Music, YouTube Music, and Tidal, none of those services can provide a speaker like the Era 300 with the same level of support as Amazon Music. At least, not for the immediate future.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
