Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sonos Sub Mini review: The low-end finally costs less By Simon Cohen Close $429.00 Elegant design Super-simple setup Highly versatile Satisfying low-end bass Still relatively expensive Won't rock your sofa Sonos finally has a subwoofer that doesn’t cost as much as its flagship soundbar, and the world is a better place because of it. Well, a better place for Sonos fans at least, who now have the option of buying the $429 Sonos Sub Mini , a wireless subwoofer that can be paired with almost any Sonos speaker or component.
A smaller sub Stirred, not shaken Turn it on, tune it in Worth it for some Frankly, it shouldn’t have taken Sonos a decade (the first-gen Sonos Sub debuted in 2012) to take this step. But now that it’s here, the Sub Mini gets a lot of points just for existing.
Android users are about to lose a handy Sonos feature Bluetooth on Sonos’ new Era speakers isn’t what you think – it’s better Sonos’ new Era 100 and Era 300 wireless speakers go all-in on spatial audio and Bluetooth A smaller sub Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Design-wise, this is exactly what I’ve come to expect from Sonos. It’s simple and elegant and available in your choice of matte black or matte white, just like the rest of the company’s latest wireless speakers and soundbars — but very different from the gloss-white or piano-black finish on the Sonos Sub.
No, this sub doesn’t seek the spotlight like its larger sibling. Its cylindrical shape is short enough and narrow enough to blend into any room. By using the same dual, horizontally opposed driver design as the Sonos Sub, the Mini’s body exhibits very little in the way of vibrations, even when pumping out copious amounts of low-end frequencies. So yes, go ahead and put a vase or some other decor item on top — the perfectly flat surface practically begs to be used as a stand.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The central slot gives the Mini some great visual interest, should you want to call attention to the speaker, but it will work just as well regardless of which way you orient it. So if you think the slot might prove too great of a temptation for the small hands in your household, feel free to make it a little less accessible (though try to avoid sticking the Mini deep in a corner as this might affect the sound).
The low-end produced by this compact speaker is still plenty powerful.
The Mini’s size also is the key to its greatest strength (other than price): It’s incredibly versatile. There’s versatility of placement, to be sure, but also versatility of sound. The original Sub is a truck — a heavy and high-powered speaker capable of powering larger home theater setups centered around the Sonos Arc or the older Playbar.
 The Mini is more like a hatchback — the perfect complement to a variety of setups including smaller soundbars like the Beam and the Ray , but also the growing number of smaller speakers like the One , One SL, and the Ikea-branded Symfonisk Bookshelf , Table Lamp , and Picture Frame speakers.
Sonos Sub Mini (left) and Sonos One.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If you have multiple rooms with Sonos speakers, you can even move the Mini from room to room effortlessly. Just go into the Sonos app, pick your room, and choose the Connect Sub option. Within a minute or two, you’re good to go. The only catch? It can’t be paired with either of Sonos’ portable speakers, the Move or the Roam.
Stirred, not shaken So how does it sound? Pretty fantastic, considering its size.
Keep in mind, it’s not going to rattle your windows or shake your sofa, but the low-end produced by this compact speaker is still plenty powerful. In a small-to-medium-sized room, it can give your favorite Hollywood blockbusters the kind of visceral punch they’ve been missing if you’ve been relying on just a Sonos soundbar.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Tron: Legacy might not have won many accolades for its storyline, but the soundtrack is an absolute bass-fest, filled with constant low-frequency sound effects and music. Without a subwoofer, even the Sonos Arc fails to give you the full experience, but add the Sub Mini and you’re suddenly right there in the midst of the movie’s light cycles and disc tournaments.
Action movies and shows always do better with more low-end, but even less dynamic fare — shows such as Better Call Saul or Fargo — can benefit from the grounding a sub like the Mini can provide.
I’ve always been mightily impressed with how much bass the tiny Sonos Play:1/One/One SL can produce, and never really felt the need for a subwoofer while listening to them. But drop the Sub Mini in, whether you’ve got a single speaker in mono mode or a stereo pair, and you will notice the extra presence it gives your tunes, whether your tastes veer toward classical or hip-hop.
Turn it on, tune it in But here’s a pro tip: Even though Sonos makes it laughably easy to add the Sub Mini to your system, you’ll want to make some adjustments to make sure you’re getting the most from this speaker. Subwoofers are fantastic add-ons, but they can also create some unpleasant sounds if they’re not managed well.
For most Sonos owners, the Sub Mini is going to be the hands down best choice.
First up, after you add the Sub Mini to a room, be sure to use the Sonos Trueplay feature. It automatically balances the Mini and your existing speakers for your room’s acoustics. That may sound like a “well, whatever” statement, but trust me, it will sound way better once you do it. Unfortunately, Trueplay is still an iPhone-only feature. So if you’re an Android user, you can either borrow an iPhone from a friend (Trueplay settings stay with your system once they’re applied) or you’ll need to play with both the position of the Sub Mini and the phase controls in the Sonos app to find a sound you like.
Second, you’ll want to take advantage of the separate EQ and subwoofer level adjustments. Think of it this way: the subwoofer level controls how much of that low-end sound you want to hear. Keeping it set to the midpoint means it acts as an accent, giving your audio an extra layer of depth. Push it higher and you will start to feel that extra bass both in your ears and possibly your chest too.
The EQ, on the other hand, lets you decide on the overall tonal balance of the whole speaker setup, with an emphasis on more or less bass and treble.
Sonos’ advice, which I think makes a lot of sense, is to first adjust the sub level, and then the EQ.
Worth it for some You may be wondering if the Sub Mini is worth its $429 price. It — wait for it — depends. Sorry, I know that’s probably not what you’re looking for. But here’s the reality. If you already own Sonos speakers and especially if you own one of the company’s soundbars, you only have two options if you want to add a subwoofer (the $749 Sub or the $429 Sub Mini). For most Sonos owners, the Sub Mini is going to be the hands down best choice and totally worth the extra investment, unless you happen to have a really big space to fill.
This brings us to a small, but annoying downside to the Mini. Unlike the full-size Sub, you can’t run two Minis in one room. For most folks, this is irrelevant, but there are good reasons why you might want to run two subwoofers , which I won’t get into here. But I digress … You buy Sonos for the whole package. That package now has extra low-end punch for a lot less than it used to cost.
On the other hand, if you aren’t yet steeped in the Sonos ecosystem, let’s look at some numbers. The least expensive, sub-equipped Sonos home theater system is the Ray/Sub Mini combo ($279 plus $429 for a total of $708), and it can’t do Dolby Atmos even if you add surround speakers. To get into Atmos territory, you’re looking at the Gen 2 Beam/Sub Mini for $878, but keep in mind, it’s a weak form of Atmos when compared to soundbars that have dedicated up-firing height drivers, something the Beam doesn’t possess.
And honestly, for about the same price, you can get a Dolby Atmos-capable system from Vizio like the Elevate or M-Series Elevate , that will blow the doors off either of these Sonos systems if it’s purely movie magic you’re looking for.
In other words, just because Sonos now has the more affordable Sub Mini, it doesn’t mean that a Sonos home theater system is now a better choice — it just means it’s a more affordable choice than it used to be.
But Sonos has never been a system you buy because it’s going to compete purely on sound for the money. With its elegant and simple, yet very powerful software, its painless setup, its incredible versatility for all kinds of audio listening, and its nearly infinitely expandable architecture, you buy Sonos for the whole package. And that package now has a great way to add extra low-end punch to any room in the house, for a lot less than it used to cost. Finally.
Editors' Recommendations Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update Sonos could soon be the soundtrack for your next shopping trip What is Sonos? What you need to know about the wireless music system Sonos teases upcoming launch of the Era generation New Sonos speakers apparently confirmed by accessory company Product Reviews Sonos Soundbar Reviews Speaker Reviews Audio / Video With no fanfare of any kind, not even a press release, Bose launched its Bose Music Amplifier in October 2022 -- and we only just became aware of it. It's hard to say why the company decided to take such a stealthy approach, except maybe it wanted all of the attention on its Smart Soundbar 600, which hit retail at the same time. One look at the Music Amplifier and its price ($699) and it's immediately obvious that it has been designed as a direct competitor to the $699 Sonos Amp, as the similarities are unmistakable.
Like the Sonos Amp, the Bose Music Amplifier is an all-in-one wireless audio component for those who already own (or intend to buy) a set of wired speakers. In fact, as long as you don't mind listening to the same thing, you can power two pairs of wired speakers from the Music Amplifier, like a set of ceiling speakers and a set of bookshelf units. With 125 watts per channel (same as the Sonos Amp), there should be plenty of power for two sets, as long as you pay attention to the impedance requirements: with a single set, no less than 4 ohms will work, but if you throw in that extra set, all four speakers should be no less than 8 ohms.
Audio / Video Victrola, a company that's best-known for its affordable and fun retro and suitcase-style record players, has created a new turntable designed expressly for vinyl fans who also own Sonos wireless speakers. The $800 Victrola Stream Carbon looks nothing like the company's other models, with a minimalist, clean style and a distinctive, illuminated volume knob. Under the hood, it has something that no other turntable currently offers: a way to connect directly to Sonos speakers over Wi-Fi or Ethernet, with no middle-man hardware like the Sonos Port.
Once it's set up, the Stream Carbon will show up in the Sonos app as an audio source, which can be played across any speakers or other components in your Sonos system. You can change the volume using the Sonos app, or with that cool volume knob on the Stream's front panel.
Audio / Video Following months of speculation, Sonos has announced the Sub Mini, a smaller and more affordable wireless subwoofer that works with the company's collection of wireless speakers and soundbars. It will be available starting October 6, in both black and white versions, for $429.
The new addition to the Sonos lineup is targeted at those with small-to-medium-sized rooms who want better low-end sound. It will be particularly well-suited to people who own the company's smaller soundbars like the Sonos Beam and Sonos Ray, for which the existing $749 Sonos Sub was a poor match both in price and power. In true Sonos fashion, you'll be able to pair the Sub Mini with almost any combination of Sonos products, with the exception of the company's portable speakers, the Move, and the Roam.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
