Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Sonos Voice Control hands-off review: Now we’re talking By Simon Cohen Close Sonos has launched its own voice assistant, known as Sonos Voice Control , and you can enable it on any voice-capable Sonos product in your home. It’s not the first time Sonos users have been able to issue voice commands to their speakers — Alexa has been available since 2017 when Sonos launched its first true smart speaker, the Sonos One.
Adding Sonos Voice Control Setting a default music service Speaking with Sonos Mostly quick responses Command and control Conclusion But Sonos Voice Control is a different beast than Alexa and Google Assistant.
 Is it better, worse, or simply an alternative to Amazon and Google’s AIs? Here’s what it’s like to use it.
Adding Sonos Voice Control Setting up Sonos Voice Control on your compatible Sonos speakers is a snap — exactly as you’d expect from a company that has made simplicity central to its experience for almost two decades.
Google Nest Mini hands-on review: New name, few changes Ikea creates a physical remote control for Symfonisk and Sonos speakers You open the Sonos app, head into the Settings > Services & Voice menu, and tap Add a Voice Assistant.
 From there, the app guides you through a very quick and painless process for selecting the voice assistant you want (in this case, Sonos Voice Control) and the speaker(s) you want to add it to. (If you don’t see the option to add Sonos Voice Control, make sure you don’t have an ad-blocker active.) Sonos couldn’t have made a better choice for its voice assistant.
Curiously, if you previously had Google Assistant on the speaker you now want to work with Sonos Voice Control, the app will warn you that the two AIs can’t run on the same speaker simultaneously and that you’ll need to switch to Sonos or stay with Google.
The same isn’t true if you’re using Alexa. Apparently, Amazon is less restrictive in its licensing and doesn’t mind if Sonos shares its vocal real estate.
The whole thing takes less than 2 minutes, and the app then invites you to try out your new tool, by saying, “Hey, Sonos, play music.” After a brief pause, the assistant does just that. In my case, the speaker was on a paused playlist before I added Sonos Voice Control, so it simply resumed playback.
Setting a default music service Just like Alexa and Google Assistant, you can ask for streaming music services by name using Sonos Voice Control. But setting a default service means you can make your commands much shorter. Instead of saying, “Hey, Sonos, play Sting on Amazon Music,” you can simply say, “Hey, Sonos, play Sting.” Once you’ve set up Sonos Voice Control on at least one speaker, you can go back into the Settings > Services & Voice menu, tap Sonos Voice Control , then tap on Default Service.
 That brings up your list of compatible services. Unfortunately, not all services will work as a default.
When I tried it, Amazon Music , Apple Music , Deezer, and Sonos Radio (naturally) were available to me, but several others, including Tidal , Stitcher, SoundCloud, and, Spotify, SiriusXM, and Plex were grayed out, with the words “not compatible” next to them.
Speaking with Sonos Dan Baker/Digital Trends For Sonos Voice Control, the company enlisted the help of actor Giancarlo Esposito , who spent many hours in a recording studio, speaking a variety of phrases and words into a mic. Contrary to what you might think, this wasn’t to provide Sonos with a library of Esposito’s canned responses, to be played back at the appropriate moment. Instead, those recorded snippets provided the sonic DNA for a completely virtual version of Esposito’s voice.
Armed with that data, and a big helping of machine learning, Esposito has effectively become the voice of Sonos Voice Control, and will likely never need to record another word in order to keep the system going. It’s one thing for a company like Amazon or Google to create a synthetic voice for their assistants from scratch, but it’s entirely different when you hear a real, recognizable human voice — especially one with Esposito’s warm and reassuring tones. (More options will come later, Sonos has said.) I’ve read many critiques of the use of female voices for our AIs , and indeed, all three major voice AI companies — Amazon, Apple, and Google — use female voices as their defaults. I won’t chime in on one side of that debate or the other, but I will say this: Sonos couldn’t have made a better choice for its voice assistant.
Mostly quick responses Simon Cohen/Digital Trends In general, using Sonos Voice Control produced quick responses, whether I was asking for a new song, getting the system to pause or resume, or changing volume levels. But some commands did take longer than expected.
For instance, using voice commands to group speakers, e.g. “Hey, Sonos, add Roam ” would result in a delay of about 5 to 7 seconds as the system reconfigured itself. The same was true when you asked for the opposite to happen, “Hey Sonos, ungroup all,” which also took a while to complete. I really appreciate that you can refer to either the speaker model (Roam), or its location (bathroom), and it works either way.
Interestingly, the system uses a short chime to indicate that it has heard you or that it has successfully completed a command, but it’s not consistent, and sometimes you don’t hear it at all. For instance, “Hey, Sonos, play The Rolling Stones,” produces a chime, followed by “Sounds great,” and then your music starts. But saying, “Hey, Sonos, ungroup all,” gave me a 15-second delay, during which the volume of the music playing dipped to almost zero, and then I got the chime. And saying, “Hey, Sonos, turn it up,” produced an instant bump in volume level, but no chime at all.
Command and control Sonos Roam (front) and Sonos Move Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos Voice Control hasn’t been envisioned as a general voice assistant, so virtually all of the available commands relate to Sonos functions like music playback and speaker management. One notable exception is, “Hey, Sonos, what time is it?” which produces, “It’s three-oh-nine pee em,” (or whatever time it is).
If you try to go outside of the system’s comfort zone, or if there’s a general error, you get a short two-tone error sound.
Everything you can say to Sonos Voice Control Sonos provides pretty much every option you could ask for. You can group and ungroup speakers, you can ask Sonos what song is playing, and you can direct it to play a variety of content from streaming music services. It will report on the Move or Roam’s battery levels, which you can ask for by name. On my Roam, I said, “Hey, Sonos, what’s the battery level on my Move ?” and it replied, “The Move is fully charged.” You can even set volume levels on specific speakers, e.g. “Hey, Sonos, set Kitchen to 25%.” It’s not perfect, however. During my testing over the course of a few hours on launch day, some bugs did pop up. I couldn’t get Sonos to play music from any service except for Amazon Music, which is the one I had set as my default. Saying, “Hey, Sonos, play Red Hot Chili Peppers on Apple Music,” caused it great confusion. I received an error tone followed by “Apple Music isn’t set up on your system. Go to the Sonos app to add it.” And yes, Apple Music was indeed already in my system.
The same thing happened when I tried Deezer. Other music services that I have on Sonos proved altogether incompatible, like Tidal and Spotify. When I tried, I was told, “Sorry, Tidal/Spotify isn’t available for Sonos Voice Control yet.” Sometimes, the system very amusingly misinterpreted what I was asking for.
I also discovered a bug where commands issued to a voice-enabled speaker simply wouldn’t work — not because the system was malfunctioning, but because I had changed the active speaker in the Sonos app’s System tab, which I guess meant that Sonos Voice Control thought I wanted to control the active speaker, not the speaker I was er, speaking to.
When I tried to pause the music that was playing in the Bathroom, by saying “Hey Sonos, pause,” to the Bathroom speaker, I was informed that no music was currently playing. Sure enough, the active speaker in the app — the Dining Room speaker — wasn’t playing anything. I guess the lesson here is to always mention the speaker you want to control in the voice command.
Some commands were simply hit and miss. On two occasions, I was able to successfully get the system to play stations from Sonos Radio HD by name. But other station requests were met with error messages like, “There was an error while trying to play that content. Please use the Sonos app.” When I asked, “Hey, Sonos, play chill beats on Sonos Radio,” it kicked me over to TuneIn and attempted to play a station called Chillout.
Sometimes, the system very amusingly misinterpreted what I was asking for. Amazon Music has a station called All 70s.
 When I said, “Hey, Sonos, play All Seventies,” it assumed I meant that I wanted to play music on “all” of my speakers, so it grouped them all. Then, realizing that maybe there was more it needed to do, it added, “There was an error while trying to play that content. Please use the Sonos app.” It was right around now that I started to feel a bit sorry for Esposito. He was trying very hard to give me what I wanted after all.
In another attempt at playing an Amazon Music station, I said, “Hey, Sonos, play mellow seventies gold,” (no, I don’t know why I was seemingly obsessed with 70s playlists on this day) and the system started to play the top songs of a band by the name of Mellow and Sleazy. Ever get the feeling an AI is trolling you? Conclusion Bugs aside, and given how early we are in this new feature I expect Sonos to be working feverishly to deal with them, Sonos Voice Control is a useful, friendly, and simple way to do almost anything you want with a Sonos system.
But given that this is all you can do with Sonos Voice Control, you can’t really trade it for Alexa or Google Assistant — that would be far too limiting. And while it’s possible to run Alexa and Sonos Voice Control side-by-side, being forced to pick between Sonos and Google is unfortunate.
It’s also a problem for Sonos. As good as Sonos Voice Control is, you can already control a lot of Sonos functions from Google Assistant , and I’m guessing many people who use Google on their Sonos smart speakers do just that. If it’s a choice between having limited Sonos control, but everything Google can do, and great Sonos control and no Google at all, I have a feeling I know which way most people will go.
Editors' Recommendations Sonos announces $279 Ray Soundbar and its own voice control Ikea gives us a closer look at its Sonos/Symfonisk wireless controller Sonos Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
