Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Sony finally gets serious about 360 Reality Audio at CES 2021 By Simon Cohen Close Two years ago, at CES 2019, Sony unleashed its 360 Reality Audio format (360 RA) to great acclaim from the journalists who experienced a live demo.
 Since then, Sony has been remarkably conservative in its efforts to make 360 Reality Audio widely available. But today, Sony has announced new products , new partnerships, and some new tools for content creators that could give the struggling immersive audio format the boost it desperately needs.
Speakers built by Sony Video gets the 360 RA treatment More 360 RA music Speakers built by Sony It has always been something of a mystery as to why Sony, as a prodigious electronics hardware company, had never released its own 360 RA-capable speakers. Instead, it seemed content to have the $200 Amazon Echo Studio stand as the only device that could stream 360 RA tracks directly while relying on its headphones and earbuds to fill the gap.
Previous Next 1 5 Sony Sony Sony Sony SRS-RA3000 360 Reality Audio Wireless Speaker Sony Sony Today, Sony has finally announced its first 360 RA speakers, the SRS-RA5000 and SRS-RA3000. The Wi-Fi speakers will be available this spring, though Sony declined to offer any pricing information. Curiously, Sony has opted not to make these network-connected speakers “smart.” They can be controlled by Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant , but only through the use of a device that already has one of these voice assistants built-in.
Sony is also going to start licensing its headphone personalization technologies that enable smartphones and automotive vehicles to play 360 Reality Audio to third-party manufacturers. This should expand the number of ways people can experience 360 RA, but it doesn’t do much to bring new 360 RA speakers or soundbars to the market.
What is 8D audio, and how can you experience it? Sony CES highlights: Everything announced for 2021 Sony CES 2021 TV lineup: Sony is back In a big way Video gets the 360 RA treatment If you’ve never heard of 360 Reality Audio before, here’s a quick synopsis: It’s designed to reproduce the experience of being at a live music performance. It does this by placing the listener in a virtual concert venue and then it positions all of the instruments and performers on a soundstage relative to the listener’s position. The result is an airy and open sound that is different from both studio and live concert recordings.
Sony But that effect can feel a little underwhelming when simply listening to 360 RA tracks, which is why Sony’s announcement that it is launching a new video service with 360 RA is an intriguing move. The service is available through Sony’s Artist Connection app for iOS and Android , and the debut experience will be a live performance by Zara Larsson at 5 p.m. ET on January 11. Sony says it will, along with major music labels and service providers, begin streaming this new video content later this year.
Watching recorded live concerts is a great way to experience your favorite artists, especially during a pandemic, and the addition of the 360 RA format should make these concerts feel even more lifelike.
More 360 RA music Finally, Sony is making it a little easier for artists and content creators to produce music in the 360 RA format.
At the moment, the only way to hear 360 RA music is via Tidal HiFi, Amazon Music HD , or Deezer, which launched a dedicated Sony 360 RA app in 2019. These services have a very limited catalog of about 4,000 360 RA tracks, which is more of a teaser than a full-fledged experience.
Deezer One reason that catalog is so limited might be the extra work involved in making 360 RA content. So Sony and Virtual Sonics, Inc. have developed new software plug-in called the 360 Reality Audio Creative Suite. It’s compatible with popular digital audio workstations (DAW) and will be released at the end of January. The plug-in will presumably make the 360 RA workflow much easier to manage since it will sit inside software tools that creators are already using.
In an effort to encourage more 360 RA creation, Sony and Music.com, with distribution by The Orchard, are launching a Creators’ Program, which makes it possible for creators to produce 360 Reality Audio content using the 360 Reality Audio Creative Suite and then stream their content.
Editors' Recommendations Sony’s first wireless speakers to support 360 Reality Audio start at $300 The 15 coolest gadgets at CES 2021 The best TVs of CES 2021: Samsung, Sony, LG, TCL LG TVs at CES 2021: OLED gets a brightness boost Samsung’s 2021 TV lineup surprises with Neo QLED, more MicroLED TVs Sony Tech News Audio / Video TCL put itself on the map in the U.S. when it launched its first 6-series TV in 2018. Along came its 8K mini-LED series in 2019, then it dropped another bomb last year when it brought mini-LED to its 6-series -- meanwhile, other brands still hadn't come forward with their own mini-LED sets. I think it’s fair to say the stakes are pretty high for TCL this year at CES 2021. Can they score another first? Spoiler alert: Yes What's new for TCL 6-Series Let’s start with the 6-Series. In case you don’t recall, TCL brought out the 6-Series in 2018 and it was a hit. In 2019 the 6-Series got quantum dots and performed even better. Then in 2020, TCL gave it mini-LED backlight technology and it took another big step up. All the while, prices for this hot TV series stayed low. So, what’s new for the 6-Series in 2021? One number followed by one letter: 8K Audio / Video Last week, ahead of CES 2021, Roku announced that it had created a reference design for a wireless soundbar that could be used with the Roku TV Ready platform. The key innovation here is Roku's elimination of the HDMI cable (or optical cable) that is normally a requirement when connecting a soundbar to a TV. Roku said that it expected TCL to be the first company to introduce one of these wireless speakers, and today, that's what TCL has done.
The TCL Alto R1 is the first soundbar to make use of Roku's proprietary Wi-Fi Audio streaming technology. Instead of connecting the Alto R1 to a TCL Roku TV directly, you simply plug it into a wall outlet for power, and the TV will automatically detect the speaker and prompt you with an on-screen setup guide.
Audio / Video We thought V-Moda's studio-inspired $350 M-200 headphones were pretty sweet when we reviewed them in 2019, but for all of their strengths, they're still a wired-only set of cans and they don't have active noise cancellation (ANC). Today, on the first day of CES 2021, V-Moda fixes these omissions with its $500 M-200 ANC -- a wireless, ANC-equipped version of the M-200. This isn't a preview; you can buy the new cans on Amazon or V-moda.com today.
All of the classic V-Moda design elements have been preserved with the M-200 ANC. You get a well-cushioned headband, an articulated set of hinges that let the headphones fold up into a small, hard-shell carry case, aluminum "shields" on the ear cups that can be swapped out for an endless range of customization options, and magnetically attached ear cushions.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
