Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? One of Sony’s best Dolby Atmos soundbars is $300 off at Best Buy By Briley Kenney Close Sony / Sony No home theater setup is complete without a capable audio system to complement your high-resolution TV. Even with one of 2023’s best 4K or 8K-quality TVs , you’re not going to have a truly immersive experience without booming, room-filling sound. TV speakers alone are not going to make that happen. But with the right surround system or soundbar, like one plucked off the list of the best soundbar deals , it will feel like you’re there in the middle of the action. Enter Sony’s excellent HT-A5000 Dolby Atmos smart soundbar that Best Buy is offering for an incredible discount today. Normally $1,000, you can save $300 and grab it for just $700. Let’s look a little closer at what this bad boy can do.
Why you should buy the Sony HT-A5000 Dolby Atmos smart soundbar For starters, this Sony HT-A5000 soundbar has Dolby Atmos support for immersive sound plus additional features, like 360 spatial sound that adapts to the environment, smart calibration to match your room, and much more. While previously, the Sony HT-A3000 was the best budget option in the series , this price drop should put the HT-A5000 on everyone’s radar.
With Bluetooth, WiFi, and Chromecast all ready to go, you can stream audio from a variety of sources, not just your TV. Spotify Connect and Apple AirPlay 2 are supported, as well, and you can always talk to your voice assistant through the speaker like Amazon’s Alexa or Google Assistant.
 That will even allow you to control your smart home devices — connected to your smart assistant of choice. You can play music, stream from your favorite apps and services, or watch incredibly cinematic movies with the audio streaming right to the soundbar. What more could you ask for, really? If you ever want to expand, you can add more wireless subwoofers and speakers to the mix. Even if you don’t, this 5.1.2 channel soundbar delivers plenty of punch and treble for a better audio experience. An X-Balanced speaker delivers powerful bass without creating distortion, and beam tweeters help fill the room with clear, enhanced sound.
Normally, the Sony HT-A5000 Dolby Atmos smart soundbar would cost you $1,000, but Best Buy is offering it for just $700 — saving you $300. Now’s an excellent time to buy in if you want to build the ultimate home theater and, more importantly, if you already own a Bravia XR TV or plan to get one. This soundbar seamlessly syncs with Sony Bravia XR TVs.
Editors' Recommendations A massive Sonos Black Friday sale just started at Best Buy The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Deals Sony Audio / Video This is one of the most attractive OLED TV Black Friday deals in the market right now -- a $1,600 discount from Best Buy for the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV, which slashes its price from $3,600 to $2,000. It's still not cheap even with the savings, but this is the kind of purchase from Best Buy Black Friday TV deals that will totally transform your living room. We're not sure if this offer will remain online through to the shopping holiday though, so if you don't want to miss out, it's highly recommended that you complete the transaction immediately.
Why you should buy the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV You shouldn't underestimate how big the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV is -- you need to consult our guide on what size TV to buy if you have enough space for it. If you do, then you should be looking forward to watching the most popular shows and movies with 4K Ultra HD resolution, with the TV's Neural Quantum Processor with 4K Upscaling capable of upgrading the quality of all kinds of content. The Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV runs on the Tizen platform to grant you access to your favorite streaming services, and it even comes with the Samsung Gaming Hub that collects all video games streaming services in one place.
Audio / Video We didn't expect the Bose Smart Ultra, which was rolled out just over a month ago, to have its price slashed for this year's Black Friday soundbar deals, but you shouldn't be complaining. Amazon is offering the soundbar for $799 instead of its original price of $899, for savings of $100. It may not be much of a discount, but you might as well take advantage of it if you're interested in the brand's latest flagship Dolby Atmos soundbar. There's no telling how much stock they've put up for sale with this cheaper price, so before the bargain gets taken down, you should complete your purchase.
Why you should buy the Bose Smart Ultra soundbar The Bose Smart Ultra soundbar is the successor of the Bose Smart Soundbar 900, with the major upgrade being the addition of an AI-driven dialogue mode that makes spoken words much easier to hear and understand using machine learning. This is especially important when watching live shows and sports programs, as there's no available subtitles for such content. Meanwhile, similar to its predecessor, the Bose Smart Ultra soundbar features up-firing drivers that bounce sound off the ceiling to your listening position, which enables Dolby Atmos and other surround sound formats.
Audio / Video There's no shortage of QLED TV Black Friday deals this year, but it will be tough to find a better offer than Best Buy's lowered price for the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. Instead of $450, you'll only have to pay nearly half that following a $220 discount, for an eye-catching price of $230 for the shopping holiday. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if you want to take advantage of the huge savings though, because we're pretty sure that this bargain is attracting a lot of shoppers. Proceed with the transaction now so that you don't miss out.
Why you should buy the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV The TCL Q5 4K QLED TV features a 55-inch display with 4K Ultra HD resolution, which guarantees sharp details and lifelike colors when you're watching your favorite shows and movies, and it supports most advanced HDR formats for even better picture quality. Its built-in Google TV platform grants access to all of the most popular streaming services like Netflix and Disney+, while also making the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV compatible with voice commands through smart home devices that are running on Google Assistant or Amazon's Alexa.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
