Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Vizio M-Series 5.1 soundbar review (M51a-H6): The bar to beat By Caleb Denison Close $299.99 eARC, Dolby Atmos, DTS:X support Impressive subwoofer Seamless surround effects Comprehensive control Excellent fidelity One HDMI input Less suitable for larger rooms Having recently reviewed the Vizio Elevate soundbar , which produced outstanding Dolby Atmos surround sound (for a steep price), I’ve been eager to take a look at Vizio’s lower-priced M-Series 5.1 (M51a-H6) soundbar as well. With virtual Dolby Atmos and DTS:X onboard and a compact profile, the $300 soundbar system has all the makings of an incredible value. But even going in knowing all this, I came away surprised. Let’s take a look.
Out of the box Setup options Sound quality Our take Out of the box At first glance, the M-Series 5.1 may look a bit … boring. But that’s sort of the point. The soundbar doesn’t call attention to itself, and I consider that a good thing — you should be able to hear the gear without it being a visual intrusion. Vizio did a fine job of creating an attractive system that disappears into your room. It’s compact, can slide right under most Vizio TVs, and comes in a smooth, charcoal-gray finish.
Previous Next 1 3 Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends The system comes with a 36-inch-wide soundbar that packs six drivers — three mid-woofers and three tweeters in a left, center, right configuration — as well as two surround speakers with a single midrange driver for each, and a subwoofer with a robust six-inch driver at the bottom.
Vizio M-Series 5.1 soundbar shows up as a Costco exclusive for $300 The backside of the soundbar is pretty straightforward. There is a power port and an auxiliary input port that can be used for a smart speaker if you’d like the smart speaker to control the system or be heard through the surround sound system. There are also two HDMI connections, one for connecting a single device and another that supports eARC for lossless Dolby Atmos and DTS:X surround signals — that’s a pretty impressive inclusion at this price point.
Everything you need comes in an incredibly well-organized box Dan Baker/Digital Trends The back of the surround speakers have a single RCA port that connects the speakers to the subwoofer, as well as a screw hole that can be used to mount the speakers using included mounting brackets.
If you’re familiar with Vizio soundbars, then you know that everything you need comes in an incredibly well-organized box. There are two power cords (one short and one long, in case your subwoofer is further away from an outlet), two extremely long surround sound speaker cables, an HDMI cable, a remote, batteries, an optical cable, a couple of analog cables, and the aforementioned hardware to mount the speakers.
Setup options There are two different setup scenarios for the M-Series 5.1. One is the more conventional setup where the soundbar is positioned upfront, the surround speakers behind you, and the subwoofer back with the surround speakers (which gets the surround signal wirelessly and powers the surround speakers).
Setup is plug-and-play and totally automated.
The other setup option (which works well for people who may not have as much room) is to have the surround speakers flank the soundbar at the front, with the subwoofer also toward the front of the room. Vizio claims that even with this setup, the M-Series 5.1 can still pull off some pretty impressive surround sound effects.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends Setup is plug-and-play and totally automated. After plugging the soundbar and subwoofer into power outlets and turning the system on, the two components will automatically connect to each other and you’re good to go. If you happen to be using the M-Series 5.1 in a massive, cavernous room, there could be some issues with the subwoofer being too far away from the soundbar and losing some of its signal, which manifests itself through a little popping noise. But considering this system isn’t intended for larger rooms, I don’t see this being an issue for most folks Much like the Vizio Elevate, the M-Series 5.1 system has a comprehensive suite of controls, all of which are managed via the included remote control. With the remote, you can manage independent surround speaker balance, overall surround speaker level, subwoofer level, bass and treble levels, and a fair amount of preset EQ options. This kind of control is essential for dialing in the system’s sound to work well with various speaker/subwoofer placement scenarios and room characteristics. With a little bit of tweaking, I was able to get the system right where I wanted it.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends Sound quality But how does it sound? In short, the Vizio M-Series 5.1 sounds great. In fact, at this price range, it has no business sounding as good as it does — even for Vizio, which is known for putting out some fairly high-value soundbars.
The M-Series 5.1 created a convincing circle of sound.
The system doesn’t pull off Dolby Atmos effects quite as well as a system with upfiring speakers (like the Vizio Elevate), but the fidelity is impressive and the surround effects are seamless and contiguous.
The surround effects in the intro of Mad Max: Fury Road (one of my go-to Atmos surround test tracks) swirl around you, and if there are any holes in the presentation, you’ll notice right away. The M-Series 5.1 created a convincing circle of sound, with the blend between the surround speakers and the soundbar sounding excellent.
The virtual Dolby Atmos effects certainly did increase the perceived height of the overall presentation and improved the depth as well. I just didn’t get the sensation that objects were right above me like I did with the Vizio Elevate. When the first chase scene ensues in Fury Road a dune buggy flies overhead, and on proper Dolby Atmos systems, it sounds as if the vehicle races up from behind and flies right over you. With the M-Series 5.1 soundbar, the dune buggy seemed to come through me as opposed to above me.
I find that this track is also a good stress test because the low, gravelly voice of the narrator will push the limits of most soundbars, which often lean heavily on the subwoofer for midbass frequencies. I’ve frequently found that it seems as if most of the voice is coming from the subwoofer, but in my testing, I found no undue attention called to the subwoofer. It seemed as if the voice was anchored to the soundbar, with the bass simply omnipresent — truly impressive.
Previous Next 1 5 Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends If you want your living room to feel more like a theater, the M-Series 5.1 absolutely pulls that off. Unlike other soundbars I’ve tested, the treble here is not too sharp, the dialog is never muffled, and the midrange is clear and well-defined. And while soundbars aren’t known for being all that “musical,” I did run a few music tracks through the M-Series 5.1 and it produced the same crisp fidelity as it did for movies. There wasn’t a great deal of instrumental separation, and the sound stage isn’t especially deep — after all, the M-Series 5.1 is not an audiophile product meant to compete with a dedicated music system — but the bass is rich, the instrumental textures are very good, and the system provided a pleasant, room-filling experience.
Our take People go into budget-friendly soundbars with managed expectations. For most, as long as it sounds better than the TV’s built-in speakers, it’s usually fine. But the Vizio M-Series 5.1 defies those expectations and, as such, I think listeners will be blown away at first listen. For the price, the Vizio M-Series 5.1 is a knockout.
Is there a better alternative No. Vizio also offers its SB36512-F6 soundbar, which has two upfiring Atmos channels, for the same price. However, I don’t like its design as much, and I think the fidelity of the M-Series 5.1 is a bit better. Also, the M-Series 5.1 supports eARC for higher-quality audio while the SB366512-F6 offers standard ARC.
How long will it last The Vizio M-Series 5.1 seems well-built and should last as long as it takes for you to get the itch to upgrade.
Warranty Vizio offers a one-year warranty on its soundbars when purchased from an authorized retailer. More warranty information can be found here.
Should you buy it? Yes. The M-Series 5.1 soundbar is a tremendous value and offers an extremely fun cinematic sound experience.
Editors' Recommendations Polk’s $249 expandable React Soundbar packs virtual 5.1 surround sound and Alexa Vizio’s 5.1 home theater soundbar system drops down to $200 on Amazon Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
