Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Vizio M-Series All in One soundbar review: a real all-in-wonder By Caleb Denison Close $200.00 Great fidelity for the price Excellent dialogue clarity Wide soundstage Ample bass Good dynamics No perceived Dolby Atmos effects Time and again, Vizio has proved it is unmatched at making startlingly good soundbars at impressively low prices. The company’s new $180 M-Series All in One soundbar (model number: M213AD-K8 — this is extremely important) carries on this legacy. With potent bass, impressive dialogue clarity, and a surprisingly wide soundstage, there perhaps is no better all-in-one TV sound solution on the market.
Video review A very important note Out of the box Built-in speakers Connections Setup Sound quality Our take No product is perfect, so we have a few complaints to register, but on the whole, the Vizio M-Series All in One soundbar (that’s its name, not just its description) exceeds nearly every expectation. Read on to find out if this all-in-wonder soundbar might be right for you.
Riley Yong/Digital Trends Video review A very important note This review applies to the 2022 M-Series All in One soundbar, model number M213AD-K8. We make that distinction because, at the time of publication, Vizio still sells an older version, the M21D-H8, at many popular retailers for under $150, and the two are easily confused. The new version reviewed here adds Dolby Atmos support, unique on-screen control integration with select Vizio TV models, and an updated remote control, and it produces better overall sound quality.
LG’s new M-Series Wireless OLED TVs start at $5,000 Bose Smart Soundbar 600 one-ups the Sonos Beam with up-firing drivers Sony’s latest Dolby Atmos soundbar is smart, modular, and one of its most affordable Definitely double-check the model before purchasing.
Out of the box Included in a bright red box with the soundbar is a newly designed remote control, two AAA batteries for the remote, an HDMI cable, and a power cord, along with basic instructions. This soundbar does not come with a digital optical cable, even though the soundbar does support that connection. The soundbar also doesn’t include any analog cables for connecting smart speakers or personal audio devices, even though the soundbar does offer two 3.5mm analog connections for just such a purpose — one is even labeled “smart speaker.” Riley Yong/Digital Trends Built-in speakers The M-Series AiO soundbar features six active speakers and two passive radiators. Depending on the soundbar’s orientation, the speakers will fire into the room in one of two different directions.
With the soundbar set on a media stand in front of the TV, two tweeters and two midrange drivers fire directly out at the listener — two subwoofers and two passive bass radiators fire upward from the top of the trapezoidal soundbar.
If the soundbar is mounted to the wall, the two subs and bass radiators will fire directly at the listener while the two tweeters and two midrange drivers fire at a slight up-angle. Vizio uses a built-in gyroscope and custom digital signal processing (DSP) to alter the output of the speakers so that no matter the orientation — on the wall is 90 degrees different than on a stand — the sound seems to come directly at the listener from the soundbar.
It’s worth noting that the Vizio M-Series AiO soundbar does not have up-firing Dolby Atmos speakers — although pictures of the soundbar’s subwoofers may lead onlookers to believe it does. In fact, Dolby Atmos sound effects are created virtually. In truth, this is a stereo soundbar.
Connections The Vizio M-series AiO soundbar offers one HDMI input and one HDMI eARC port, which can send video and audio signals from the bar’s HDMI input along to a TV, as well as accept downstream audio from a TV’s ARC or eARC port. Because the soundbar supports eARC and claims to support Dolby Atmos, having a TV with an eARC port is preferred, but not required. Due to its low latency, eARC connections virtually eliminate lip-sync problems, and in some cases, eARC is capable of sending a higher-quality audio signal from eARC-enabled TVs.
Riley Yong/Digital Trends With that said, the soundbar will work just fine using the long-standing ARC format found on most TVs from the past five years. If HDMI ARC is not an option, a digital optical or analog audio connection is also available, though using either of those connections negates most of the advantages afforded by this new model.
Setting up the Vizio AiO soundbar itself is a breeze.
The soundbar also supports Bluetooth wireless connections, for streaming audio directly from a smartphone , tablet, or computer, but does not support a Wi-Fi connection or built-in apps like Spotify Connect for streaming music. The soundbar is also not “smart” in that it doesn’t directly support Apple’s Siri, Google Assistant , or Amazon’s Alexa.
 However, smart speakers supporting those digital assistants can be connected to the soundbar via the aforementioned “smart speaker” port.
Setup Setting up the Vizio AiO soundbar itself is a breeze. One HDMI, optical, or analog cable is all that’s needed on the soundbar side. However, users will want to ensure that HDMI CEC and HDMI ARC or eARC are enabled in their TV’s audio menus. If an option for turning Dolby Atmos on or off is available, it should be turned on.
To be clear, however, not all TVs support Dolby Atmos output through their HDMI ARC or eARC ports. Furthermore, not all TVs support Dolby Atmos through their built-in streaming apps. Check your TV’s manual for clarification on these points.
Sound quality Before I get to my impressions of the Vizio M-Series AiO Soundbar, I wanted to explain what I listen for in a soundbar like this.
With the Dolby Atmos logo printed on the box, I’m naturally curious about how well the soundbar pulls off Dolby Atmos surround sound effects. But before I get there, I listen for general fidelity. Soundbars at this sub-$200 price level often offer poor overall sound quality. So if the soundbar comes off sounding good in general, that’s a great start. From there, I listen for dialogue clarity, because if you can’t hear the dialogue clearly, then you have failed as a soundbar. From there, I’ll scrutinize the bass output, because while this is a small soundbar, I expect some measure of “oomph” — otherwise I might be tempted to offer a soundbar with a subwoofer, cheap as it may be.
Riley Yong/Digital Trends Then, last in the lineup of considerations, is Dolby Atmos performance. If it says Dolby Atmos on the box, I need to hear some kind of Atmos effect. Otherwise, I’m going to have to give the manufacturer a hard time for printing that logo on the box. Still, at $200, I’ll be tempering my expectations.
This soundbar pulls off some really impressive feats.
With all of that in mind, I gave the Vizio M-Series AiO Soundbar a thorough listen and the first thing that came to mind was, “OK, Vizio! I see what you’re doing!” I’ll cut to the chase: This soundbar pulls off some really impressive feats for under $200. I can tell you without reservation that If I were to purchase the M-Series AiO, I’d feel like I got a whole lot more than what I paid for. Here’s what you’ll get and, just as importantly, what you won’t get: You will get impressive fidelity. I’m not going to give this soundbar the full audiophile term-laden, surgical dissection treatment. But the fact that I could pick it apart at that level says a lot about how well the soundbar punches above its weight. Already, I’m impressed.
You will also get excellent dialogue clarity — and I mean excellent at any price. Every line of every movie and TV show I watched was delivered with superb articulation, diction, weight, and most importantly, intelligibility. Huge thumbs-up for this soundbar when it comes to its virtual center channel performance.
You will also get a respectably wide soundstage. There were times when I would have believed you if you told me the sound was coming from the Polk towers speakers that are placed well to the sides of the TV in my media setup. This soundbar has an impressive width of sound.
You’re also going to enjoy surprisingly good dynamics. There’s this scene early in Netflix’s The Gray Man in which the movie’s audio track does a hard cut from a really quiet scene to a surprisingly loud car horn honking as it drives by, and that moment made me jump in my seat a bit because it was so unexpected.
Now, as for bass? It’s a bit of a mixed bag.
The Vizio M-Series AiO has got big bass. Shockingly deep bass, considering there’s no separate subwoofer. As in impress-your friends-with-the-big-bass-coming-from-the-small-box … bass. It far exceeded my expectations. But at times, it was a bit much. As much as I like moving bass, this soundbar definitely has a high mid-bass peak in its frequency response that makes it sound like it’s trying to sound bigger than it is. Fortunately, the included bass level control allowed me to dial the bass back enough to make me happy.
No need to run and grab a trashy subwoofer. No thanks.
Riley Yong/Digital Trends The one not-so-complimentary thing I have to say about the Vizio M-Series AiO is that I don’t feel it delivers on even a baseline expectation of Dolby Atmos. I won’t use this review as a platform for expressing my dismay at the rampant dilution of the Dolby Atmos badge — that deserves its own article — but I will say that even my tempered expectations at hearing some sort of virtual height effects were let down. It may surprise you to know, however, that this is fine with me.
I am actually happy that there wasn’t some distracting fake version of Dolby Atmos muddying up the overall sound signature. The soundbar sounds great without fake Dolby Atmos.
 I’m just worried printing it on the box sets up false expectations. Bottom line: so long as you don’t expect the “dome of surround sound” with which Dolby Atmos is most commonly associated, you will not be disappointed with this soundbar.
Vizio did it again. Even though I had a sneaking suspicion they’d deliver, I was still surprised when I reviewed this soundbar. Color me impressed.
Our take The Vizio M-Series All in One Soundbar is a seriously impressive one-box sound solution that completely blows away any TV’s onboard sound quality while handily outperforming most competition found at and just above its price point.
Is there a better alternative? Not really. The only standalone soundbar I’ve heard that can come close is the TCL Alto 8i, but the Vizio M-Series All in One Soundbar has better fidelity and more bass.
The next best option will be a 2.1 soundbar that includes a wireless subwoofer, and my pick in that type of product category would also be a Vizio product, the V21-H8.
How long will it last? Given the Vizio M-Series All in One is outfitted with an eARC port and that soundbars are generally not prone to aging poorly, this product should stand the test of time well.
Warranty Vizio offers a one-year limited warranty for its products. You can visit Vizio’s warranty information page here.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you’re looking for an affordable one-box solution for serious sound enhancement of your TV, this is the best option we’ve tested thus far.
Editors' Recommendations Best soundbar deals: Save on Bose, LG, Samsung, Sony, and Vizio JBL confirms U.S. pricing, release dates for new Tour One M2 and Tour Pro 2 Bang & Olufsen’s latest soundbar costs a fortune, but it might be the last one you ever own Vizio has new smart TVs and soundbars for 2023, but the best may be yet to come Leaked Sonos photos leave little doubt that the Ray soundbar is real Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Computing We're nearing developer conference season, but before we get there, we've been busy reviewing our little hearts out this past month.
We've found the gems among the many tech products we've given a try this month. They span all the most important established product categories, but also include those tech products that are more off the beaten path. Everything below is stuff we've personally used and reviewed ourselves -- and these ones certainly got our attention this month.
Audio / Video Fans of DJ mixes now have a new reason to consider switching to Apple Music. The streaming music service has relaunched its One Mix collection of DJ mixes with the addition of Dolby Atmos Music-powered spatial audio tracks.
To kick off the new feature, Apple Music has partnered with Detroit techno pioneer, DJ, and producer Jeff Mills. His Outer to Inner Atmosphere: The Escape Velocity Mix is an Apple Music exclusive, and the first of many DJ mixes to get the Dolby Atmos treatment.
Audio / Video Toshiba has announced the first smart TV based on Amazon's Fire TV software that has a native 120Hz LCD panel. The M550KU-Series LED 4K UHD Smart TV with Fire TV starts at $800 for the 55-inch model. Other sizes include the $1,000 65-inch and $1,200 75-inch models. All three sizes will be available in December on Amazon.com, as well as Best Buy (online and in stores), starting with the 55-inch model on December 6.
The M-Series is the latest model to bring a set of upscale specifications to Fire TV-enabled smart TVs. It joins the recently announced Fire TV Omni, which was designed by Amazon itself, as well as the Insignia F50, a Fire TV with a quantum dot display.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
