Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This Vizio Dolby Atmos soundbar system defines bang for your buck By Caleb Denison Close $800.00 Super-easy setup Sleek design Robust sound Big soundstage Height effects need a little boost Type “Dolby Atmos soundbar” into your search engine of choice and prepare for frustration. Ranging from as little as $350 all the way up to $2,000, these one-box solutions vary greatly both in price and capability. Some systems come with surround speakers, some don’t. Some come with a subwoofer, and some don’t. Some are easy to set up, and some are not. What are you supposed to buy? If only there was a Dolby Atmos soundbar system that ticked all the right boxes: Easy setup, great sound, reasonable price.
Video review Out of the box Setup and connections Control Sound quality Dolby Atmos quality The bottom line The Vizio M-Series Elevate 5.1.2 Dolby Atmos soundbar system does exactly that. Read on to find out why Vizio’s latest sonic triumph makes a whole lot of sense for a whole lot of people.
Bose’s new flagship Dolby Atmos soundbar brings AI smarts to the dialogue problem DTS Play-Fi wireless audio adds support for Dolby Atmos, DTS:X Nakamichi increases the price of its Dragon 11.4.6 soundbar Video review Out of the box The only thing I don’t like about the Vizio M-Series Elevate is its packaging. To be fair, I generally dislike most soundbar surround-system packaging. But there’s something about the gobs of tape and far-too-numerous cardboard tabs on Vizio’s soundbar systems that rubs me the wrong way. They are a pain in the rear to open. But if you can get past that first arduous step, it’s nothing but smooth sailing from there.
It’s rare that I have much to say about how a soundbar system looks, but one of the Vizio M-Series Elevate system’s finer attributes is that it is a pretty sleek-looking little system. The soundbar is low-slung with rounded-off edges and covered in high-quality fabric. The surround speakers are similarly low-profile in stature, thus can be easily placed in a room without being an eyesore. The included wireless subwoofer is similarly sleek and compact, with an unassuming oval shape that, at first blush, doesn’t scream subwoofer.
Riley Young/Digital Trends Along with the speaker components comes just about everything one needs to get the system connected and operational, all tucked into one accessories box. There are two power cords — one for the soundbar, the other for the subwoofer — two exceedingly long surround speaker cables with color-coded RCA jacks on either end, aremote control with batteries, wall-mounting hardware with a wall-mount template, and a green color-coded HDMI cable. You won’t find a digital optical audio cable or analog audio cables in the box — though the soundbar does support those connection options — but I’ve got no gripe with that since most folks will want to connect this soundbar via HDMI for Dolby Atmos audio. Besides, who among us doesn’t have a bin full of cables we don’t use? Setup and connections Setting up a surround sound system doesn’t get much easier than it does with the Vizio M-Series Elevate. The back of each surround speaker has a color-coded RCA jack that matches up with jacks on the back of the wireless subwoofer. Connect the provided color-coded RCA speaker cable between the two components, plug the subwoofer into a power outlet, and the back half of the system is ready to go.
When I powered the system up, it was immediately ready to go.
For the soundbar, only two connections need to be made: HDMI and power. The green color-coded HDMI cable goes into the corresponding green port on the back of the soundbar, and then into an HDMI port marked ARC or eARC on the back of a TV. There is an HDMI input on the back of the soundbar should you want to connect a source directly to the soundbar and pass the signal along to the TV, but for most folks, the simplest setup will be to let the TV be the connection hub and allow audio to flow to the soundbar from the TV.
There is one aspect of setup with which I feel Vizio could do a better job, specifically for owners of Vizio’s own M-Series Quantum X (MQX) TVs. Thanks to little “nubs” on an MQX TV, the M-Series Elevate can actually be attached to the TV’s legs. This isn’t covered in the soundbar’s manual, nor is it obvious in the TV manual. It can be done, though, and provides the sleekest setup. Otherwise, folks will need a generous amount of depth on their media stand to accommodate the depth of the TV along with the depth of the soundbar. Of course, if you’re wall-mounting, none of that is a concern.
Riley Young/Digital Trends There are sync buttons on the back of the M-Series Elevate soundbar and subwoofer for linking the two together, but I doubt you’ll need to use them. When I powered the system up, it was immediately ready to go.
Control Having control over every channel in a Dolby Atmos surround system is crucial to getting the best possible sound out of a variety of setup situations. Some folks will need to place the surround speakers very close to their seating area, others will need to place them far away. Sometimes the left speaker will need to be placed further from the listening area than the right or vice versa. Some people may have larger rooms that need more bass output, others may need to trim down the subwoofer to work better in a smaller space. Without independent channel control, none of this is possible. Thankfully, the Vizio M-Series Elevate offers all the granular controls needed to dial things in.
The tool for these adjustments is the included remote control, which features a small LCD screen at the top. Levels for right, left, center, surround, surround balance, height, and subwoofer are included. There are also broad treble and bass adjustments available, as well as several EQ presets and a dialogue level adjustment. Everything you need is here.
Riley Young/Digital Trends For basic volume control, a TV’s remote will work just fine, as the M-Series Elevate will gladly take its instructions from a TV, provided the TV has HDMI CEC turned on in its settings menu.
Since I connected the M-Series Elevate to a new Vizio MQX TV, I didn’t have to do anything to get the optimal signal sent to the soundbar, but some folks may need to tinker with their TV’s audio output settings to ensure the HDMI ARC is turned on and that it is sending a bitstream (not PCM) signal to the soundbar.
Some Vizio TVs also allow quick access to a few audio settings adjustments in their own audio menus, allowing users to stash the soundbar remote after setup has been completed.
Sound quality I’ve been testing Vizio soundbars for several years now — most recently the M-Series All-in-one, the M-Series 5.1.2 (non-elevate) Dolby Atmos soundbar , and the original P-Series Elevate Dolby Atmos soundbar — so I had a good feel for what to expect going into my evaluation of the M-Series Elevate. Still, this soundbar system managed to surprise me a few times.
Perhaps the most remarkable thing about the M-Series Elevate system is that its subwoofer performs far better than I expected. Given its diminutive size and rather cheap-feeling cabinetry, I expected the kind of bass performance that I find more annoying than beneficial. Instead, what I heard was downright respectable for a system of this size and cost. The low end had plenty of punch and rumble without sounding tubby or just … noisy. Is it high-quality, audiophile-approved bass performance? Absolutely not. But I can think of several soundbar systems that had far worse-sounding bass coming from much larger subwoofer boxes. It’s hard not to see Vizio’s design here as something of a win.
The M-Series Elevate was always intelligible and, at times, flat-out pristine.
I was also concerned that the system would lean too hard on the subwoofer, given that all of the other speakers were very small. It’s not uncommon for these one-box solutions to require the subwoofer to cover frequencies well into the midrange, at which point locating the source of the sound (the subwoofer) becomes very easy. For example, with poorly designed systems, one might hear the higher frequencies of a deep voice coming from the soundbar, with the lower frequencies very clearly coming from wherever the subwoofer is placed in the room. This is not desirable. With better-designed systems, the voice should seem to come from the center of the soundbar, with perhaps an omnipresence that doesn’t seem to come from any particular place. The Vizio M-Series pulls off this sonic trick well.
Since we’ve moved on to talk of voices (see what I did there?), I’m happy to report that dialogue clarity with the M-Series Elevate was always intelligible and, at times, flat-out pristine. The M-Series Elevate may use fairly small drivers inside, but they certainly don’t sound small. In fact, not once did I have to use the dialogue level adjustment feature. And beyond the meat of the vocal range, the midrange response was generally open and uncontested, enhancing the perceived clarity of the system.
Treble frequencies also came through with clarity, cleanliness, and just enough detail to make me grin while watching movies for which the sound foley artists no doubt had quite some fun creating sound effects for simple actions like opening a door or walking across a dusty wooden floor. I felt like the creak of squeaky door hinges and the crunching of grit under a cowboy boot were palpable. That’s pretty impressive from a soundbar that is priced well in the midrange territory.
Riley Young/Digital Trends Aside from impressive fidelity for the price, I also enjoyed the seamlessness with which surround effects passed back and forth from the soundbar to the surround speakers. At times, I felt completely encircled in surround sound, with audible effects coming from points in the room in which there were no speakers. Part of that is owed to the M-Series Elevate soundbar’s surprisingly wide soundstage, which is further enhanced by the fact that the Dolby Atmos “height” drivers are actually aimed at the listener when anything other than a Dolby Atmos track is being plated.
But what about when the M-Series Elevate goes into Dolby Atmos mode? What then? Well, that gets its own section.
Dolby Atmos quality At some point, I’ll pen a diatribe on the dilution of the Dolby Atmos brand. But for now, please allow me to simply spell out what kind of Dolby Atmos effect the M-Series Elevate can deliver.
In short, it’s far better than no Atmos at all. While the M-Series Elevate doesn’t quite deliver the “dome of surround sound” I hope for any time I listen to any Dolby Atmos-enabled product (and it can be argued that isn’t what I should be expecting, I suppose), the system does offer noticeable height effects and a much larger soundstage than systems that have no up-firing drivers at all.
Perhaps I’m spoiled by the slightly more expensive (albeit less sleek, if you ask me) P-Series Elevate soundbar, but I think that having four height speakers (5.1.4) is really essential for convincing dome-like Dolby Atmos sound. There were times when I was auditioning the M-Series Elevate when I wasn’t entirely sure I was hearing anything out of the Atmos speakers, which had been turned upward to fire off my ceiling. Now, to be clear, the space in which I auditioned this system has acoustic drop ceiling tiles, which are not optimal for refracting sound. Still, I’ve auditioned many Dolby Atmos systems in this space and heard slightly more convincing effects. I’ll also point out that the popcorn ceilings and vaulted ceilings found in many homes across North America are also not ideal for refracting sound back down toward the listener. With that in mind, I have a baseline expectation for Dolby Atmos , and hope for it to be met.
Riley Young / Digital Trends The M-Series Elevate got there, but only just. At one point, I backed every channel but the height channels all the way down and jacked the height channels all the way up to get as clear a presentation of the Atmos effects as I could. They were there, and they were fairly loud, but they seemed like they were coming from the bar more than the space above me. Still, when combined with the rest of the speakers in a balanced manner, they clearly added a sense of depth, height, and realism that went missing when I backed the height channels all the way down.
All of this to say that while the M-Series Elevate might not deliver the most jaw-dropping Dolby Atmos effects specifically, but its overall presentation is still pretty jaw-dropping, and the height channels are certainly doing their fair share of work. Without them, the system wouldn’t sound nearly as robust.
The bottom line Sure, this was a pretty long review for a soundbar, but to be fair, I gave up the goods at the very beginning: The M-Series Elevate 5.1.2 Dolby Atmos soundbar systems ticks all the boxes at a very approachable price that’s only going to get more attractive over time. If you’re looking for an excellent-sounding soundbar system with a tasty sprinkling of Dolby Atmos effects, you’ll be hard-pressed to find a sleeker, easier-to-use, more potent-sounding system for the money. The Vizio M-Series Elevate presently defines the whole “bang for the buck” concept.
Editors' Recommendations The best Dolby Atmos soundbars for 2023 Sennheiser’s Ambeo Soundbar Mini is a pricey, bedroom-sized Dolby Atmos speaker Dolby Atmos FlexConnect could eliminate home theater soundbars and HDMI cables How we test soundbars Samsung adds HW-Q900C to its lineup of 2023 Dolby Atmos soundbars Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Speakers Audio / Video Nakamichi's epic Dragon 11.4.6 Dolby Atmos soundbar, which debuted at CES 2023, is about to go up for preorder starting at 9 a.m. PT on April 26. But instead of the usual preorder process, Nakamichi has decided to make the first Dragons off the line limited editions. Officially, it will be called the Nakamichi Dragon 11.4.6 Home Surround Sound System 75th Anniversary World Premiere Edition, and only 500 will be made.
Nakamichi has set the price at $3,499. That includes free shipping, but apparently only to U.S. residents. In a footnote on the preorder site, it says that Nakamichi initially planned to offer international shipping too, but had to reevaluate those plans after it discovered the logistics company it's using (eBay’s Global Shipping Program, for some reason) has a maximum weight and dollar value threshold, which the Dragon exceeds by almost $1,000. I guess some dragons don't fly.
Audio / Video Amazon-owned Audible, one of the largest sources of audiobooks, has announced a new partnership with Dolby Labs that will see Dolby Atmos come to its audiobook collection for the first time. Dolby Atmos is a spatial audio surround sound format that is used for movies and music to create a more immersive, 3D experience that goes beyond traditional stereo sound.
The Dolby Atmos collection includes more than 40 of Audible's most popular Originals, including titles like The Little Mermaid, a new version of the story featuring an underwater soundscape and original music; and the Audible Theater production Marrow, part of the company’s Emerging Playwright Commission program, which is designed to elevate emerging theatrical voices while increasing access to plays and performances.
Audio / Video Whether we get our music through streaming services, satellite radio, CDs, or vinyl, most of it has been recorded using the time-honored technique of two-channel stereo. But over the past few years, there's been a growing movement in the recording industry toward so-called spatial audio formats. The most popular of these formats is Dolby Atmos Music, and it can make good ol' stereo sound like mono AM radio.
But what exactly is Dolby Atmos Music? How is it different than stereo? And what kind of gear do you need to listen to it at home and on the go? We've got everything you need to know to get on the Dolby Atmos Music train.
What is Dolby Atmos Music? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
