Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Guides What is Chromecast? Google’s wireless streaming tech explained By Simon Cohen Close In 2013, Google debuted a small gadget called Chromecast. The device could wirelessly link people’s TVs and other devices like smartphones, tablets, and computers. The versatile dongle that you simply plugged into an HDMI port on your TV was far more affordable than other streaming media devices like Roku and Apple TV, but it had less robust streaming offerings. Chromecast added a new meaning to the word “casting,” virtually emulating the casting of a fisherman’s line by wirelessly casting an image from one screen onto another.
Is Chromecast hardware or software? Chromecast devices from Google Chromecast devices from third-parties Chromecast with Google TV Chromecast and Google Home How to cast Today, Google’s Chromecast is on more than just a stick. It’s implemented on a wide variety of smart devices, from TVs to soundbars and smart speakers. As the technology gains popularity, it’s worth understanding what exactly Chromecast is, what it does, how to use it, and how it compares to similar wireless technologies. That’s what we’ll do here.
Is Chromecast hardware or software? Dan Baker/Digital Trends So is “Chromecast” a physical device, software on your smartphone, or something else? The short answer is, yes, it’s all of these things. But since that’s not very helpful, let’s break it down.
What is Apple Music? Music, pricing, and features explained What is Android TV? Google’s smart TV platform fully explained Google TV vs. Roku TV: which is the better streaming OS? More on Chromecast: Become a master caster with these Google Chromecast tips and tricks How to set up a Chromecast The most common Google Chromecast problems and how to fix them Google Cast/Chromecast built-in: The wireless streaming technology All Chromecast devices, which we’ll get to shortly, make use of a proprietary technology from Google that was initially called Google Cast but now goes by the label Chromecast built-in. This is where we get the term casting from.
Casting uses two different techniques depending on the content you want to watch or listen to. If the content you’re casting is coming from a streaming service, such as YouTube or Spotify, you’re actually sending an instruction from one device to another. When casting a YouTube video from your phone to a Google Chromecast attached to your TV, your phone is saying, “Hey Chromecast, here’s a YouTube video I want you to play.” The Chromecast device then dutifully responds by accessing YouTube directly over Wi-Fi so it can stream that video for you. It’s a little like the way a classic TV remote control doesn’t send NBC to your TV — it simply tells your TV to tune in to NBC (or whatever channel you’ve chosen).
The only limitation is that your chosen streaming app must support casting. Not all of them do, and some are picky about which devices are used to do the casting. Amazon Prime Video, for instance, will let you cast from an Android or iOS device, but not from a computer.
If you want to cast music stored on your computer or phone or mirror the entire contents of your phone’s screen or perhaps a tab in the Chrome browser, that content must be physically streamed from one device to another.
Isn’t that what Apple AirPlay does? Pretty much. Chromecast and AirPlay work very similarly, but with a few key differences.
PCs, Android, and iOS devices can all cast content to compatible Chromecast devices, whereas AirPlay only works when sending content from a Mac or an iOS device.
Chromecast also supports higher-resolution audio: You can stream up to 24-bit/96kHz hi-res lossless audio using Chromecast, but AirPlay is restricted to 16-bit/44.1kHz CD-quality lossless audio.
Chromecast devices from Google Image used with permission by copyright holder As we noted above, the original Chromecast device made by Google was a small HDMI dongle that you plugged into your TV. Once connected to power and your Wi-Fi network, it let you transmit video content from your computer, smartphone, or tablet to your TV.
That device proved very popular thanks to its low price and simplicity of operation and was quickly followed by the Chromecast Audio (for transmitting just audio to a set of powered speakers or any device with an audio input). Google eventually introduced two more Chromecasts, including the 4K/HDR-capable Chromecast Ultra.
All of these devices share a common philosophy. They depend on a source device to “cast” content to them. They don’t have remote controls — everything from the choice of what is being cast to playback control is done from the source device. There’s no on-screen interface and no built-in apps or functions.
Not everyone is comfortable with this arrangement, which is why fully independent devices like Rokus and Apple TVs have remained popular. That’s why in 2020, Google released the Chromecast with Google TV , which we’ll discuss in a moment.
Google discontinued the Chromecast Audio and Chromecast Ultra. It currently sells two Chromecast devices: The $30 Chromecast (no remote) and the $50 Chromecast with Google TV (with remote).
Chromecast devices from third-parties You’ll find Chromecast built-in on a wide variety of devices, from soundbars to smart TVs. It’s a standard feature of TVs that use Google’s Android TV software and its latest iteration Google TV, and you’ll find it on Wi-Fi-connected speakers from brands like LG, JBL, Bang & Olufsen, Vizio, Denon, and many more.
It’s also a built-in feature of streaming media devices that use Android TV, like the Nvidia Shield TV and Walmart’s recently released streaming devices.
Once configured according to the manufacturer’s instructions, you can cast audio and/or video (depending on the device) to these products in the same way that you would using Google’s Chromecast devices.
Chromecast with Google TV Caleb Denison/Digital Trends The $50 Chromecast with Google TV might sound like it’s a Chromecast device — after all, it’s called “Chromecast,” and it plugs into your TV’s HDMI input just like Google’s other Chromecasts — but it’s actually a fully-featured Android TV streaming device.
At its core, it’s identical to other Android TV streamers like the Nvidia Shield TV or TiVo Stream 4K in the sense that it uses Android TV software and comes with a dedicated remote control. The biggest difference is that Google has added a new, highly personalized interface called Google TV , which replaces the standard Android TV home screen — Google TV will eventually replace Android TV in most or all new devices going forward.
You can use Chromecast with Google TV as a stand-alone device thanks to its remote control, or you can cast to it from your other devices.
Chromecast and Google Home One of the advantages of owning a product with Chromecast built-in is that it can be managed from within the Google Home app on iOS and Android. Once added to Google Home, you’ll be able to control things like playback and volume for each device, assign them to different rooms, and, if they’re speakers, create speaker groups that will play the same casted audio simultaneously. You’ll also be able to use Google Assistant to control these devices with your voice and add them to smart home routines.
How to cast Image used with permission by copyright holder In your favorite mobile app, look for a rectangular icon with three concentric rings in the corner. On some apps, this can be found on the main screen, like the Android Netflix app seen above. On other apps, it may only be accessible from the playback screen.
Tap that icon, and you’ll be presented with a list of the cast-compatible devices on your network. Keep in mind, if you’re casting video content, the list will only show you video-capable devices like smart TVs or streaming media devices. When casting audio, you will likely see both audio- and video-capable Chromecast built-in devices.
Simply pick your desired device from the list to begin a casting session. Depending on whether you tapped the cast icon from a playback screen or not, your chosen content may begin playing on your selected device right away, or you may need to initiate playback from the casting device.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Once the casting session has started, the cast icon will change from an empty rectangle to a filled-in rectangle. You can control playback or end the casting session at any time by tapping on the Cast icon again.
Editors' Recommendations What is DirecTV Stream: plans, pricing, channels, and more Best streaming devices for 2023: Apple TV, Roku, and more What is Google TV? Here’s everything you need to know Google TV gives NFL Sunday Ticket top billing, adds FAST channels Chromecast deals: The cheapest option for Google’s streaming device Entertainment Mobile Android Cord Cutting 101 Google Chrome Audio / Video How do you get your Netflix, Disney+, Hulu, or Prime Video fix? Chances are it's through a streaming device or smart TV, and there's a good chance that it's through a Roku device or one running its pioneering streaming operating system. At this point, cord-cutting is old news, and Roku was one of the earliest companies to drive the adoption of web-based streaming with its self-contained, app-driven devices.
Today, watching something "on Roku" is standard parlance and the company's popular platform can be found baked into some of the biggest TV brands in the world as well as in its own lineup of streaming devices sticks, and set-top boxes. Even so, that doesn't mean you totally get what a Roku actually is. What is Roku? How does Roku work? Do you need a subscription to use it? Is it just a device you buy, or is it software? Audio / Video The Roku Channel — one of the major services in the FAST category — is now available as an app on Google TV and Android TV. That's a good thing because The Roku Channel says it already reaches an estimated 100 million people in U.S. households with its wealth of free movies and series.
But it's also still a step removed from competing services like the Paramount-owned Pluto TV, which has direct integration with the Google TV live listings and doesn't require a separate download. Still, it's more free content on a low-cost piece of hardware, and who doesn't like that? The Roku Channel sports more than 350 free live linear channels (as in everyone is watching the same thing at the same time), as well as movies and series, live news, and more.
Audio / Video Most big-name music streaming services have a lot in common. Apple Music, Spotify, Amazon Music, Pandora, and YouTube Music all have similar choices in music and quality -- it's just a matter of picking your preferred platform.
Tidal, on the other hand, breaks the mold. The business structure emphasizes the artists having more control over the platform, and it offers higher-quality audio in comparison to the big names. We have all the details on how this service works so you can decide if it's right for you.
What is Tidal? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
