Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Zvox Accuvoice AV157 review: TV dialogue loud and clear By Simon Cohen Close $300.00 Small footprint Easy connections and setup Super-clear and adjustable dialog Expensive for a small speaker No wireless connections for music We’ve been adding speakers to our home TV setups for years. First two speakers for stereo sound, then four, then five, and on and on. Some of us have full 7.2.4 systems with Dolby Atmos that do an impressive job at mimicking the movie theater experience at home. With a growing number of soundbars , our choices for bigger, better sound are more numerous than ever. But as we envelop ourselves in more, are we actually hearing what matters? When actors, news anchors, or interviewees speak, are we hearing what they’re saying? What’s in the box? Design Setup and connections Ease of use Sound quality Our take Judging by the huge upswing in the use of subtitles for everything from Netflix, to YouTube, to Facebook videos , the answer is no — and it’s not because we’re going deaf.
Zvox’s new soundbar is like a magnifying glass for TV and movie dialog It turns out that more speakers do not translate into more intelligible dialogue; in fact, it appears to make it harder to hear, especially if the movie or show’s producers haven’t paid close attention to the quality of their audio mix or if there’s a lot of bass.
So it makes sense that Zvox, a company that is heavily focused on improving the clarity of TV sound, has been able to carve out a niche for itself making soundbar-esque speakers with one aim in mind: Making speech easier to hear.
Its latest product is the $300 Zvox Accuvoice AV157 TV Speaker , which packs 12 levels of Zvox’s speech enhancement technology.
Is it the TV dialog enhancer you’ve been waiting for? Let’s find out.
What’s in the box? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The AV157 comes in an easily recyclable cardboard box. A few polybags containing cables and a polyethylene sleeve for the speaker may need to go in the garbage depending on recycling facilities where you live, but otherwise, the packaging is pretty environmentally friendly.
Inside the box, you’ll find the speaker, a remote control, batteries, three types of audio cables (optical, 3.5mm analog, and RCA-to-3.5mm), a power supply, and a very clearly illustrated quick-start guide.
Design Previous Next 1 3 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The AV157 is available in three colors: Black, a grayish-pewter color called titanium, and “espresso,” which as the name suggests is a medium brown. Regardless of which one you pick, the color only affects the appearance of the speaker’s cabinet — the front metal grille is always black.
The cabinet surface is shiny, textured plastic. While it’s perfectly solid and well-built, the overall look and feel do not convey much in the way of high-end quality. It doesn’t look like you expect a $300 speaker to look — in fact, it couldn’t be more generic looking.
The upside to its plain-Jane façade is, whether you place it on a surface in front of your TV or wall-mount it (two threaded holes on the back make that possible) the AV157 is easy to ignore, which is perfect — I’m very much of the opinion that accessory speakers should be heard, not seen.
It’s about the size and shape of a large center-channel speaker (for those who are familiar with 5.1 setups), which means it’s tiny when compared to even the smallest of soundbars.
At 17 inches wide and just shy of three inches tall, it’s a good deal narrower than the $400 Sonos Beam , which at just 27 inches is already pretty small. It is the same width as the Panasonic Soundslayer and only an inch taller.
There are no physical buttons on the speaker and other than a small Zvox logo, nothing interrupts the just-a-speaker design.
Even the large, easy-to-read digital display which indicates volume level, input, and sound mode is hidden behind the grille, coming to life for just a few seconds so you can see the results of your remote commands before turning itself off again.
Around the back, you’ll find the sparse connection options: One optical port, one 3.5mm analog input, and one headphone and/or subwoofer output. For some reason, Zvox’s product page for the AV157 shows the 3.5mm analog input as compatible with an optical miniplug cable, but I can tell you for sure this is not accurate.
Connecting the AV157 to your TV couldn’t be easier.
These inputs, combined with the included cables, let you connect the AV157 to virtually any source as long as that source isn’t HDMI-only. Though rare, there are some TVs that are beginning to drop support for analog and optical outputs in favor of just HDMI ARC and eARC , so it’s best to double-check your TV’s outputs.
The included infrared remote control is equally nondescript design-wise: Just a small, sturdy, rubberized slab with big, easy-to-read labels and easy-to-press buttons. Thanks to the rubber membrane covering the buttons, the remote should be able to withstand encounters with the occasional spilled drink far better than normal remotes.
It would be nice if the remote’s buttons were backlit, but the high contrast of the bright white labels against the black of the membrane is still legible in all but the darkest of rooms.
Setup and connections Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Connecting the AV157 to your TV couldn’t be easier. Simply select the appropriate cable (I recommend the optical cable for the best results), plug the ends of the cable into the corresponding ports on your TV and on the speaker, plug in the power adapter, and you’re done.
You should never have to guess what volume level you’re at, and the big, bright display means you’ll never be in doubt.
There’s no Bluetooth, no Wi-Fi, and no apps. This may limit the AV157’s functionality, but there’s something to be said for a piece of technology that works the moment you plug it in.
Which is not to say you can’t play music through the AV157 — you can. But you’ll need to hook up your music source to one of the available inputs, which may have been fine in the iPod era, but these days it’s a bit of drag.
One clever solution is to hook up the AV157 to an Amazon Echo device as an external speaker via the 3.5mm jack. As long as your favorite streaming music service is supported by Alexa , you’re good to go — no remote needed. Additionally, many of the popular music streaming apps are supported by the many smart TV operating systems. Navigating music on your TV might sound unusual, but it works.
Ease of use Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The included remote is a snap to use. Button presses produce immediate responses.
I’m a big fan of the four-digit alphanumeric display. You should never have to guess what volume level you’re at, or in the case of the AV157, which voice enhancement mode and level you’re on, and the big, bright display means you’ll never be in doubt. An adjustment for the brightness of the display would be a nice extra, especially when using the AV157 in very bright or dark rooms, but it’s never on for long enough for it to matter much.
You can use the AV157 with your existing remote for things like volume up/down and mute, but not all of its functions will be accessible. For this reason, you should definitely keep the factory remote handy.
As good as the remote is for basic features, the speaker’s deeper settings could be easier to use.
Although the labels are easy to read and the buttons easy to press, some of the features (like switching between Accuvoice and Supervoice modes) require a long-press on a button, instead of each mode getting its own discrete button.
This is especially true of the mysterious “Other Settings” button which lets you access three different adjustments: Bass, treble, and output leveling, but requires that you cycle through each adjustment, using the volume up/down to modify the settings.
On complex devices like A/V receivers, I get it — there are hundreds of settings and you can only have so many buttons. But the AV157 doesn’t do that much, and there appears to be lots of room on the remote for a few more buttons.
Still, these settings will be of the “set it and forget it” variety for most people, so while I’d prefer easier access to them, it’s not a deal-breaker by any means.
Sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Accuvoice AV157’s primary mission may be clearer dialog, but it’s a surprisingly good all-round speaker for all kinds of TV audio, with bigger, bolder sound than its tiny frame suggests.
Zvox’s promises of “room-filling 3D sound” might be a tad optimistic — especially when comparing the AV157 to what a budget soundbar with a wireless subwoofer can offer — but there’s no doubt that when you pump up the bass levels and use the third level of the surround sound mode, there’s more than enough power and range to enjoy Hollywood blockbusters like the Marvel’s Avengers movies.
Using just the standard six levels of Accuvoice enhancement is enough to make any speech far easier to hear.
It can also get remarkably loud if that’s what you desire. Near the top of the volume range, bass starts to bottom out, creating a slight knocking inside the cabinet, but that’s to be expected with a speaker of this size.
More importantly, though, it gives you a huge amount of control over the ability to hear dialogue.
Using just the standard six levels of Accuvoice enhancement is enough to make any speech far easier to hear. The moment you engage AC 1 — the first level — music, sound effects, and virtually all other non-voice audio dip noticeably while dialogue jumps forward.
The result is so stark and produces what feels like a big boost in volume, you may even reach for the remote to turn the volume down after entering Accuvoice mode.
Related : How Zvox’s Accuvoice tech makes voices easier to hear Each successive level amplifies this effect further until voices have achieved an almost achingly bright amount of clarity. Shift the AV157 into Supervoice mode and the effect is even more pronounced. As someone who, thankfully, doesn’t suffer from any significant hearing loss, I can’t testify as to how well these modes will work for someone who does have hearing challenges, but it’s hard to imagine how voices could get any clearer. By the time you hit Supervoice level 6, the dialog is so sharp and bright, you can barely focus on anything else.
Incredibly, this is done with only a tiny amount of distortion creeping in — and only at the highest levels of boost.
It takes some getting used to, and it’s worth remembering there’s no free lunch here: In order to make dialog clearer, the AV157 de-emphasizes all other portions of the soundtrack.
As an experiment, I ran the AV157 from my TV’s optical port and my 5.1.2 home theater system from the HDMI ARC output simultaneously to see if I could have my cake and eat it, too. It kinda worked, but due to a small yet noticeable delay between the two sets of speakers, I couldn’t keep it going.
As for music on the AV157, it’s surprisingly good. I tested it using Tidal on an Apple TV 4K feeding into my TV via HDMI. What really stunned me is that the room-filling 3D sound which Zvox promises is much more apparent with music than with movie or TV soundtracks.
As you would imagine with a speaker built for speech enhancement, vocals are ultra-clear, even on the entry-level surround sound mode. The AV157 can’t quite compete with the Sonos Beam for music — it lacks the Beam’s warmth and resonant bass — but most genres sound very good.
You just have to be careful with some bass-heavy tracks. Post Malone and Swae Lee’s Sunflower is a good example of a song that, even at moderate volume, manages to exceed the AV157’s ability to reproduce bass, with more of that knocking effect I mentioned earlier.
Our take The Zvox Accuvoice AV157 is a good way to get much better sound out of your TV via a very small speaker. But where it really excels is in speech enhancement — something you simply can’t get out of any normal soundbar at any price.
Is there a better alternative? If speech enhancement isn’t critical, there are lots of great soundbars that can make your TV sound way better. And if a small speaker is important to you, the $400 Sonos Beam is a great place to start.
But, if better dialogue is your goal, the only real competition to the AV157 is one of Zvox’s other TV speakers, like the $250 AV155 or the tiny, $170 AV100 Mini. Each improves voice intelligibility, but only the AV157 has all twelve levels of the combined Accuvoice and Supervoice modes.
How long will it last? Zvox’s warranty is only one year, but I’m guessing that if something’s going to go wrong with the AV157, it will happen very quickly. Otherwise, this speaker should provide you with many years of use. There’s no battery to replace and if the power adapter ever dies, it’s an affordable accessory. Even if the remote were to stop functioning, Zvox only charges $15 for a replacement.
Should you buy it? Yes. For those who find it increasingly difficult to understand what’s being said in TV shows and movies, the AV157 is the best way to improve intelligibility without resorting to subtitles.
Editors' Recommendations Can curved speakers make TV dialogue easier to hear? Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
