Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home News I didn’t think the HomePod mini could replace my soundbar — but it did By John Velasco Close I’ve never cared much for my home theater setup. In fact, I own a six-year-old LG LED television paired with a soundbar. And if that sounds bad, just know that it’s a 3D TV too.
 That’s all there is to it. Despite the boring and questionable arrangement, I do enjoy watching a good flick with the volume at nearly full blast, which is my vain attempt at reliving the theater experience at home.
How to connect HomePod mini to Apple TV The magic of computational audio Two are better than one It’s honestly mind-boggling to fathom how I’ve tolerated such a setup for so long. And I never imagined that I could improve it by adding the HomePod mini into the mix. But you know what? Not only is it now part of my home theater setup, but it’s replaced my soundbar for those movie-watching sessions. I never intended for this to happen, but after experiencing the HomePod mini work its magic, I’m convinced it’s a solution for those looking to elevate their audio experience.
How to connect HomePod mini to Apple TV In order for this to happen, you’ll need a couple of things. First is an Apple TV because the HomePod mini doesn’t have an auxiliary input jack to accept audio from other sources. The Apple TV is necessary to send and sync audio to the speakers.
John Velasco / Digital Trends Secondly, you’ll need two HomePod minis to complete the stereo setup for left and right channels. When you set up the second HomePod mini, you’ll be given the option to pair it with the first one for stereo output.
You’re then good to go. Just select the HomePod mini group as your audio output. You can do this by pressing the AirPlay button on the Apple TV remote, then choosing the HomePod mini group.
The magic of computational audio I’ll be frank: There are bigger, better, and more powerful speakers than the HomePod mini. I’m even inclined to say that the Google Nest Audio delivers a stronger, more resounding performance when it comes to music listening. But the HomePod mini has a trick up its sleeve called computational audio, which optimizes and enhances whatever’s being played on the speaker with the help of the Apple S5 chip.
As Apple’s executives would be inclined to say, it works like magic! No matter what you’re watching, computational audio does this thing where it prioritizes the dialogue. With my soundbar, the dialogue during action sequences becomes incoherent because it’s competing against the film’s score and sound effects. You’ve probably experienced this when explosions overwhelm the dialogue. Even though it doesn’t negatively affect the experience per se, it’s still nice to actually be able to comprehend what people are saying.
John Velasco / Digital Trends That’s why I was astounded by the HomePod mini’s adaptability in such instances. Regardless of what’s happening, the dialogue was never overwhelmed. From what I experienced, both the score and sound effects are toned down a smidgen, paving the way for clear dialogue. Don’t get me wrong, I enjoy those cinematic moments when the score’s playing and the sound effects are reaching a peak during climatic moments — but not at the dialogue’s expense. If you watch a lot of movie trailers, you’ll be able to easily distinguish computational audio’s prowess in quickly adapting.
Two are better than one I rarely ever recommend buying two of the same product, but this is one of those rare exceptions. The price of two HomePod minis is still less than the cost of just a single HomePod.
 It’s a blessing in disguise given the biggest hurdle of the original HomePod was its bloated $349 initial cost. Even at $200 for two HomePod minis, it gives many soundbars a good run for their money — I mean, mine has been replaced by them! Now, I’m not saying this is the ultimate home theater experience, given that you’re only going to be exposed to stereo sound. It’s not a true surround sound experience, but if you’re not too particular about 360-degree immersion with your audio and still want something better than your TV’s built-in speakers, this is a practical solution I don’t think you’ll regret. Plus, it’s a smart speaker, which gives it an edge over most soundbars.
Editors' Recommendations 6 HomeKit settings you should disable (or adjust) right now Apple might launch a HomePod smart display in 2024 Apple finally activates HomePod Mini’s hidden temperature/humidity sensor The new HomePod is still too expensive, which is exactly how Apple wants it The Apple HomePod is back, with new smarts, and a lower price Audio / Video Apple Speakers Smart Home Siri and HomeKit are long overdue for an upgrade. I need more than just alarms and music. The announcements around Apple's new chipset have me thinking about Apple can incorporate its new M1 Ultra or M1 Pro into a Homepod Mini.
You have to ask yourself how the Homepod, and more importantly Siri, will do in the years ahead. It's not enough to be in the top 3 voice assistants when there are only four or five viable options to choose from. With Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa's ability to integrate with nearly every device under the sun, how can Siri compete? Smart Home Today's Apple event had the rumor mills filing for extra overtime pay in hope that a new HomePod or HomePod Mini would be announced, but HomeKit users once again find themselves out in the cold. Although Apple announced quite a bit of information about upcoming products, no mention was made of its smart home presence.
The original HomePod was discontinued last year around this time, with the idea that Apple would focus all of its future efforts on the HomePod Mini. The latest announcement Apple has made regarding the Mini is the launch of new colors -- yellow, orange, and blue -- but even that was in November of last year. Since then, there's been no news.
Smart Home The Amazon Echo Show 15 is currently the largest smart display on the market. At 15-inches on the diagonal, it's a massive device with a lot of functionality packed into its borders. The Echo Show 15 can do everything you expect other Alexa smart displays to do, including controlling your smart home, answering questions, playing games, and more.
But the features don't stop there. The Echo Show 15 has several lesser-known, almost hidden features that make it even more useful than it might seem at first glance.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
