Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Bluetooth speakers for 2023: Marshall, Sonos, JBL, and more By Derek Malcolm and Michael Bizzaco Close A great-sounding, reliable Bluetooth speaker is a must-have for music lovers who want to have their music with them no matter where they are. There's seemingly no end to the variety of them on the market for every need and use. From compact waterproof outdoor speakers to those with multiroom features for whole-home listening to audiophile speakers with high-quality Bluetooth codecs (such as aptX or aptX HD), you can find what you're looking for.
Bluetooth speakers have gotten so good over the years, with battery power reaching new heights and sound quality rivaling many passive speaker setups. But our purposes, when we talk about Bluetooth speakers, we mean speakers that are portable, battery-powered, and may also have built-in Wi-Fi capabilities for maximum home-and-away versatility (like the Sonos Roam and Move). If a more stay-at-home Wi-Fi speaker is what you're after, we also have a list of the best wireless speakers you can check out.
But for right now, our choice for the best Bluetooth speaker you can buy goes to the Marshall Emberton II.
 Building upon the awesome foundation of the first-generation Emberton speaker, this Marshall Bluetooth powerhouse touts 30 hours of battery, adaptive stereo sound, and the ability to wirelessly link up with other Emberton II speakers.
Whether you're looking for one Bluetooth speaker or five of them, or you simply want something you can hook up to your bike for budget-friendly listening while you ride, we've put together this list of the best Bluetooth speakers you can buy today to help you with your next wireless audio shopping trip.
More More More More More More More More Marshall Marshall Emberton II The best overall Bluetooth speaker Excellent sound quality Rugged IP67 build Easy portability Great battery life Sync with similar speakers No AAC or aptX support No wired playback Pricey Right off the bat, let's just say that we were massive fans of the first-gen Marshall Emberton.
 With the original speaker's impressive stereo soundstaging that delivered an excellent balance of highs, mids, and lows, along with its 20-hour battery life, it was hard to imagine how Marshall could one-up itself. But the arrival of the Marshall Emberton II proves that there were still plenty of things to amaze us with.
One of our new favorite features is called True Stereophonic. Think of it like Sonos' TruePlay capability, which allows for the speaker to automatically adapt to its listening environment. Whether you're in a regular bedroom or a massive living room, the Emberton II will do its very best to send out sound that is the best fit for the acoustic space, and the results are pretty grand.
Adding a little extra battery time never hurt either. The Emberton II delivers 30 full hours of playtime, with the promise that it can return to a full charge after only three hours of charging. It will deliver up to four hours of playtime after charging for only 20 minutes.
The Emberton II also added something called "Stack Mode," which grants the ability to multi-pair it with other Emberton II speakers, a feature that was missing from the first-gen model.
After you factor in the IP67 rating, Bluetooth 5.1 pairing technology, and awesome Marshall app for dialing in the perfect sound with advanced EQ settings, you've got yourself one of the most powerful, feature-rich Bluetooth speakers on the market.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sonos Roam The best portable Sonos speaker Excellent design Lightweight and portable Totally water and dustproof Very good sound for its size Choice of smart speaker assistants Wireless charging No Bluetooth stereo pairing Doesn’t work as a speakerphone Less battery life than some other speakers When it comes to wireless audio excellence, Sonos is one name that grabs plenty of the limelight. And in terms of sound quality, battery life, and smart capabilities, the Sonos Roam edges pretty close to the No. 1 spot on this list. So what's all the fuss about this grab-and-go Sonos speaker? For starters, it offers unparalleled sound quality for both indoor and outdoor settings, with articulate midrange and treble frequencies, rich bass, and little to no breakup at the loudest volumes.
In terms of music streaming, you can send audio to the Roam over Wi-Fi, AirPlay, and Bluetooth connections, with a simple long-press of the button on the back of the speaker to switch between Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. And because it's a Sonos, when connected to Wi-Fi, the Roam integrates into your existing Sonos network for multiroom listening.
You can expect decent battery performance too, with up to 10 hours of juice on a single charge. If you've been looking around for a smart speaker, the Roam is compatible with both Alexa and Google Assistant (Wi-Fi connection required), allowing you to fire up your favorite playlists, check the weather, and add to your shopping list, all through simple voice commands.
Best of all, the IP67 rating means the Sonos Roam is fully capable of taking a dunk in your swimming pool, but be aware that this wireless Sonos entry does not float.
The best Bluetooth speaker Black Friday deals we’ve found Best headphones for running for 2023: JLab, JBL, Shokz, and more Marshall Acton II speaker is $100 off ahead of Black Friday Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos Move A multi-use Sonos speaker Superb build quality Integration with Sonos systems Sounds especially good outdoors User-replaceable battery Sonos app doesn’t work over Bluetooth Big size, big price Multiroom audio is something several companies claim their wireless speakers can do, but we've never come across a multiroom system that is as easy to use or as powerful as Sonos. So when Sonos finally introduced a battery-powered portable speaker that can effortlessly switch between Wi-Fi-based whole-home audio and go-anywhere Bluetooth connectivity, we were all ears.
The Sonos Move is pricey at $400, but it justifies that price through a build quality that goes well beyond most of the products on this list. Despite having a design and look that fits in with the rest of the Sonos line of indoor-only speakers, the Move is just at home outside, with an IP56 rating for dust and water resistance. That means get-togethers, unexpected rainstorms, or even trips to the beach are no problem for the Move. Just don't immerse it in water — it isn't waterproof.
It has a big, bold sound that easily fills a room with warmth and depth that surpasses most of its competitors in this size range. Cleverly, the Move integrates a new form of Sonos' excellent TruePlay EQ technology — one which requires no user intervention. It simply measures the room acoustics via the built-in mics and adjusts accordingly -- and will do so every time you move it.
Of course, those mics would be underutilized if they were only for Auto-TruePlay. They also serve as your smart speaker interface. Like the Sonos One and Sonos Beam , you get a choice of Alexa or Google Assistant. This won't work when using Bluetooth, but it's pretty handy when at home.
The Move's battery is good for 10 hours of use between charges, which is frankly a little underwhelming for a portable speaker. But we have to give Sonos props for its decision to make the battery user-replaceable — a rarity in this category and a huge help in keeping the Move from an early trip to the landfill.
Filling out the Move's benefits is AirPlay 2, which lets you stream directly to the speaker from any iOS device or MacOS computer. It's a higher stream quality than Bluetooth and makes the Move an ideal source for better-than-iPad sound quality for YouTube, Netflix, Disney+, or any other video source you can think of.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Ultimate Ears Wonderboom 3 Best floatable speaker for the pool Excellent durability Light and portable Balanced, 360-degree sound Affordable price point Somewhat lacking in bass Not as slim as other competitors Some minor connectivity issues Ultimate Ears Wonderboom portable Bluetooth speakers have consistently made it on our best-of lists for years because of their surprisingly great sound, along with better-than-you'd-expect bass, ultra-portability, and ruggedness in and out of the water.
It's no surprise, then, that the third generation of the Wonderboom has usurped its predecessor (we still think the Wonderboom 2 is a great buy, too).
But let's get to the main reason the Wonderboom 3 is on our list: it floats. To be more specific, the 14.8-ounce speaker is IP67 waterproof rated, meaning that not only does it float on water so you can toss the thing in the pool and have it play Bobby Darin's Splish Splash while you do the backstroke, but it can withstand being submerged up to one meter for up to 30 minutes (for when the track switches to Yellow Submarine ).
As we mentioned, the sound is great across the spectrum of highs, mids, and low frequencies, and it still has the boost button for that added volume and oomph.
As noted in our review of the Wonderboom 3 , there's not much different between it and the Wonderboom 2 except an additional hour of battery life (from 13 to 14 hours, according to Ultimate Ears), a little longer range in Bluetooth connectivity (from 30 meters to 40 meters), and the fact that the 3 is made from 100% recycled polyester fabric and 31% consumer-recycled plastic.
More Ted Kritsonis/Digital Trends JBL Flip 6 The best rugged speaker for outdoorsy types Solid build quality Loud and clear sound Lightweight and portable Excellent water and dust protection EQ offers some sound tweaking Works with JBL Portable app and PartyBoost Can't stereo pair with non-Flip 6 JBL speakers Doesn’t work as a speakerphone Not drastically different from Flip 5 Time and time again, JBL's Flip line of rugged, superportable Bluetooth speakers land on our Best-of lists, and continuing the tradition is the California-based company's latest, the Flip 6.
A mighty speaker is once again packed into a small, cylindrical form that owners of the Flip 5 and Flip 4 have come to love. And while its diminutive size is what matters most to fans of the Flip, the Flip 6 ups the ante on the other feature most people with their eye on this speaker admire — its ruggedness. The Flip 6 goes one step further than the 5, upgrading from IPX7 to IP67 , which essentially makes it dust-tight, in addition to it already being safe for the shower, rain, and submersion in up to a meter of water for 30 minutes.
The JBL Flip 6 sounds remarkable for such a small package. It's bold and clear, with ample bass and a wider-than-you'd-expect soundstage — audiophiles won't be impressed, but this speaker isn't for them. It gets loud too, and manages to stave off distortion. Plus, JBL's PartyBoost feature is here as well, which allows you to link two PartyBoost-compatible speakers for extra volume and stereo sound, or link even more together for a synchronized sound that can be spread around a whole house.
The only other piece of the puzzle JBL was missing with the Flip 5 was its lack of app support. That has been remedied with the Flip 6, giving users the ability to use the JBL Portable app to do a handful of things including the ability to adjust the speaker EQ.
Lastly, on the battery front, the Flip 6 stays the same with up to 12 hours on a charge, which is still plenty for an entire day's worth of tunes. A USB-C charging cable juices it up, and you can keep the music playing while it does so.
More Tribit Tribit StormBox Micro 2 Best budget Bluetooth speaker Excellent 120-foot Bluetooth range IP67 weather resistance Can be paired with another Micro 2 Doubles as a portable charger The sound is what it is Tribit's popular budget portable Bluetooth speaker, the StormBox Micro, hits our list again with its second generation, the Micro 2. It's got all the same ruggedness and waterproof IP67 rating (for full submersion for up to 30 minutes) that nature freaks loved because they could take it with them to go mountain biking, rock climbing, or camping, but it's more or less improved slightly in every other way from the first gen.
First, the StormBox Micro 2 gets a bump from 9 watts to 10 watts of sound output, which isn't a lot (it wasn't too loud to begin with), but every bit counts, and it's a good-sounding Bluetooth speaker for its size. Playtime on a single charge has improved too, going from 8 hours to 12 hours. New for the Micro 2 is the ability to charge a device like a phone or a tablet off the speaker in case you need a top up on the hiking trail. Lastly, Tribit has improved the Bluetooth range on the Micro 2, squeezing 120 feet of range out of it (up from 100 feet) so you can wander a bit further from the campsite with your phone while your friends still enjoy the tunes.
Still one of the best budget Bluetooth speakers around, the Micro 2 comes in black, blue, and mint colors.
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Marshall Middleton Classic amp looks, classically clear sound Big soundstage for a small package Bold bass, clear highs IP67 waterproof and dustproof AUX input Stackable Picks up dust and fingerprints easily A bit expensive The only thing keeping the Marshall Middleton from the top spot on our list is its $300 price tag, which perhaps puts it just a little out of reach for many. But if you're looking to up your Bluetooth speaker game from budget to the next step up, you cannot go wrong with the Middleton.
Not too big and not too small, the 4.29 by 9.06 by 3.74-inch (109 by 230 by 95 mm) Middleton is compact enough to put in a backpack or beach bag (it's also IP67 water and dust proof) but don't let that fool you. The Middleton's two 3-inch, side-firing woofers are powered by two 20-watt class D amps that can pump it out, while a set of drivers consisting of a 0.6-inch tweeter and a passive radiator fires sound out the front and it mirrored on the back, bringing the driver count to six to deliver what Marshall calls "True Stereophonic" sound. And it works. There's a good stereo separation from the Middleton, and the sound is clean, full-ranged, and big for a chassis of its size.
Bluetooth connectivity is of the SBC variety, and while it would have been nice to see AAC at this price, sound is still great but if you like you can use the line-in AUX input to hardwire a device to the Marshall if you have hi-res streaming from Tidal or Apple Music you'd like to listen to. The well-designed Marshall app's "Stack" mode allows you to link multiple MIddletons together for even bigger sound. The app also has EQ features for fine-tuning your sound.
Many Bluetooth speakers these days are forgoing physical buttons, forcing you to use an app for everything, which can be annoying if your phone's not close. The Middleton's physical controls are well placed on the top of the rugged unit and include a bright gold button for power, volume, and track skip control. There are also physical controls for bass and treble, Bluetooth pairing, and activating Stack mode. Helpful red LEDs also indicate batter power, volume, and treble and bass levels when adjusting them.
Perhaps helping to justify the extra cash for the Middleton is its ample 20-hour battery, which puts it out in front of many competitors in the price range, such as the JBL Pulse 5 and even the Sonos Move. If you've got the means, the Marshall Middleton is one of the best Bluetooth speakers we've come across in a while.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Soundboks Go A Bluetooth speaker with big sound Great sound at loud volumes Sturdy cabinet and bumpers Good battery life Effective app support Awesome when paired with other speakers Not as useful indoors Limited codec support Pricey Sometimes you just need a speaker that can get really loud. And when it comes to big decibel levels, not many can compete with the Soundboks Go.
Equipped with dual 72-watt Class D amplifiers, a single 10-inch woofer, and a silk dome tweeter, the Soundboks Go can output up to 121 decibels of crisp, clear, and loud sound. At full volume, you can expect this titan of a speaker to last up to 10 hours, but keeping the sound at mid-levels will net you closer to 40 hours of playtime.
If you think you're going to need more juice in a pinch, you can purchase additional Soundboks batteries so you can swap out the power source and keep the party going. And for those that require a complete mountain of sound, the Soundboks Go can be paired with up to five additional Go speakers.
The Soundboks Go can also take quite the beating. Splash-proof, dent-proof, but lightweight enough to carry around with its built-in handle, you'll be able to rock out with the Soundboks Go day or night, rain or shine.
Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends / .
Sony SRS-XG300 The best boombox design Nice and rugged build Great sound quality LEDs are cool Easy pairing and app support Party Connect works well Solid battery life Only one custom EQ setting allowed Phone calls could be better Sony is no straggler when it comes to producing some of the best audio products you can find on shelves, and while the company may not possess the same market presence as competitors when it comes to Bluetooth products, the amazing XRS-XG300 shouldn’t be passed up.
Weighing only 6.6 pounds, the XG300 is the cosmetic equivalent of a carry-around boombox. Touting up to 25 hours of battery life, topping up the cell is simple with the included USB-C charge cable, giving you an additional 70 minutes of playtime for only 10 minutes of re-juicing. Better yet, the additional USB-A will allow you to charge up devices like phones and tablets, turning the XG300 into a bonafide power brick.
And in terms of overall sound quality, there’s onboard support for Sony’s LDAC hi-res codec, along with AAC and SBC audio formats. Sans the on-paper specs, the XG300 sounds fantastic, with plenty of low-end even without the Mega Bass function enabled and lots of articulation in the mid- and high-range frequencies, too.
The IP67 rating also means you won’t have to worry about taking the speaker to the beach or near water. While we wish the call quality could be better (although integrated call options are a bit of a rarity for Bluetooth speakers overall), the Sony SRS-XG300 is one of our favorite boombox replicas for your next aquatic excursion.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 Excellent sound for its size Loud, dynamic sound Easy to use Waterproof Great battery life Some functionality only supports Apple Music/Deezer With 20 hours of battery life, the ability to withstand both dust and water, and sound quality that makes you forget it's a Bluetooth speaker, the UE Megaboom 3 is an ideal portable companion.
The Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 lacks a lot of features you might find in some other Bluetooth speakers, like the ability to take phone calls, plug in an external music source, or charge up your phone. So why would we pick it? Simple: The UE Megaboom 3 sounds amazing — so good in fact, that we'd happily give up those extra features to get this kind of sound. Then there's the weekend's worth of battery life, and the Megaboom 3's beach-proof construction — it's IP67 rated for dust and water, can stand being submerged, and it floats! Add its attractive design and clever multifunction button, and you've got a Bluetooth speaker that will make any setting feel like your own private listening lounge.
The Boom app is easy to navigate around and offers a ton of features like custom EQing, remote volume and on/off control, and the PartyUp feature that lets you connect up to 150 UE speakers together (limited to the Boom 3, Megaboom, 3, and Hyberboom speakers, but you can combine them).
Even though this Ultimate Ears speaker has been round for a while and likely needs a refresh (we reviewed it back in 2018), it still holds its own, maintaining UE's reputation for big sound in small packages.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Bose Soundlink Revolve+ Series II Amazing Bose sound, with smart speaker skills 17-hour battery life 360-degree sound Remembers the last eight connected devices On the expensive side The smart home speaker niche is quickly growing, and Bose’s Soundlink Revolve+ Series II is one of the best all-around.
With an IP55 rating for dirt, debris, and water-splash protection, the Revolve+ Series II is perfect for a day at the beach and pool parties. And not to worry if you've got a big yard to fill with sound, for like its predecessor, the Series II is designed for an immersive 360-degree sound that sounds great no matter where you place it. The speaker is also smart enough to remember the last eight Bluetooth devices that were linked to it.
In terms of battery life, the Series II sees a decent boost in charge, netting you 17 hours on a single charge as opposed to the original Revolve's 13 hours.
Speaking of smart: The Bose Soundlink Revolve+ Series II also features built-in Alexa support for controlling your smart home, managing your daily schedule, streaming your favorite music services, and more. While it's one of the higher-priced offerings of our roundup, the portability, performance, and feature set of the Revolve+ Series II are hard to beat.
More Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends LG XBoom XL7 party karaoke speaker Best Bluetooth party speaker It's loud Sound is balanced and distortion-free Telescoping handle and smooth wheels 20-hour battery Fun LED light and DJ features Karaoke mic and guitar inputs Excellent app LED lights aren't that bright No stereo sound Guitar input sound isn't great OK, so the massive LG XBoom party XL7 speaker isn't "portable" in the same way as the other Bluetooth speakers on our list, but with its suitcase-style telescopic handle and smooth rubber wheels, you'd be surprised just how portable this karaoke party on wheels can be.
One of a whole deluge of large party speakers hitting the market from the likes of Klipsch , Sony , JBL , and others, LG's XBoom lineup more than hold their own, and the XL7 is the flagship of them all. Its $600 price tag is easily matched by its 250-watt output, which, as our review points out, is enough volume to please crowds of dancing partygoers or send a message to your late-night noisy neighbors that you can dish out the sound, too.
At a hefty 34.2 pounds and sized at 27.6 inches in height and 12.2 inches x 12.4 inches in width and depth, the XBoom XL7 is loud, but we were surprised that all that volume doesn't come at the expense of clarity, soundstage, and definition, even at its peak volumes, which is pumped out via an 8-inch woofer, two 2.5-inch tweeters, and a pair of passive woofer ports for extra, er, boom.
All controlled by the well-designed LG XBoom app, there are several EQ presets to get the party up and running fast, or users can create a custom EQ profile to suit their own tastes. The app also controls the XL7's LED lighting effects, which include a customizable color ring around the main woofer and a "Pixel LED" panel that has several dot-animated scenes that sits above the woofer that can be customized with text and messages.
The app is also the hub for the XL7's DJ and karaoke features, the former of which lets would-be Jazzy Jeff's add samples for sound effects, fire off air horn shots, hand-claps, and even scratch with turntable-style digital scratch pad in the app. Two 1/4-inch inputs on the back panel of the speaker open up another party world by allowing users to plug in a microphone and even a guitar for karaoke for days. The app controls this, too, and you can stream music from sources like Spotify (the app magically strips back the vocals in the songs so yours can come through) or a USB drive. The karaoke feature has a list of vocal effects like reverb, a weird robot filter, and can even make you sound like you're singing a duet.
The LG XBoom XL7 will last up to 20 hours on a charge with the LEDS off, and can be recharged in just 3.5 hours.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Ultimate Ears Hyperboom Best for bass Simple setup, easy music playback Variety of source options Excellent battery life Impressive low end Lacks Wi-Fi compatibility Less portable than predecessors If you're looking for a speaker you can chuck in your swimming pool, the Hyperboom isn't the pick for you. But this IPX4-protected party monster is one of the best sounds with big bass you're going to find outside of a dedicated stereo or home theater system.
Under the armor, the Hyperboom houses precision woofers, passive radiators, and soft dome tweeters to achieve one of the best overall soundstages of any speaker on our list. This is also thanks to the Boom's adaptive EQ. Indoors or outdoors, the Boom knows when it's moved, and balances sound output based on the environment it's placed in.
The pullout strap of the Ultimate Ears Hyperboom makes it easy to load and unload the speaker at your next gathering. This is also one of our favorite speakers for sharing. Four dedicated inputs mean you can have four devices all paired at once, so you can switch between devices and playlists with ease.
The 24-hour battery guarantees undisturbed listening sessions no matter where you go and the USB charge-out port is a convenient add-on for giving your phone a quick battery boost.
Frequently Asked Questions These days, it seems like you can't turn around without knocking over a Bluetooth speaker. With so many to choose from, it can be hard to nail down which is best for your needs. The first things we recommend thinking about before deciding are how and where you'll be using your Bluetooth speaker.
If you're primarily using it indoors and leaving it there, for example, then the field of choices opens up dramatically in terms of size and durability considerations — you can go as big and feature-filled as your budget will allow. If portability and the outdoors is your jam, then read on...
If you're an on-the-go type, you're going to want to consider portability and ruggedness. There are plenty of portable Bluetooth speakers with durable rubber features that can withstand being dropped and banged around inside a backpack. And if your travels should take you to the great outdoors, poolside, or beachfront, consider getting a speaker with a good IP rating to stave off any water or dust. IP67, for example, will actually let you submerge the device for a short period of time (read below for more on that).
When it comes to sound features, give some thought to how you want to use your Bluetooth speaker. If you're fussy about sound, put sound quality at the top of the list. If you want something loud to fill a room at get-togethers, you may want to err on the bigger side, although there are several smaller speakers that pump out some volume, too, and even compact speakers that can be chained together and placed around the room for the ultimate in flexibility and a big sound.
The good news is that there are plenty of Bluetooth speakers to choose from that are bound to hit on every one of your priority needs, making it easier than ever to find the right fit.
Pairing (or Bluetooth pairing) : When using Bluetooth speakers, pairing means the literal process of connecting wirelessly between your speaker and your specific device.
IPXX : IP stands for “Ingress Protection,” and this number serves as a rating for electronic devices. This first number represents exactly how resistant your tech is to dust; the second number measures water resistance. It’s a simple process to follow, and the higher the number, the most resistant it is to that environmental influence. For example, a device with an IP67 rating means that this device is dust-tight and can be submerged underwater for up to 1 meter, or about 3 feet, for 30 minutes. If you’re hoping to bring your Bluetooth speaker to the pool, lake, or anywhere near water, we recommend you consider only using devices with a rating of at least IPX7.
NFC : Shorthand for Near Field Communication, this oft-touted feature is actually quite limited when it comes to Bluetooth speakers, allowing select phones to pair with a speaker with a quick touch. Since pairing is often as simple as pressing a button, and speakers will be remembered by your device once paired, it's not seen as a must-have feature.
AptX : Another feature limited to phones and devices outside of Apple’s periphery, AptX is a codec (or group of codecs) said to allow Bluetooth streaming at “near CD quality” resolution. Apple products do not use AptX, but Android users may find it improves performance when paired with high-quality tracks and high-performance speakers. AptX Adaptive is the latest and greatest version of this codec, but both the source device and Bluetooth speaker must support it for you to get any benefit.
Passive radiator : This term represents a kind of driver that helps magnify bass within your speaker. If you have a sealed speaker enclosure, which means there are no portholes, a passive radiator essentially reacts to slight changes in the air pressure within the enclosure. Each fluctuation results in sound. Passive radiators do not have to be powered by amps. Furthermore, the device is often lighter than other traditional drivers or speakers because it comes with no magnet or voice coil. That production design saves you a bit of cash, creates a more compact and portable device, and upgrades your speaker’s overall sound.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday soundbar deals: Save on Samsung, Bose, and more The best waterproof wireless earbuds for 2023 Best cheap headphones and earbuds 2023: Jabra, 1More, and others The best kids headphones of 2023: for fun, safety, and more Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more Best Products Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Audio / Video The best TVs of 2023 are all models that deliver exceptional picture quality, solid motion clarity, and intuitive streaming platforms. But beyond watching movies and shows, these TVs should also deliver a phenomenal gameplay experience, whether you’re a Playstation 5 household or a Nintendo Switch devotee.
Unfortunately, some TV brands don't put as much into gaming optimizations as others, but there are many great gaming TVs out there, so we put together this guide that breaks down some of our favorite gaming TVs giving a couple of choices for budget, midrange, and premium TVs.
Audio / Video While the latest TVs get bigger, brighter, thinner, and offer ever-more gobsmacking picture quality, one of the sacrifices of all this sophisticated tech has, and perhaps always will be, sound. But there's no reason anyone has to settle for poor TV sound when there's such a great selection of soundbars out there to satisfy a range of budgets and features. And while we'd always recommend a complete AV receiver and set of speakers first, a great soundbar can bring big and full sound to your TV and movies with better dialog clarity and impact.
A soundbar can deliver room-filling immersive sound with Dolby Atmos support while others come with subwoofers and additional surround speakers you can mount on a wall to save space, and some are even wireless. Some have big booming volume while others are more suited to smaller rooms like apartments, and some are just designed to blow you away completely, like the 3,000-watt Nakmichi Dragon. There's a soundbar for every situation and budget.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
