Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best bookshelf speakers 2023: from passive to powered and for every budget By Michael Bizzaco Close The best speakers come in all shapes and sizes, but if you’re looking for the Goldilocks middle-ground between “bite-sized” and “monolithic,” we’re betting that a solid set of bookshelf speakers will fit the bill. As the name indicates, these are speakers that are usually no taller than a foot or two, making them ideal for placing on, er, bookshelves, speaker stands, and even certain types of wall mounts.
But like all things audio, not every set of bookshelf speakers is created equal. There are speaker brands and models that sell for less than $150, and flagship brands that will run you over $2,000. There are also some bookshelf speakers that are best used for computer setups, while others are best relegated to the back of a surround sound system.
That’s why we’ve put together this list of the best bookshelf speakers that covers everything from affordable listening to speakers that you can connect your record player to.
More Bowers & Wilkins Bowers & Wilkins 607 S3 Best overall bookshelf speakers Classy design Rich and balanced B&W sound Energetic in the mids and highs Excellent for jazz, classical, and singer-songwriter genres A bit pricey Not ideal for hard rock and metal When it comes to audio royalty, Bowers & Wilkins is a brand that deserves all the prestige it can get (not that it's wanting for it). From its amazing floor-standing speakers to its subs and satellites, B&W’s dedication to quality and performance always shines through. And as far as bookshelf speakers go, we can’t think of a better name to call our favorite.
The model of choice is the B&W 607 S3s , and we can’t stop talking about how much we love them. With their elegant design and two-way configuration, the 607 S3 look regal no matter where you place them; a visual that perfectly matches up to the pristine and detailed performance you’ll get from this stereo setup. Compared to the previous B&W 607 S2 s, a new titanium dome tweeter has been implemented, which gives the S3 generation elevated reach in the higher-frequency range.
The overall soundstaging on the S3s is wide and immersive. In execution, the B&W 607 S3s are best used as hi-fi speakers, but with a little finesse, they work pretty well with most home theater setups , too. When it comes to music playback, we would be careful with genre-matching, though. B&W speakers are stellar for jazz, classical, and vocally-driven singer-songwriter tracks.
This isn’t to say you can’t head-bang to a little Metallica with them, but you may be a bit disappointed by the 607 S3’s lack of aggression — adding a subwoofer can help with that. These are exquisite and refined bookshelf speakers that do quite a nice job at shining a light on your music.
Amazon Audioengine A1-MR Best budget-friendly powered bookshelf speakers Compact size Great wireless connectivity options Solid sound quality Not ideal for home theater systems We love Audioengine products here at Digital Trends, so there was no way we weren’t going to feature something from the company’s catalog in our bookshelf speaker roundup. And what better badge of honor to fly home with than “best budget-friendly powered speakers?” At only half a foot tall, the Audioengine A1-MR deliver the kind of sound we’d expect from much larger speakers, and that’s all thanks to the type of engineering and build that go into these bad boys. In terms of audio, we think you’ll be surprised at how much bass and high frequency articulation the A1-MRs can pull off. That’s also thanks to the cabinetry and drivers, which include a 3/4-inch tweeter and a 2-3/4-inch aramid woofer for each speaker.
As far as physical connections go, you’ll have access to a 3.5mm auxiliary port and an LFE output if you feel like adding a subwoofer. The former is good enough for plugging in a phone or tablet, but where the A1-MR truly shine is in the wireless department. Once you’ve downloaded the Audioengine Control app (for iOS and Android ), you’ll be able to add the A1-MR to your Wi-Fi network, which unlocks a bevy of music-streaming options.
This includes AirPlay and Spotify , as well as hi-res audio options via the likes of Tidal, Qobuz, and A mazon Music support, amongst other platforms. When networked, you can also use the Control app to group and change what audio sources are playing on what speakers. Add up to 12 A1-MRs to the same Wi-Fi network, or invest in the Audioengine B-Fi streamer to control up to 12 full audio systems (including non-Audioengine speakers). Small but mighty, all for just over $200.
More Marshall Acton II speaker is $100 off ahead of Black Friday The best subwoofers for 2023: from SVS, Klipsch, KEF, and more Sonos Move smart speaker just got a big discount Crutchfield Wharfedale Diamond 12.1 Best budget-friendly passive bookshelf speakers Great way to fill out your surround sound Refined aesthetic Great sound No Wi-Fi or Bluetooth connectivity Wharfedale doesn’t beat around the bush, and we appreciate all the straight-shooters of the world. This is an audio company that builds and engineers speakers to give you incredible sound, and they’re not going to cost you too much either. In the case of the Wharfedale Diamond 12.1 bookshelf speakers, the brand continues to score big in the quality department, while keeping our bank accounts intact.
This time around, Wharfedale is working with mica-infused polypropylene, incorporating the materials into the Diamond 12.1’s 5-inch Klarity woofer. This helps the cone to maintain its shape and to respond to audio signals as quickly as possible, meaning you won’t have to worry about missing a single detail in your favorite songs.
At only 15 pounds each, these speakers aren’t too heavy to move around either. Seeing as we’re working with passive wiring though, we assume wherever you first place the Diamond 12.1 is where they’ll continue to live for years, as long as you keep them in good condition, which means giving them a cleaning every once in a while. Unlike other items on our list, this also means you won’t find features like Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity on these speakers either.
The Diamond 12.1 are best paired with an amplifier that dishes out 20 to 100 watts per channel, and the speakers sound great across a wide range of music genres. But what about home theater usage? For surround sound configurations, we actually recommend using the Diamond 12.1 as rears (we also recommend installing banana plugs to your speaker wire for easier connecting and disconnecting). While they can hold their own as front stereo channels, the kind of nuance and subtlety that a presence speaker requires is more in-line with the Diamond’s capabilities.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos Era 100 Best Wi-Fi bookshelf speakers Big, expansive sound Bluetooth now built-in Optional analog line-in Super-easy room tuning No Google Assistant option Wi-Fi music streaming is a next-level experience. And when it comes to Wi-Fi-equipped bookshelf speakers, Sonos is one of the top names in the game. About as intuitive as plug-and-play operation gets, the Sonos Era 100 is the company’s next-gen version of its Sonos One speakers , and they’re everything we could want from the brand’s latest and greatest.
Considering the Era 100’s woofer is 25% larger than the Sonos One’s, we expected some fairly big sound from the speaker, but in our testing of the product, we were utterly blown away by its decibel delivery. Listeners can expect well-balanced mids, crystalline treble, and punchy low-end performance. Sure, there’s some distortion at extremely high volumes, but considering how much reach the Era is capable of at only 60% or 70% volume, we doubt you’ll need to crank it past 11 (if you know, you know).
Like Sonos speakers of years past, the iOS-friendly TruePlay feature is here, but with a new twist for Android devotees. Thanks to some improvements to the calibration tool, Android device owners can now use the Era’s built-in mic to calibrate audio to a listening space. Technically though, this is the “quick” version of the function though, and the more advanced version of TruePlay is still an iOS exclusive. We've also got a helpful roundup on how to place and position any Sonos speakers , including the Era 100s, anywhere in your home.
On top of Wi-Fi connectivity, the Era 100 also supports Bluetooth and Apple AirPlay. You’ll also be able to control the speaker using both the Sonos S2 app ( iOS and Android ) and Alexa. Due to an ongoing dispute between Sonos and Google though, you won’t be able to interact with the speaker using Google Assistant.
Amazon Kanto YU6 powered speakers Best bookshelf speakers for turntables Fun design Numerous analog and digital ports Nice sound Built-in phono preamp No Wi-Fi connectivity Lackluster remote No app Hi-fi listening is particularly satisfying when you’ve got the right speakers working with the right record player or turntable.
 Finding this ideal matchup can be difficult though, which is why we’re glad that the talented minds at Kanto have developed the YU6 model. At first glance, these look like just about every other pair of affordable bookshelf speakers out there, but the YU6 houses an entire hub of inputs and outputs. Oh, and chief amongst these ports is the hard-to-find built-in phono preamp for wiring up your record player.
This means you can interface your turntable directly with the Kanto YU6 bookshelf speakers, so no worrying about integrating a separate amplifier or receiver. Decibel output maxes out at 200 watts and hovers around 100 watts RMS for the average-listening volume, which means these puppies can get plenty loud for whatever listening space you need to fill. We can also thank the YU6’s 5.25-inch Kevlar driver, 1-inch silk dome tweeter, and handcrafted MDF cabinetry for giving these speakers extra power and personality.
Even if you don’t plan on hooking up a turntable , the Kanto YU6 are also a phenomenal set of bookshelf speakers for Bluetooth. Once paired to your phone, tablet, or computer, the YU6’s Qualcomm aptX support guarantees some incredibly detailed sound when streaming music from platforms like Apple Music, Tidal, and Qobuz.
While we do wish there was a companion app to go along with these speakers, the included remote control does let you adjust tone, balance, volume, and playback. The YU6 also come in several different finishes (bamboo, walnut, and white), so you’ll be able to snag a pair that best matches your LP lair as you build your record collection to respectable heights.
Best Buy Edifier S1000W Wireless Hi-Fi Bookshelf speakers Best for connectivity options Extremely versatile Supports hi-res formats Great Alexa integration Loud and clear sound No LFE output The Edifier S1000W is the type of speaker that houses many amazing capabilities, but without being all in-your-face about it. Seemingly, this is just a beautiful pair of powered bookshelf speakers that happen to sound great, too. What we actually have on our hands though is an excellent set of wireless hi-fi speakers that are built to tackle whatever audio sources you have in mind.
In terms of connectivity options, the usual suspects are all here, including Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, digital optical, coaxial, and analog RCA. But when you consider the fact that the S1000W supports 24-bit/192kHz playback, the $550 price becomes quite the steal. Being able to listen to lossless recordings is a privilege normally reserved for a stellar pair of headphones (that may cost as much as the S1000W), which makes the S1000W even more appealing.
We’re also big fans of the Alexa integration. Having a bunch of Echo speakers scattered around your home can start to make one manic, so the fact that the S1000W has its own far-field mic system is a bit of a blessing. This means you’ll be able to enjoy the full benefits of your Alexa ecosystem, without adding another Echo Dot to your living room.
While the addition of an LFE output would sweeten the deal even further, we can’t fault Edifier for not wanting to introduce the extra signal path. Plus, the company is cool enough to give you access to the Edifier Home app (for iOS and Android ), which you can use to stream tunes via AirPlay, Spotify Connect, and Tidal. The best part? There’s no paywall to have to break through.
Derek Malcolm/Digital Trends Q Acoustics M20 HD Wireless Music System Excellent for computers and beyond Clear, refined sound with any music Wide soundstage in any room Versatility of placement Tons of connectivity options aptX HD Bluetooth A bit big for desktops Better with a subwoofer Computer speakers are a dime a dozen, and the reality is that not many of these products are very good. Sure, for as little as $20 or $30, who wouldn’t want to invest in a pair of desktop monitors that say they sound great on the box? But if you’re the type of person who cares about your PC audio, you should get comfortable with the idea of spending just a little more. And if you really care about your desktop sound, you’ll buy the Q Acoustics M20.
Yup, they’re going to run you $500 after tax, but bear with us here. These powered bookshelf speakers are incredibly versatile. One look at the back of these will reveal a host of analog and digital ports, but you can also enjoy your music wirelessly, thanks to the M20’s Bluetooth 5.0 support. Now throw aptX Bluetooth and hi-res music streaming support on top of it, and you’ve got yourself one handsome speaker sundae.
With its two Class D amps per speaker and excellent cabinet bracing, these are probably best suited for those of us who want a solid set of PC gaming speakers, or even an alternative set of studio monitors for working with music-editing software. This isn’t to say that watching YouTube videos on your MacBook with the M20 won’t be amazing; they just may be a bit overqualified for lighter media.
One or two grievances: We don’t care for the remote, and we wish the speakers could be connected to Wi-Fi. Neither of these qualms are deal-breaking, but the controller is about as plain as they come, and for $500, we’d like more than just Bluetooth for wireless streaming options.
Editors' Recommendations This Harmon Kardon speaker is discounted from $500 to $160 The best wireless headphones for 2023 from Bose, Sony, 1More and more The best speakers for 2023: great hi-fi options for music and more Best Bluetooth speaker deals: Save on Bose, Sonos, JBL, and more Best wireless speakers for 2023: Sonos, Apple, KEF, and more Apps Best Products Audio / Video A great-sounding, reliable Bluetooth speaker is a must-have for music lovers who want to have their music with them no matter where they are. There's seemingly no end to the variety of them on the market for every need and use. From compact waterproof outdoor speakers to those with multiroom features for whole-home listening to audiophile speakers with high-quality Bluetooth codecs (such as aptX or aptX HD), you can find what you're looking for.
Bluetooth speakers have gotten so good over the years, with battery power reaching new heights and sound quality rivaling many passive speaker setups. But our purposes, when we talk about Bluetooth speakers, we mean speakers that are portable, battery-powered, and may also have built-in Wi-Fi capabilities for maximum home-and-away versatility (like the Sonos Roam and Move). If a more stay-at-home Wi-Fi speaker is what you're after, we also have a list of the best wireless speakers you can check out.
Audio / Video Higher temperatures are here to stay, and whether for the beach or the backyard, a portable speaker is a good summer investment. There’s some savings to be had on the JBL Charge 5 Bluetooth speaker at Best Buy today. The popular speaker is marked down to just $150, which is a savings of $30 from its regular price of $180. Free shipping is included with your purchase, as are four free months of Amazon Music Unlimited and four free months of SiriusXM.
Why you should buy the JBL Charge 5 Bluetooth speaker JBL has been making quality portable speakers for some time, with some of them ranking among the best Bluetooth speakers and the best wireless speakers. One of its more popular models is the JBL Charge 5, which is the newest version of its Charge lineup. It produces high quality sound with an optimized long excursion driver, separate tweeter, and dual pumping JBL bass radiators. These deliver rich and clear audio. They sound great with music but can playback movies and other entertainment with great fidelity by connecting to a laptop or other Bluetooth device. The speaker is able to connect to two smartphones or tablets at a time, which makes source audio swappable and a potential community experience.
Audio / Video It's summer, time for beach trips, river floats and camping. All of those things are better when you pair them with music. If you don't have a portable Bluetooth speaker, now is a great time to buy one. For instance, Best Buy currently has the Harman Kardon Onyx Studio 6 for only $200 after a massive $280 discount. This deal is too good to stick around long, so grab it before it's gone.
Why you should buy the Harman Kardon Onyx Studio 6 Bluetooth speaker Harman Kardon, one of the most trusted names in the audio industry and the company behind JBL -- one of the best speaker brands -- is always a great choice when you're looking for a Bluetooth speaker. You won't regret going for the Harman Kardon Onyx Studio 6, which will deliver robust sound to help you better enjoy your favorite music and the audio of the streaming content that you're watching. The speaker connects through Bluetooth, which is extremely easy to use and requires mere seconds to establish a link with your mobile device or computer, according to our wireless speaker buying guide.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
