Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best turntables of 2023 to play your vinyl records By Derek Malcolm Close The convenience and instant availability of music streaming services is undeniable — they have forever changed the way we discover and listen to music. But streaming music has also shown us that there's something to be said for slowing down a bit and enjoying the tactile, tangible things in life, like dropping a needle on a crackly vinyl record and enjoying the artwork on its sleeve.
Whether you're rediscovering that ritual, are new to the world of vinyl , or you're already neck-deep in LPs, having a decent turntable or record player is essential, but there are so many to choose from that it can get confusing. Many come ready to go out of the box, with preinstalled and configured cartridges, built-in phono preamps (that amplify the low signal from the stylus) for easy connection to powered speakers or AV receivers , and a range of features that make them easy to get the hang of. If you're curious and want to dip your toes in slowly, one of our favorite entry-level turntables is the Audio-Technica AT-LP60X , a budget-priced basic deck that looks great, too.
But if you've already taken a few spins around the vinyl world and are looking to upgrade or get into something a little more advanced, like better phono cartridges, external preamps, higher-quality tonearms, and anti-resonant components that can make for a beautifully clear and sonic experience, we've checked out a bunch and also put them on our list of the best turntables. Our current No. 1 pick as the best overall turntable for most people, the Pro-Ject Debut Carbon Evo , fits this bill and is a reliable, upgradeable workhorse that sounds great and doesn't cost a fortune.
But we've got several other turntables on our list to help you decide, and once you do, why not check out our roundup of the best turntable accessories , too. Let's go.
More More More More More Pro-Ject Pro-Ject Debut Carbon Evo Best turntable for most people Warm, defined sound high-quality components for the money No more manual speed change Available in nine finishes Phono preamp is extra If you're just starting your turntable hunting you've likely already come across the Pro-Ject brand (heck, we mention two of them in our intro). The stalwart company is up there with Rega as a standout in the industry, and its decorated Debut Carbon lineup has helped keep it there for more than a decade. Its latest version, the Debut Carbon Evo, doesn't falter either, proving that you don't need to spend a grand or more for high-end features.
Pro-Ject's best-selling turntable model got a few key upgrades in this latest version that have put it over the top, including a redesigned, quieter motor with improved suspension, new height-adjustable sound-dampening aluminum feet, and a heavier 3.7-pound, steel platter with a thermoplastic dampening ring that Pro-Ject says reduces wow and flutter (tiny distortions that can be caused by vibrations and other factors).
The best upgrade, though, is the addition of a new three-speed selector switch that has been discretely mounted on the underside of the plinth. Previously, you'd have to remove the platter to physically move the rubber belt underneath to switch between 33 and 45 RMP records. The new switch is a godsend, and also offers 78 RPM as well.
You also get the Evo's single-piece carbon fiber tonearm, which looks cool and contributes to the turntable's rich, balanced, and quiet sound, but not quite as much as its excellent, re-mounted Sumiko Rainier moving magnet (MM) cartridge, which is punchy, balanced, and full-bodied (like a good beer, I guess). Outside the U.S., the Evo comes with the also-great Ortofon 2M Red installed, but, if you're at the stage where you're experimenting with cartridges, you can easily swap them; it's not hard.
The only obvious thing that the Pro-Ject Debut Carbon Evo doesn't come with is a built-in phono preamp, so you will have to get one (unless you have one already). I really like the Schiit Mani 2 phono preamp , I have two of them and they sound great. You might think is a deal breaker, but I would argue that if you're looking to up your entry-level game with a Carbon Evo, a good external phono preamp will be better than most built-ins if you can stomach the extra few hundred dollars.
The Debut Carbon Evo comes with a semi-balanced RCA cable and is available in nine colors and finishes.
More Derek Malcolm/Digital Trends Fluance RT85N Runner up Full sound that stays true to the source Outstanding Nagaoka MP-110 cartridge Solid, anti-resonant build quality Fuss-free RPM speed control dial Automatic stop feature No built-in phono preamp No Bluetooth or USB connectivity Glossy finish prone to fingerprints The midrange Fluance RT85N blew us away when I reviewed it last year for its more than reasonable $500 price, superb Nagaoka MP-110 cartridge, quality components, and rock-solid build, which, in my opinion, puts it neck-and-neck with the Pro-Ject Debut Evo as an even more affordable option that will do the job just as well.
The star of the RT85N is Nagaoka MP-110, which on its own is a $150 cartridge, but its sound is well regarded as being balanced, and forgiving of a wide range of music styles (it really likes older vinyl, too), with excellent separation between the lows, mids, and high frequencies. In my review, I said of the MP-110 that "vocals sound natural across the board, while the highs stay sharp and clean with a marked reduction in sibilance when compared to cheaper cartridges." All that and, if you wanted to, you could easily switch out the MP-110 for another cartridge of your choosing, making the RT85N upgradeable and future-proof.
Helping that Nagaoka cartridge do its thing is all the anti-resonance happening in the RT85N. The thing is a beast at 17.7 pounds, much of that accounted for in its solid MDF plinth. A 0.62-inch (16mm) thick, high-density clear acrylic platter also helps dampen vibrations, along with its aluminum S-shaped tonearm, and adjustable rubber isolation feet, making the RT85N "one of the quietest, most stable turntables I’ve tested," my review says.
There's no Bluetooth or USB connectivity here, and like the Debut Evo, the RT85N does not have a built-in preamp, but they tend to not sound great anyway, so if you're moving up from a budget or entry-level deck, you're probably better off exploring the word of phono preamps now anyway. The RT85N also has a handy auto-stop feature for those who like to putter around the house while listening to records — it automatically stops at the end of the record, which also saves wear and tear on the stylus.
Setting up the RTN85 is pretty easy, too. Everything you need is in the box, and the instructions are clear. Setup should only take you about 10 or 15 minutes, but in case you're expecting to plug it in and go, there is a higher level of precision required with turntables compared to cheaper decks — it's not a bad thing for you to learn how to attach a headshell and balance a tonearm, and the sweet sounds you'll get will make it all worth it.
More The best soundbars of 2023: a sound upgrade for your TV The world’s first portable record player just got its first big discount The best headphones for swimming in 2023 Derek Malcolm/Digital Trends U-Turn Orbit Theory Best turnable around $1,000 Ortofon 2M Blue or Bronze cartridge New antiresonant tonearm design Easy to set up Electronic speed switch dial Built-in preamp option Fantastic sound for price Only two finish options No auto stop As a long-time owner and fan of the original U-Turn Orbit Custom, when I finally got my hands on the Woburn, Massachusetts company's first foray into the premium turntable realm, I was pretty excited. I've always liked U-Turn's scrappy spirit and that it offers high-quality turntables that are a little different than the big players for a reasonable price. The Orbit Theory is easily U-Turn's best turntable yet, and a fantastic next step for vinyl enthusiasts ready to jump up out of the mid-range.
The rethought Orbit Theory is a strikingly beautiful, hardwood-based turntable that comes in walnut and a new black Ebonized Oak finish. But it's not just easy on the eyes. Building off of the 10-year lineage of the Orbit brand, the upgrades are substantial, including a newly developed molded magnesium tonearm that combines the headshell, arm tube, and pivot housing in one to reduce resonance. The belt drive system is all-new as well. It's more powerful, has a new silicone belt that runs in a machined groove around the side of the platter, and it gets up to speed faster. Plus, I can confirm that it's virtually silent.
And , my favorite part is that U-Turn has finally added a speed switch — no more manual belt changing between 33 and 45 RMP. A set of three anti-resonant and height-adjustable feet are also new to the Theory, further solidifying its quiet properties.
But where we start getting into the real premium territory with the Orbit Theory is with its choice of two excellent cartridges from world-class cartridge makers, Ortofon: the 2M Blue (which comes with the base-model Theory at $999) and the even better 2M Bronze that adds $180 to the price. Either way, you're laughing with how good these cartridges are — they consistently produce big, brilliant, and stable sound that is forgiving for all kinds of music and you can't go wrong with either. If you do go for the Bronze, you add even more opportunity to upgrade further, as the Bronze's cartridge is compatible with two of Ortofon's best styluses, the Black ($575) and Black LVB ($800), pushing you into audiophile territory, should you like.
In true U-Turn fashion, the Orbit Theory is customizable and ranges from $999 with the 2M Blue and without a built-in preamp to the top-of-the-line at $1,249 with the preamp and the 2M Bronze. Whichever way you configure it, the Orbit Theory is an excellent turntable, worthy of our Editor's Choice pick.
More Audio-Technica Audio-Technica AT-LP60X Best budget turntable Inexpensive Plug and play Easy to use Built-in preamp Sounds great for the price Made of mostly plastic No upgradeable cartridge No Bluetooth Many a vinyl beginner has turned to Audio-Technica for their first turntables because the well-established company (they also make world-class headphones and microphones) produces reliable, easy to use, and affordable turntables for pretty much every level and budget.
The AT-LP60X, at just $150, is a great-sounding, stable, plug-and-play turntable that is as easy on the bank balance as it is getting started with. Fine, it's made mostly of plastic and it's not really upgradeable (you can change the ATN3600L stylus, but not the cartridge for something better), but the AT-LP60X's amazing automatic functions are perfect for beginners who might be intimidated by the act of lowering a needle onto a record at first. Its push-button operation lets you simply press a button to play — the tonearm lifts up on its own, moves into place, and lowers gently. When the record's done, the platter stops spinning automatically, and then a press of the stop button lifts the tonearm and moves it back to the starting position. Once you're comfortable, you can also do this manually, so win-win.
A built-in phono preamp with a line level/phono output switch gives you connectivity options for your gear, whether you have powered speakers , an old receiver with a phono input, or something newer with an AUX input instead — you can connect this thing to anything with its included 3.5mm to RCA cable. If Bluetooth is your thing, though, you will not find connectivity with the AT-LP60X, but for $70 more look at the AT-LP60XBT.
If you've got an old box of your dad's 45s or LPs just waiting to be dusted off and played, it's hard to go wrong at this price. It's also available in black, red, brown, and gunmetal to help spruce up your pad.
More Rega Rega Planar 3 Best audiophile turntable Uncompromising quality Best-in-class tonearm Choice of two high-quality cartridges Bright, full, detailed sound Can get expensive Only available in three colors Many turntable nerds count the Rega Planar 3 as the pinnacle, their Holy Grail turntable; the one they'd get if they found a wad of cash in the couch cushions. And they wouldn't be wrong. The Rega name is often the first that comes to mind when you think of audiophile turntables and gear (the Planar 3, while excellent, is actually their mid-range), and the Planar 3 is arguably their most popular, for its reachable price and legendary quality.
With 40 years under its belt, the Planar 3's lightweight, anti-resonant plinth was the mold for many modern turntables that have come after (including several on this list). It's, of course, come a long way since then, having undergone several iterations and upgrades, and it's this design expertise that few can compete with. The current Planar 3 features the latest version of their iconic RB330 tonearm that offers amazing balance, stability, and industry-leading anti-resonance. It's a belt-driven turntable, of course, with a new 24-volt low-vibration motor that's nearly silent and that drives the Planar 3's eye-catching glass platter.
While there is no built-in preamp (turntables at this level rarely have them) and no speed selector switch, when coupled with the Rega Neo power supply , you can bypass the finicky manual belt switching and get precise 33 or 45 RMP speed control with a button push.
But how does it sound? Well, you don't get a reputation like Rega's for sounding like garbage — it sounds big and warm, the soundstage is wide, and the mids and highs are detailed, allowing you to hear just what the artist intended, with no coloration.
The Planar 3 comes in a few different configurations, including on its own without a cartridge that runs around $1,125, with Rega's own outstanding Elys 2 MM cartridge ($1,395), and another with the also excellent Ortofon 2M Blue ($1,364). You can, of course, upgrade to a multitude of other cartridges out there, too. The turntable is as quiet as it gets, sounds gorgeous, and looks it too. Rega also does a good job at making the Planar 3 customizable with upgradeable parts, such as belts, platters, and more. The Rega Planar 3 is available in three glossy finishes: black, white, and red.
Audio-Technica Audio-Technica AT-LP140XP Best turntable for DJs Rock-solid build Heavy and stable Affordable Instant speed, pitch control No built-in preamp All the turntables on our list, so far, have been belt-drive turntables, which are best for most people because of their simple operation and the fact that they tend to be quieter because the motors that spin are usually off to the side and do not directly contact the platter.
Direct drive turntables, however, are a different beast, as their motors usually sit directly under the platter and often drive them, er, directly. While there is much debate over which is better, DJs favor direct drive decks because they can get up to speed almost instantly, can spin records in both directions without damaging the motor, and often have tempo control sliders for mixing.
One of, if not the best DJ turntables ever made, is arguably the Technics SL-1200, but they are hard to come by and even the new versions of them can get expensive. Enter Audio-Technica, whose SL-1200-inspired LP140XP direct-drive turntable is tailor-made for DJs, but at a way more manageable $500 price.
Similar to Audio-Technica's massively popular AT-LP120, the LP140XP is a beast of a 22-pound turntable that is stable as hell with four sure-footed adjustable feet and a die-cast aluminum platter that is damped underneath with a dense, felt-like material for anti-resonance. Where the LP140XP differs from its LP120 cousin is that it does not come with a built-in phono preamp (most DJs will have some form of amplification anyway), and it trades out the standard workhorse AT-VM95E cartridge for the hotter, more DJ-friendly AT-XP3 cartridge instead. The headshell comes pre-mounted, so all you have to do is balance the tonearm with the included instructions and you'll be spinning in no time. A-T's solid anti-skate mechanism is here, too, to keep the stylus tracking in the groove properly.
Speaking of spinning, the DJ controls include a pitch-control slider, pitch lock, forward/reverse buttons, and the classic pop-up platter strobe light. It doesn't have Bluetooth or USB connectivity (for that look to the LP120XBT-USB ), but the AT-LP140XP will spin at 33, 45, and 78 RPM, and is an easy-to-use, straightforward DJ's dream.
Derek Malcolm/Digital Trends Victrola Stream Carbon Best for Sonos integration Sound is excellent Quality Ortofon 2M Red cartridge Easy wireless setup Connects to any Sonos in your house Big, universal volume dial Clean, modern look Expensive Basic app Motor is a bit noisy Sonos makes some of the finest network music streaming speakers and audio products out there. And whether you've already invested your hard-earned cash into one or two Sonos speakers or a whole-home Sonos setup, it makes sense that if you're going to start getting in to vinyl that you might want to utilize those speakers, if you can, instead of shelling out for a whole new sound system.
There are several ways to integrate a turntable with a Sonos system , but Victrola is one of the first companies to come forth with a "Works with Sonos" certified turntable that can connect directly to any Sonos speaker or system without the use of another Sonos connectivity product like the Port, Amp, or one of Sonos' line-in speakers like the Era lineup. And it's dead simple for pretty much anyone.
The Victrola Stream Carbon (there's also a slightly cheaper version, the Stream Onyx) is a modern-looking, solidly built turntable (it weighs a stable 13 pounds) with some high-end components, such as its Ortofon 2M Red cartridge , dense MDF plinth, cast aluminum platter, and anti-resonant carbon fiber tonearm. It has a built-in analog-to-digital converter that translates the analog signal from your records into a 24-bit/48kHz digital signal that sounds sweet when streamed out over your Sonos system.
Setup is easy with the bare-bones, but functional Victrola Stream app, and once the turntable is connected, all the rest is done via the easy-to-use Sonos app. Simply choose the speakers or groups of speakers you want your record to play on. The Stream Carbon can also be played through a traditional analog setup, like a receiver and set of passive speakers.
More Frequently Asked Questions Like many things we review at Digital Trends, we test turntables and record players from differing points of view — those with little experience with the tech and those familiar with it — so we can relay the details in a way that's meaningful to both. From unboxing and setup to explaining all its features, we use each turntable we get just as you would, by using and evaluating everything it can do and how easy and fun/frustrating it is to do it. We do this all while playing a lot of records to examine the most important thing: how it sounds. We play a wide range of music to test out the lows, mids, highs, and everything in-between, while listening for clarity, distortion, soundstage, and any anomalies that might appear.
Check out our full rundown on how we test turntables.
A belt-driven turntable uses a thin rubber or silicone belt that is wrapped around the platter (either on the outside edge or underneath, for example) that is, in turn, wrapped around a spindle connected to a motor that is usually set off to the side of the platter. A direct-drive turntable's motor usually sits directly beneath the platter and the two are, er, directly connected. There are advantages and disadvantages to both.
Belt-drive turntables tend to be preferred by audiophiles because, due to the offset and isolated nature of the motor and the use of the rubber belt, vibrations and resonance are kept to a minimum, therefore they are much quieter. Direct-drive turntables, on the other hand, are preferred by DJs because the platter's direct connection to the motor means they can get up to speed much quicker. Because there's no belt getting in the way, direct-drive decks can also be played backwards, stopped more easily, and are generally more forgiving of all the cueing and syncing uses of DJs. The trade-off is that the vibrations from the motor can be directly transferred to the cartridge and hence through the audio system.
Yes, they can be. Without getting too into the weeds about hi-res audio and Bluetooth codecs , a turntable streaming music over Bluetooth to a Bluetooth speaker or set of headphones must do two things. First, it must convert the analog sound form the record's grooves into a digital signal and then it must compress that signal to a reasonable amount of information that can be sent wirelessly over Bluetooth.
Often, this can strip music of some of its detail and resolution, and some vinyl purists think that this defeats the whole purpose of vinyl records, which typically have excellent audio fidelity. Will most people notice? No. Will most people care? Also no. As long as it sounds good to you, that's all that matters.
There are, however, Bluetooth codecs, such as Qualcomm's aptX HD , that are allowing for much better sound quality over Bluetooth, making it a better experience and more convenient option. This also has its caveats, though. For this to work, both the turntable and the receiving Bluetooth speaker must support the aptX HD codec.
Alternatively, a Wi-Fi or LAN network-based system, such as Sonos with a compatible turntable (see the Stream Carbon turntable above), can convert vinyl records at a much higher sound quality than Bluetooth and can stream much higher amounts of digital data for high-resolution sound.
A phono preamp (also known as a phono stage) can be either an internal component in a turntable or an external unit that a turntable is connected to. Either way, it's job is to take the generally weak signal that comes from a turntable's stylus (needle) and cartridge and prepare it to be amplified by either a receiver, integrated amplifier, powered speaker, or other amplification device.
Many modern turntables come with phono preamps built-in, generally giving users everything they need to get their records amplified and booming out a pair of speakers. However, some built-in phono preamps (especially those in budget turntables) aren't very good, and many higher-end turntables still do not even have preamps built-in. For these reasons, you may need to purchase an external phono preamp. And that's not necessarily a bad thing, as adding an external phono stage is a great way to improve the stability and sound quality of your turntable's signal, so you might want to consider it.
And if you happen to have a receiver or amplifier that has a phono input, that will act as your preamp, so you don't need one if you like how it sounds. You can always opt to use a phono stage anyway and connect through the amp's AUX input, like many people do.
Editors' Recommendations The best OLED TV of 2023 is $700 off: 77-inch LG C3 OLED Best network music streamers 2023: make your hi-fi smarter Best bookshelf speakers 2023: from passive to powered and for every budget The best Blu-ray players for 2023 The best HDMI switchers for 2023 to make the most of your TV’s inputs Best Products Audio / Video Modern tech has brought many things into the home that used to be way too expensive to even consider. One of those things is projectors, which you used to only be able to access in places like movie theaters. But nowadays projectors are easily utilized in home theater setups, with even some of the best projectors on the market being more affordable than most people realize. This is especially true when you factor in some of the projector deals taking place right now. Whether you’re on a budget or looking to build one of the more impressive home theaters on the block, there’s plenty of projector deals to choose from.
RCA 480P LCD projector — $59, was $79 The RCA 480p LCD projector is proof that pretty much anyone can bring the movie theater experience into their home. This is one of the most affordable projectors you’ll find, and while it doesn’t boast HD resolution, it can still produce a very watchable image. It’s great for improvised movie nights or for providing some background entertainment at parties and other gatherings. It projects onto any flat surface and delivers a screen size that ranges from 30 inches all the way up to 130 inches for an immersive viewing experience.
Audio / Video Woot! has got a huge discount on a unique way to listen to music. If you’ve been shopping for one of the best Bluetooth speakers, one thing you may want to check out before making a purchase is this deal on a Victrola Bluetooth suitcase record player. It’s portable and has speakers built right in, and it’s marked down to just $20 at Woot!. This is a savings of $40, as it regularly costs $60.
Why you should buy the Victrola Bluetooth portable record player Vinyl isn’t just a way people listened to music a long time ago. Many people find it to be the highest quality audio there is, preferring analog recordings to digital creations. The Victrola Bluetooth portable record player is a nice marriage of the two, as it brings modern smarts and connectivity to a classic way to listen to music. While you can listen to your music on vinyl with this record player, you can also connect your smartphone and play music through the record players internal speakers from there as well. This brings all of the best free music apps into play when it comes to DJing parties and gatherings from the Victrola.
Audio / Video More than a decade ago, my first ever turntable was the Audio-Technica AT-LP120, a beast of a direct-drive machine that starts and stops on a dime, is stable as all hell, and couldn't be easier to use. I still have it, and while I've added several other types and grades of turntables over the years, it's still in regular, er, rotation in my setup.
As far as entry-to-mid-level turntables go, Audio-Technica is one of the best brands out there -- we feature several of them on our best turntables list. If you've been hemming and hawing over getting a new turntable to kick off your vinyl obsession, or maybe you're looking to upgrade your starter deck, now's your chance to get your hands on one of three of Audio Technica's most popular turntables for up to 29% off as part of Amazon Prime Day: the entry-level AT-LP60X, it's Bluetooth-enabled sibling the AT-LP60XBT, and the AT-LP120XUSB, a newer, USB-capable version of my trusty old tank that I mentioned above.
AT-LP120XUSB Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
