Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best waterproof Bluetooth speakers for 2023: from JBL, Marshall, and more By Derek Malcolm and Michael Bizzaco Close The beautiful thing about Bluetooth speakers is that they allow you to bring music to almost any situation, almost anywhere. If anywhere for you happens to be next to a swimming pool, beach, or bathtub, however, then you're going to want a waterproof Bluetooth speaker for sure.
Now, we're not talking about speakers that can take a few drops of rain or a splash from your nephew's cannonball. Many Bluetooth speakers these days are going the distance and are able to withstand total submersion for several minutes in several feet of water and are sealed up tightly enough to keep pumping or are able to recover quickly without damage. Sand and dust are kept at bay, too.
When choosing a waterproof Bluetooth speaker, the global standard rating system is called Ingress Protection, or IP.
 These ratings range from 1 to 6 for dust and dirt and 1 to 9 for water, with the number of digits in the rating indicating how well it withstands exposure to dust, dirt, and liquids, respectively. Most commonly these days, we're seeing Bluetooth speakers with an IP rating of around IP67, which means that they can take being submerged in up to 1.5 meters of water for up to 30 minutes. In addition to things like price and battery life, features like voice assistants, size, and multi-speaker pairing are important factors when choosing.
We've considered all of this in our list of the best waterproof Bluetooth speakers.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Anker Soundcore 3 The best overall waterproof Bluetooth speaker 24-hour battery IPX7-rated Great sound Bluetooth 5.0 connectivity May not be loud enough for some No aux input The Anker Soundcore 3 has the grand distinction of being our best waterproof Bluetooth speaker, and the accolade wasn't bestowed lightly. When assessing any all waterproof speakers, it's all about nailing a great combination of features, sound, and value, and the Soundcore 3 lands perfectly for all criteria.
With its twin set of titanium diaphragms for accenting treble and reducing distortion, paired with the speaker's dual passive radiators for rich and robust bass, the Soundcore 3 sounds just as excellent outside as it does indoors.
The IPX7 rating means you'll be able to pit this speaker against the wet poolside or a rainy weekend. Traveling with the Soundcore 3? As long as you charge it up before you leave home, you'll get 24 hours of playback once you reach the lakeside. But if you need to quickly refuel the speaker, its USB-C connection will get you charged in no time.
It may not have the most blistering of audio features, but the Anker Soundcore 3 delivers an all-around excellent waterproofed package that we're sure most will love.
More Sonos Sonos Roam The best Wi-Fi and Bluetooth speaker Excellent design Lightweight and portable Totally water and dustproof Very good sound for its size Choice of smart speaker assistants Wireless charging No Bluetooth stereo pairing Doesn’t work as a speakerphone Less battery life than some other speakers Sonos is a go-to name in the world of wireless audio, and the Roam is one of the brand's most versatile speakers, having both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi connectivity, like many of our picks in our best wireless speakers roundup.
 Designed for both indoor and outdoor usage, the Roam is IP67-rated, meaning it's completely waterproof. While you don't want to go throwing this speaker directly in the pool (like you can with the UE Wonderboom 2 ), this is one of the best waterproof speakers for keeping just outside the water at your next swimming pool gathering.
The Sonos Roam sounds great, can be controlled with several popular voice assistants (when connected through Wi-Fi, not over Bluetooth), delivers 10 hours of battery life, and is available in several different colors.
While there are no speakerphone capabilities, this is a small add-on that is easily forgotten when you consider all the other powerful capabilities of the Roam, as well as the speaker's competitive $180 price.
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Marshall Middleton Best sounding waterproof Bluetooth speaker Big soundstage for a small package Bold bass, clear highs IP67 waterproof and dustproof AUX input Stackable Picks up dust and fingerprints easily A bit expensive Small enough to throw in a backpack but big enough to provide some truly rich and full sound reminiscent of the rock bands its guitar-amp stylings are based on, the Marshall Middleton impressed us so much that it made our list of the best Bluetooth speakers, period, but its IP67 rating means that it can shred poolside, too.
The Marshall Middleton is the midsized range of Marshall's superb Bluetooth speakers. About the size of a lunch box, the 4-pound Middleton somehow packs two 0.6-inch tweeters, two passive radiators, and two side-firing 3-inch woofers inside its sturdy frame that's covered in Marshall's signature Tolex-style silicone coating.
While many Bluetooth speakers are built with mono or sound mono because the drivers are too close together, the positioning of the Middleton's drivers creates one of the most accurate stereo-like sounds of any Bluetooth speakers we've ever tested. And it's powerful, too. With two 20-watt class D amps for the woofers and two 10-watt class D amps for the tweeters, you'll be blown away by how loud it can get and how smooth and room-filling the bass is.
With a well-designed app that you can use to adjust bass and treble (there are physical controls on the speaker for this, too), it can also be used to link the speaker to as many other Middleton speakers as you want for an even bigger sound in what Marshall calls "Stack" mode.
The Marshall Middleton also features an AUX line input, Bluetooth multipoint connectivity so you and a friend can play DJ, has a battery that lasts up to 20 hours on a single charge, and can net two hours of playtime after 20 minutes of charging. It can also be used as a power bank to charge other devices while you tan.
More Ted Kritsonis/Digital Trends JBL Charge 5 The most versatile waterproof speaker Solid build quality Can get very loud Excellent water and dust protection EQ offers some sound tweaking Works with JBL Portable app and PartyBoost Can't stereo pair with non-Charge 5 JBL speakers Doesn’t work as a speakerphone Not a big upgrade over the Charge 4 The JBL Charge 5 brings an impressive design to the table. Utilizing dual passive radiators, a dedicated midrange woofer, and a tweeter for the most articulate higher frequencies, the sound is big, loud, and detailed.
The IP67 rating means this speaker will hold up well in most outdoor environments, and the 20 hours of playtime will ensure your next pool party won't come crashing to a close — at least not because of the music.
Available in six colors (black, blue, camouflage, gray, red, and teal), and capable of pairing with another Charge 5 using the wireless PartyBoost feature for enhanced stereo sound, the JBL Charge 5 is not going to let you down.
Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends Soundboks Go A big and loud waterproof Bluetooth speaker Great sound at loud volumes Sturdy cabinet and bumpers Good battery life Effective app support Awesome when paired with other speakers Not as useful indoors Limited codec support Pricey Our hands-on experience with the Soundboks Go left us speechless. Sure, the price may be a bit up there for some, but if you're looking for earth-shattering sound that can keep pumping for almost two full days straight (at medium volume), the Soundboks Go is the splash-proof speaker for you.
We also love the ability to pair one Go with another, allowing you to expand your soundstaging. The Go can also take a beating or two, thanks to its rugged outer shell and water-resistant housing, keeping this bad boy safe from most liquid situations outside of full submergence.
Derek Malcolm / Digital trends JBL Pulse 5 Best lightshow waterproof speaker Bright, vivid light features Dustproof, waterproof IP67 rating Clear, dynamic sound Feature-rich app Basic EQing in-app A bit lacking in bass No AUX input Lacks physical controls Never have we tested a Bluetooth speaker that could so adeptly tune in to whatever music vibe you're craving but then pair it with a bright and colorful light show to match. JBL has always been a speaker brand that is a pretty solid bet when it comes to sound and portability at a reasonable price and the Pulse 5 toes that line as well.
Similar in size and sound quality to its Charge 5 sibling, the 4.2-inch by 8.5-inch by 5.2-inch Pulse 5 delivers clear and dynamic sound, especially in the mid-to-high frequency ranges. And although the low end is a bit lacking out of the box, with a bit of coaxing from the JBL Portable app, and even from in-app EQing from services like Spotify, the Pulse 5 can sound rich and booming, too — even more so when connecting several of them together with the PartyBoost feature. The Pulse 5 is driven by an upward-firing 0.6-inch tweeter and a bottom, down-firing 2.5-inch 30-watt woofer and gets surprisingly loud.
But let's be real, the Pulse 5 is a showstopper because of its lava-lamp LED lights that, with the help of the app, can chill things out with flowy, slow morphing visuals, or pulse along to the beat of your music with a tin of configurable presets, such as Party, Cocktail, Weather, Canvas, Spiritual, and Nature. It's honestly the best light-show Bluetooth speaker we've ever tested.
The Pulse 5's IP67 rating makes it great for pool or hot tub parties and didn't mind taking a dunk at all in our test.
 One drawback might be that the Pulse 5 is lacking in physical controls, so you have to use your phone to adjust volume, skip tracks, and other functions. The JBL Pulse 5 has a 7,500 mAh battery that JBL claims can last for up to 12 hours, which is pretty average, but the light show is well worth it.
More Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends Marshall Emberton II A small and super stylish Bluetooth speaker Excellent sound quality Rugged IP67 build Easy portability Great battery life Sync with similar speakers No AAC or aptX support No wired playback Pricey If it's good enough to top our list of the best Bluetooth speakers for so long, then why not add it here? Well, the previous version of the Emberton wasn't waterproof, but the Emberton II is, and it now more than earns its place here, too.
The 1.5-pound speaker may be diminutive with its handheld 2.7 by 6.3 by 3.0-inch frame, but don't be fooled. Like the Marshall Middleton on our list, the sound of this little thing is surprisingly bold and loud with well-balanced mids and highs that are beautifully clear. And also like the Midleton, stereo separation is excellent here, too, with the front-facing speakers handling the left channel and the back speakers firing the right for what Marshall calls “True Stereophonic” sound, a “unique form of multidirectional stereo sound from Marshall.” Blatantly put, it sounds great.
Although the Emberton doesn't support AAC or Bluetooth aptX codec for high-res sound (most Bluetooth speakers don't), you don't need it on a speaker this size. With the Marshall app, though, there are some EQ presets you can use to improve the sound to your liking. You can also use the app to utilize Stack mode here, too, meaning you can sync up additional Emberton II speakers to create as big a sound as you like, and not fear the beach with its IP67 rating.
I know I'm burying the lede here, but the Emberton II just looks cool, too, with its Marshall guitar-amp looks and gold accents. But let's talk battery life: the Emberton II gets a 10-hour improvement from its predecessor with what Marshall claims is 30 hours on one charge, if you don't push the volume past 50%. A quick 20-minute charge will net you four hours of playback, long enough for you to play several games of beach volleyball.
Image used with permission by copyright holder UE Wonderboom 2 The best floatable waterproof speaker Impressive 360-degree sound Easy-to-use controls Wireless stereo pairing 100-foot Bluetooth connectivity range Battery life varies by volume Looking for 360-degree sound with plenty of bass that can take a dunk with you? The totally-submersible UE Wonderboom 2 is the perfect pool-party Bluetooth speaker, and it's available in numerous color options.
With its 13-hour battery life (more on that below), simple controls, and wireless stereo pairing that allows you to link up multiple Wonderboom 2 speakers for even bigger sound, this is a loud and tough speaker that sends any bit of H20 packing. The 100-foot Bluetooth connectivity range is also beyond convenient, allowing you to use your phone to control the speaker at a safe distance from all water sources — and stays connected even when you head inside to use the bathroom.
While the UE Wonderboom 2 claims you'll get 13 hours of battery, that's at a fairly low volume. If you crank the speaker, you're only going to get about three or four hours of playback time, so just keep in mind that you may need to have a charger on hand if you're hosting an event that requires loud sound from the Wonderboom 2.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 The best for stereo pairing Loud, dynamic sound Easy to use Waterproof Great battery life Some functionality only supports Apple Music/Deezer It's not every day that your waterproof Bluetooth speaker will outshine even the most decorated of indoor setups, but such is the case with the top-notch Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3. True to the UE label, this speaker delivers big, booming sound, plentiful battery, and the handy ability to pair up with not just other Megaboom 3 units but older UE hardware as well.
You can expect up to 20 solid hours of battery life with the Megaboom 3, and the IP67 rating ensures you won't have to worry about this titan of sound getting doused.
Editors' Recommendations The best Bluetooth speaker Black Friday deals we’ve found Best headphones for running for 2023: JLab, JBL, Shokz, and more Marshall Acton II speaker is $100 off ahead of Black Friday Best bookshelf speakers 2023: from passive to powered and for every budget Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Best Products Audio / Video Wires are so old school, especially when it comes to headphones. Unless you're an audiophile who must have the peak possible hi-res sound quality that, with a few exceptions, can only be achieved with a set of wired headphones, then getting yourself a pair of the best wireless headphones is an absolute must. Don't misunderstand us: wireless headphones sound fantastic, and they're packed with features such as active noise cancellation (ANC), transparency modes for hearing the outside world the way you want to, excellent call quality, Bluetooth multipoint connectivity and more.
We're always looking for the best wireless headphones, and we also take comfort, audio quality, and battery life seriously. For this roundup, we're focusing on wireless headphones of the over-ear variety. For the best wireless earbuds, we've got a roundup of those, too.
Audio / Video There’s nothing better than the satisfying rumble and punchy performance of a well-chosen subwoofer that is set up properly. There’s also nothing worse than the muddy undertones and overdriven nature of a sub that doesn’t quite cut the mustard (but may have been easy on the wallet).
When it comes to home theater sound, a subwoofer is like the unifying force that bolsters the performance of your system’s main speakers by dealing with a majority of the low-end heft on its own. Plus, there’s no way you’re going to get the kind of guttural tones a sub is capable of from a traditional floor-standing or bookshelf speaker. But, like any other speaker purchase, facing down the hundreds of woofer options can be even more confusing than buying any other part of your new surround sound system, which is why we decided to put together this roundup in the first place.
Audio / Video Welcome to the latest generation of LED-backlit TVs. Some brands call it ULED, while others emphasize the “quantum dot” moniker, but there’s one umbrella acronym that effectively covers all these technologies and more: QLED. Quantum-dot LED TVs are some of the best LED sets ever produced, and they’re made by a number of different TV brands, including Samsung, Sony, Hisense, and TCL. Many models even use mini-LED lighting, which allows these TVs to achieve arresting peak brightness levels and amazing colors and contrast.
There are many different QLEDs on the market right now, so we thought we’d help you pick one out (and learn more about them) by creating this roundup of the best QLED TVs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
