Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides How we test speakers By Caleb Denison and Derek Malcolm Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Picking the right speaker can be tough. There are hundreds of speaker brands — many of which you’ve never heard of — and a vast array of sizes, styles, and finishes to consider. Then there’s the rather important concern about how they sound. Who has time to visit countless audio stores in search of the right speakers, anyway? Out of the box Build and finish The setup Manual calibration and EQ Methodology The audition Writing the review Additionally, what we have traditionally characterized as a “speaker” has changed significantly over the years, with the rise of Bluetooth speakers , wireless speakers , and all-in-one powered speakers that are redefining the hi-fi system from its component-based roots. We are in the privileged position of having companies send us review loaner units that we put through the wringer, and there are tons of them. So, how does one decide? Speaker reviews can help ease the process by separating the proverbial wheat from the chaff. They can also introduce us to those hidden gems that might have otherwise gone unnoticed and give us a clue as to whether we are barking up the right tree with a particular brand or model. It helps, however, if you know where the reviewer is coming from and can take that into consideration when reading their review.
How we test streaming video devices How we test soundbars How we test turntables and record players To that end, here’s an inside look at how we go about testing speakers.
Out of the box There’s just something special about the unboxing experience of a new speaker. This first impression can set the tone for years of ownership, so we take note of what the experience is like and do our best to convey that in our review. We look for adequate protective padding, consider ease of removal, and take note of any accessories (cables, floor spikes, footers, remotes, instruction manuals, etc.) that are included.
We check for quality parts, well-threaded inserts and screws, and expect the installation of any such accessories to go smoothly. If not, we’ll definitely mention it.
Build and finish A speaker’s build quality is a big indicator of its potential performance. We know that you sometimes may not actually get the chance to see the speakers yourself first if you order online, so we try to convey how they look and feel for you — we also try to take a ton of original photos of them, too, so you get a better look than the marketing images will provide.
We routinely perform the “knuckle test” where we rap our knuckles on the cabinet as we listen carefully. We want to hear a dead thunk and feel the cabinet bite back a bit. This indicates that quality wood was used and that the interior of the cabinet is free from unwanted resonance. This is critical even for smaller Bluetooth speakers, too, as a well-built cabinet or enclosure is always a good sign of quality and ruggedness as much as it is for sound.
McIntosh What we look for in a speaker’s finish will depend on what type of finish it is. With speakers that have a mock wood (vinyl) finish, we want the laminate to look convincing and for the seams to be well hidden. With real wood finishes, we check for uniformity of stain and color matching amongst other speakers in the system. For gloss finishes, we keep an eye out for brush marks in either the paint or lacquer.
The setup When setting up speakers, whether it’s a set of passive towers, powered bookshelves, desktop Bluetooth speakers, or a network streaming system like Sonos, we set them up as general users would — representative of real people in real rooms. We have multiple expert reviewers across the country, each with a variety of rooms and equipment types, which we feel is more realistic for the general product range we review. We always note the gear we use and the room situations we’re testing in for transparency and relatability. For testing ultra-high-end speakers and other audio gear, however, we also have an acoustically treated room at our offices for a more controlled environment.
During setup, we make note of how complex it is, how long it takes, and whether there are easy-to-follow setup instructions or resources available (like a product support number or online help agent), always with those less experienced than us in mind.
Manual calibration and EQ All speakers we test are manually set up and calibrated, if necessary — we do not use any auto EQ or room correction. For the purposes of our speaker evaluations, no equalization or tone control is used. This keeps the playing field level and allows us to evaluate the speaker based on the sound it was engineered to produce. We want to hear the speaker as it is. Once this is done, however, if the speaker or system has any correction software, such as Dirac or Sonos’ Truplay, we’ll check that out, too, and report our findings and comparisons.
Methodology Our sound quality evaluations are based entirely on listening tests. Therefore, our conclusions are the result of subjective analysis. Some speaker reviewers take a very different approach, placing considerable significance on measurements taken by electronic testing equipment that, among other metrics, measure the frequency response curve of a speaker. Of course, this sort of objective analysis is valuable and has its place in the world of speaker reviews, but it isn’t how we prefer to do it.
The audition Zeke Jones/Digital Trends This is the most straightforward (and fun) part of the speaker reviewing process. Essentially, we listen to music tracks that we know inside and out, backward and forward. We listen to all kinds of music because we know you do. Everything from jazz, classical, and movie scores to rock, pop, metal, hip-hop, podcasts, and everything in between. We use tried and tested tracks that are perfect for testing bass, mids, and high frequencies. We know how they should sound so we can hear how well a speaker produces it.
The first things we listen for are blatant diversions from what we know to be reality. If a speaker’s high-frequency response is thin, metallic, and artificial sounding, we’ll hear it right away. Likewise, if vocals sound as if they are being shouted through a thick sheet of velour, it will be pretty obvious. Bloated, tubby bass? We can’t stand it.
We listen for how wide and high the soundstage is, while also adjusting the speakers’ distance apart, angles, as well as their distance from walls and other obstructions, to see how that affects the sound as well. We always try to set up speakers we test, whether they’re portable Bluetooth speakers, subwoofers, or passive tower speakers, in accordance with the manufacturer’s suggestions, if there are any, to give them the best chance at sounding as they’re meant to.
Bluetooth speakers For Bluetooth speakers, we of course evaluate sound the same way as any speaker, but we also test other features that are indicative of the product range. Features such as connectivity options (i.e.: RCA, optical, HDMI, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi), battery life, ruggedness, dust and water resistance (if it can be dunked, we dunk it), whether it has an app (is it well designed and easy to use?), portability, and more.
Powered speakers Powered speakers have become a big part of the speaker market for their size (big and small), power, and versatility for being able to replace a boatload of more traditional audio equipment. You can connect them to everything from turntables to phones to TVs, and they can be a cost-effective solution. We review powered speakers much the same way as Bluetooth speakers. We look at connectivity, compatibility, and how they sound and function in all of their various configurations. If they’re desktop speakers, we check out their nearfield capabilities (how they sound at close distances), if they’re big, powered tower speakers, we push them to their limits and compare them to other speakers of their ilk, because we know you’ll want to know what the difference is and if it’s worth your money.
Dolby Atmos Reviewing Dolby Atmos or other spatial audio speakers is a different beast altogether. Whether it’s a traditional AV receiver -based setup, a soundbar , or other Atmos system with up-firing speakers that help produce that incredible 360-degree sound, we always do this in a room with a flat ceiling (not angled or vaulted) that’s at a normal height (between 7.5 and 14 feet). We also use a spatial audio calibration disc to optimize the system before our tests. We then test the speakers with appropriate Dolby Atmos Music tracks from sources such as Amazon Music and Apple Music , as well as movies or TV shows with Atmos surround sound.
After scrutinizing gads of minute details, we take a step back and consider whether the speakers will appeal to a broad enough spectrum of listeners. A speaker may not suit our personal taste, but if its signature sound is going to meet the favor of a certain audience, then we must submit that it has its place in the market and we’ll note that accordingly. Conversely, if a speaker does really well in our auditions, but is outrageously priced or requires far more power than most have to feed it, we’ll certainly be mentioning that too.
Writing the review For us, simply organizing our evaluation notes into something that resembles a narrative is not good enough. We aim to give a little back-story on the manufacturer, describe our experience with the speakers, and put their sound signature into a context that is understandable, especially for those not familiar with the audiophile lexicon. We hope that by reading our speaker reviews, you will walk away with a feel for whether that particular model is something you should bother to audition yourself or remove from your shortlist because, ultimately, a personal audition is absolutely essential.
Editors' Recommendations Guess how much this tiny Porsche Design speaker costs How we test TVs How we test headphones and earbuds How we test AV receivers Definitive Technology’s new speakers bring the boom from another Dymension Audio / Video British audio gear maker KEF today announced the next generation of its midrange R Series loudspeakers, dubbed R Series Meta. Upgraded with the same sound-absorbing metamaterial tech found in several of its high-end speakers, the R Series Meta aims to bring this premium sound to a broader audience with its more affordable price point.
If you've ever perused the KEF website and drooled over the company's unique-looking $35,000 Blade One Meta speakers, its $22,000 Reference 5 Meta towers, or even its $7,000 LS60 Wireless powered speakers, KEF's R Series Meta could be a much more affordable way to get in on the same Metamaterial Absorption Technology (MAT) found in those speakers.
Audio / Video The massive convention halls of CES 2023 in Las Vegas are filled with blinding eye candy as far as you can see -- everything from the latest TVs and computer monitors to smart projectors and more. But the Swedish digital audio processing masters at Dirac want you to know that the annual tech show is also loaded with things that sound amazing. To that end, Dirac today announced its Dirac Live Active Room Treatment, which it says works like active noise cancellation technology by using your home theater system's own speakers to help clean up the sound in any room.
Anyone who's ever set up speakers or a subwoofer in a home entertainment space will tell you that everything from the size of the room to its walls, floor, ceiling, and the objects in it can affect the sound -- bass frequencies can cross and create an annoying boom, and sound can bounce all over the place, creating unwanted noise.
Audio / Video Denon has released the Denon Home Subwoofer, a wireless subwoofer that can connect to any speaker in the Denon Home family of wireless products, including the Denon Home Sound Bar 550. It goes on sale for $599 on March 9, online and in select retail stores.
The subwoofer has an 8-inch driver enclosed within a cabinet that matches the rest of the Denon Home range, with an understated black color and a wrap-around acoustic fabric. As with the other components in the Home collection, the Home Subwoofer supports Denon's HEOS multiroom audio system, which is also built-in on several of the company's A/V receivers.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
