Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video News KEF’s LS50 Wireless II speakers are a gorgeous Sonos alternative for audiophiles By Nick Woodard and Jaron Schneider Close KEF has debuted two new pairs of high-end bookshelf speakers, including a powered, wireless set with high-resolution streaming capabilities. Both the LS50 Meta and LS50 Wireless II have us rather intrigued here at Digital Trends, especially considering our reverence for past KEF speakers like the KEF Q150 and the original LS50 Wireless.
LS50 Meta LS50 Wireless II The audio company has launched the LS50 Meta and the LS50 Wireless II with retail prices of $1,500 and $2,500, respectively. According to KEF, the pairs of speakers will be the world’s first loudspeakers to use Metamaterial Absorption Technology (MAT), the company’s own tech, which it says reduces the vibration sound causes to the actual casing of the speaker and prevents any of that vibration from interfering with the audio quality coming out of it.
Think of it this way: A speaker cabinet is a lot like a single room home with no furniture in it. If you were to stomp around or clap your hands, you would hear a ton of reverberation. But add in a few couches, tables, and carpets, and that suddenly disappears, right? The same can be said of the inside of a speaker casing, and companies use different techniques to add dampening material in the casing to prevent that reverberation.
Sonos’ new Era 100 and Era 300 wireless speakers go all-in on spatial audio and Bluetooth KEF’s second-generation LSX II connects to all your audio KEF’s Reference, Blade speakers updated with metamaterials In that same vein, KEF says the MAT implementation in both the LS50 Meta and the LS50 Wireless II can absorb a very impressive 99 percent of that aforementioned unwanted sound.
In short, these speakers are supposed to sound really, really good.
LS50 Meta KEF KEF says the LS50 Meta have a new cone neck decoupler and motor system that reduces high-frequency distortion. The company also boasts about its new patented offset flexible port. What does that mean to you? Well, when a speaker produces a lot of bass, a lot of air moves around. The port lets the air out of the speaker and reinforces the bass response. If you don’t get that port located in just the right place, at the right size, you can actually get a lot of what is called “shuffing” noise, which is the sound you hear when air comes flying out of that port. That noise can be annoying to hear. KEF says its new cone is better than what is out there, and improves the overall sound of the speaker.
The goal here seems to be unrivaled balance, with KEF incorporating several new technologies focused on doing just that.
The LS50 Meta (and the LS50 Wireless II) come with KEF’s S2 Floor Stand, and the corners of each speaker have a threaded insert to lock them into place on the stands. The S2 themselves have integrated cable management, as well as a mass-loadable column. The columns for speaker stands have taditionally been loaded with sand or lead shot — something heavy. The idea of a mass-loaded column is that it increases the mass and density of the speaker stand to prevent sound from traveling down the column and transferring vibrations from the speaker stand and into the floor.
The LS50 Meta will be available in four colors — carbon black, titanium gray, mineral white, and a royal blue special edition — and will come with a recommended power rating of between 40 watts and 100 watts.
LS50 Wireless II Image used with permission by copyright holder The LS50 Wireless II takes the design details and technologies that KEF built into its LS50 Meta counterpart and adds a powered, wireless setup into the mix.
That wireless configuration brings several different streaming opportunities to the LS50 Wireless II, with music services like Spotify, Tidal, Amazon Music, and Deezer all supported. The KEF Connect app allows you to tune into internet radio stations as well, and the speakers have both AirPlay 2 and Chromecast built in to help you connect from either your Apple or Android device. If that wasn’t enough, the LS50 Wireless II also support Bluetooth, plus wired connections that include HDMI, analog, optical, and coaxial inputs to connect to TVs, turntables, CD players, or game consoles.
KEF The LS50 Wireless II can be tethered with a supplied cable (24bit/192kHz resolution), or wirelessly (24bit/96kHz), and are set up by using the KEF Connect app. Hardware-wise, the LS50 Wireless II has a 100-watt class A/B amplifier driving each tweeter, and dedicated 280-watt class D amplifiers to push the mid/bass drivers. If you’re looking for even more room-filling sound, the Wireless II has two subwoofer outputs for adding extra low end with a woofer like KEF’s KUBE range or KF92 subs.
Imagine a Sonos , but with more connections and the promise of hi-fi sound.
The LS50 Wireless II come in the same carbon black, titanium gray, and mineral white trims as the LS50 Meta, but also have the option for a crimson red special-edition option.
Editors' Recommendations JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans New Sonos speakers apparently confirmed by accessory company KEF LS60 bring wireless hi-res audio to floor-standing speakers Sonos is raising the prices of most of its speakers Sony’s first wireless speakers to support 360 Reality Audio start at $300 Tech News Audio / Video Sonos has just taken the wraps off its second portable speaker, the $169 Sonos Roam, which will be available in black or white when it hits retailers starting April 20, 2021. We had been expecting Sonos to deliver a mini version of its $399 Sonos Move, but thanks to better protection from the elements and wireless charging, the Roam is much more than a scaled-down Move. Here are all of the details.
Super small We were impressed by the power and sound quality that Sonos had managed to pack into a rugged speaker like the Sonos Move, but our chief criticism was that despite being billed as portable, it was simply too big and heavy to be a true alternative to popular portable models like the UE Megaboom. The Sonos Roam, on the other hand, is ultraportable. At just under one pound and standing only 6.6 inches tall, the Roam is smaller and lighter than the $150 UE Boom 3.
Audio / Video The Sonos Move is an excellent portable speaker, and so far, it's the only Sonos model that sports the versatility of a Bluetooth connection. But if a recently spotted FCC filing is any indication, we could soon see a much smaller, and possibly less expensive edition of the Sonos Move -- a Move Mini, perhaps.
As The Verge points out, the drawing contained in the FCC documents clearly illustrate a device with its own wireless charging cradle (a design that is similar to the existing Move) but that also has a round, cylindrical shape.
Audio / Video Wireless speakers that offer an extra-wide soundstage, like Apple's $299 HomePod and Amazon's $200 Echo Studio, are becoming increasingly popular as people look to get the most audio bang for their buck from a single speaker. Now buyers have another choice when it comes to expansive sound: Harmon Kardon's $300 Aura Studio 3 Bluetooth speaker is now available for pre-order and is expected to start shipping July 1.
The Aura Studio 3 is the third generation of Harmon Kardon's transparent-domed wireless speaker, which uses a design the company has been refining ever since it debuted as the bass module enclosure for its Apple iMac companion Soundsticks speakers in 2000.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
