Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Klipsch The Nines review: way too much fun for just one box By Caleb Denison Close $1,500.00 Exhilarating sound Powerful, moving bass Comprehensive inputs Wide and deep soundstage Gorgeous finish Large footprint No built-in Wi-Fi What happens when Klipsch dresses powered speakers to The Nines? When you get over that terrible pun, please read on to find out.
Size Powered, not smart Connections and controls Build quality Setup How I tested Sound quality Final thoughts Jokes aside, The Nines are Klipsch’s most ambitious powered speakers yet — and they really are remarkable. Technically speaking, they are the biggest sibling in a growing family of powered speakers that includes The Fives, The Sixes, and The Sevens (which we also reviewed ). But don’t dismiss The Nines as simply falling into line with the all-too-common “bigger is better” axiom that too often plagues the world of audio/video. The Nines are special in their own right.
Tivoli Model One Digital radio hands-on review: Small changes, big difference But, yeah. They’re also big.
Size Two things I must address right off the bat. First, the Nines are large and, as it turns out, very much in charge. But we’ll get to that. Back to the size. Despite the efforts to give you some sense of scale on its website, Klipsch’s photos of The Nines — and their slightly smaller siblings, The Sevens — don’t really capture their … bigness. At least not relative to most powered speakers. These are nowhere close to the size of a standard bookshelf speaker, not that Klipsch is trying to pass them off as such.
To help put The Nines’ size in context, see one of them pictured below, to the right of an SVS Prime Wireless Pro speaker, and an Elac UB5. The two on the left are bookshelf speakers. The one on the right might best be called a “monitor.” If you prefer numbers, we’re talking 19.13 x 9.5 x 13.38 inches, and the speakers weigh 28.4 and 27 pounds each.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends I personally have zero problems with the size, but you should know what you are getting into if you’re looking to purchase The Nines. And if you do pick up The Nines, I highly recommend getting the speaker stands that Klipsch offers to go with them, or a suitable set of stands elsewhere, because while The Nines aren’t super picky about placement, there definitely is a right way to set them up, which I’ll get to in a moment.
Powered, not smart The second thing I want to get into is that The Nines are not a “smart speaker.” There’s no built-in Wi-Fi, no built-in Alexa, Siri, or Google Assistant. I’ll stop short of calling them “dumb” speakers because there is a handy companion app, but The Nines — just like The Fives that came out in 2020 — aren’t trying to be anything remotely like a HomePod, Echo, or Nest speaker. So … what are they? The Nines aren’t really replacing a modern receiver and speakers.
Well, they are a bigger, badder version of Klipsch’s The Fives, which I’ll remind you were the first powered speakers to include an HDMI ARC connection. Lots of others have now jumped on that bandwagon, but The Fives did it first and we thank them for creating the category.
In fact, we called The Fives the best soundbar alternative for music lovers. Klipsch calls them the best alternative to a receiver and stereo speakers. And I’ll concede that to a point, but these days, most people expect their receiver to have built-in Wi-Fi, Spotify Connect, AirPlay, etc. The Fives, Sevens, and Nines don’t have that, so they aren’t really replacing a modern receiver and speakers. Rather, they function more like a replacement for the classic, midcentury awesomeness of a vintage receiver and speakers.
Connections and controls This leads us nicely into how you connect and interact with The Nines. They have every input you need and want. There’s an HDMI ARC connection so you can get all your TV audio out through the speakers, there’s a USB input (which even the KEF LS Wireless line doesn’t support anymore), optical digital if your TV doesn’t have HDMI ARC, and then my personal favorite, a phono input (switchable to use a built-in phono preamp or line-in) with a ground plug to connect your favorite turntable.
Moving magnet cartridges only need apply — if you have a fancier moving coil cartridge, you’ll need to supply your own phono preamp.
There’s also a subwoofer output, although as I’ll discuss soon, The Nines take care of bass business just fine on their own.
As for control, Klipsch offers an input selector dial and a volume dial on the top of the speaker, and they are a treat to use. The response of the knurled metal dials feels awesome and pairs nicely with the tactile experience of handling and playing back vinyl on a turntable, which I did a lot during my testing.
You also get a remote with input selectors, volume control, sub control, and a play/pause button. And then there’s the Klipsch app, which is a little rudimentary, but gets the job done. The app is where you can pick some sound profiles or create and save your own. I should also point out that the app communicates with the speakers via Bluetooth, so you’ll want to be within range to use it. I also wish the app connected more quickly, but it is what it is.
Build quality As for build quality and internal components, The Nines are exactly as you’d expect if you’re familiar with the Kllipsch Brand. The cabinets are well-built — they pass the knuckle test — and covered with a gorgeous real wood veneer. I like the magnetic grills that came with this pair — just one of several elements that give me strong Forte Four vibes — though to be honest, I leave them off. The only aesthetic annoyance is a little brag line on the speaker. I wish it wasn’t there, but I’ll live with it.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends On the bottom, there’s a super-robust 8-inch midwoofer mated to a 1-inch Titanium dome tweeter set in Klipsch’s proprietary Tractrix horn enclosure. As for amplification, The Nines offer 240 watts total power and can peak at up to 480 watts. Klipsch tells me the internal amplifiers deliver 100 watts each to the midwoofers and 30 watts each to the tweeters — double those figures for peak power output — which is more than enough to drive such an efficient speaker design.
Setup Setting up The Nines is a piece of cake. Everything you need to connect them is in the box, and that includes an HDMI cable , as well as an already lengthy speaker cable, along with an extension for that speaker cable. Klipsch even provides a USB cable. If you’re going to use optical digital, you’ll need to provide that yourself, and if you connect a subwoofer, that cable is also on you.
Having stands for them is going to be the best choice for a lot of folks.
Speaking of the sub out, Klipsch tells me the crossover for the sub and speakers is set at 60Hz when a subwoofer cable is plugged in, so you don’t get to run The Nines at their full range and then dial in the sub just to handle the lowest octave. But Klipsch takes the reins for a reason, handling the blend between speakers and sub on its own, which it had to do since Klipsch also folds in a dynamic bass feature that I’ll dig into in a moment.
As for placement, the speakers are pretty versatile in terms of how far apart from each other they can be placed, and you even have some wiggle room for their height. My BDI cabinet places the bottom of the speakers 28 inches off the floor, but a speaker stand between 24 and 30 inches is probably fine. But you really, really need to pull these speakers about 18 inches from the wall — a foot at the very least — to get the best bass response, soundstage, and imaging in most rooms. That’s why I think having stands for them is going to be the best choice for a lot of folks.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends One last setup touch that I love is that the main speaker with all the connections and controls can be placed as the left speaker or the right, thanks to a switch on the back. This versatility was essential for me since the HDMI ports on the Sony A95K OLED I tested the speakers with are on the left, as was my turntable.
How I tested We’re about to get into sound quality, but first a quick word on how I tested The Nines. I played vinyl using an EAT B-Sharp turntable connected both to The Nines’ own phono-preamp input and to an outboard phono preamp from Cambridge Audio. I also connected a laptop via USB, and I used the Sony A95K as a source for both movies and music streaming as well. I tested the Bluetooth audio connection for posterity but rarely used it. Instead, or when streaming music, I used a Wiim Pro streamer, though the Wiim Mini would have done the job just as well.
One last note: The Nines only accept PCM digital audio, so be sure to set your TV to output PCM, and if you want to listen to high-res music, you’ll need to convert it to PCM before you output to the speakers. They don’t decode FLAC, MQA, etc.
I think all that stuff was important to talk about, but let’s get to the goods, shall we? How do they sound? Sound quality It’s simple. They sound awesome. I’ve enjoyed these speakers so, so much. I haven’t had this much fun since we had the Forte IV in here. They have that Klipsch Heritage speaker vibe nailed. Now, mine definitely benefited from a little break-in (I know there are speaker break-in deniers out there, and that’s fine. All I’m saying is that the treble had just a touch more bite than I wanted with the speakers straight out of the box). I ran some burn-in noise on them for about 15 hours, and that’s all it took. I came back to them and listened to the same tracks, and the treble was noticeably smoother. My ears didn’t relax into them — the sound profile changed. Do I have measurements to back that up? Nope, I’m sorry, I don’t, but I would urge you to see for yourself.
There’s not much I don’t love about listening to these speakers. They are a riot of fun. Can they get loud? They’re Klipsch — yes, they get loud. And they do it without distortion. Can they get loud without being fatiguing? For me, yes. More sensitive listeners might find the highs have a bit more sparkle than is to their taste. These speakers don’t have silk dome tweeter characteristics, but that doesn’t mean the treble isn’t sweet. It is … a little. But even more, they are incredibly articulate. The transients just leap out from the speakers. Every drummer’s brush stroke, every click of a drumstick on a cymbal, every brass overtone, every guitar pick — it’s all resolved with a remarkably precise attack, and the decay is quite natural as well. The resolution of detail is just such a treat.
But as delicate as they can be in the treble and midrange, they also grind hard. I used Dire Straits’ Love Over Gold on vinyl, which is rich with dynamics and rife with guitar distortion, punchy bass guitar, and thumping kick drum. The Nines brought Telegraph Road to life in a way I’ve not heard in some time.
There’s not much I don’t love about listening to these speakers.
I felt the same way listening to Fleetwood Mac’s Rumors record, particularly the song The Chain , which has steely guitar and thumping kick drum at the intro, followed by transcendent, borderline angelic vocals that were mic’d and mixed so they can leap out of the speakers and into the room when played through the right speakers. It’s definitely one of my go-to tracks, and definitely a track that has historically sounded great through Klipsch speakers, and The Nines, once again, delivered that Heritage Series sound I was looking for.
I do have to mention, though, that The Nines phono preamp is … fine. It’s decent. But if vinyl listening is going to be a big part of how you use The Nines, an outboard phono preamp will be a nice upgrade. Even something inexpensive like the Schiit Mani or Mani 2 would be a step up. Or a $350 Cambridge Duo sounds fantastic as well — plus it’s got a great headphone amp in it.
For hip-hop and R&B, The Nines brought deep, resonant, tuneful bass with plenty of punch. I never wanted a subwoofer for music listening. It just wasn’t necessary. I didn’t really need Klipsch’s Dynamic Bass feature either, which is meant to keep the bass at a satisfying level, even at lower volumes. For me, it just wasn’t necessary, but if you want to feel that lower octave at all volume levels, the dynamic bass feature will do that.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends The only time a subwoofer was ever really a bonus was when watching movies. If you really want to feel your seat shake, then a sub can help deliver a bit more of that ultra-low, visceral, butt-shaking bass. And I’m sure Klipsch will be happy to sell you a sub — maybe one from its brand-new Reference line.
 But, honestly, I’d try The Nines without a sub first. You may well find you don’t want a sub. They just sound so powerful and rich on their own.
Final thoughts The Nines simply are one of the best one-box audio solutions on the market, period.
Perhaps the greatest endorsement I can give The Nines is that I’m actually enjoying them just a bit more than a full-size set of Reference Premiere tower speakers mated to a massive Marantz SR8015 A/V receiver. The Nines are easier to set up, easier to place, and easier to enjoy. And they sound excellent. They are just a ton of fun, but they also retain an air of refinement that I don’t think a lot of people are going to expect.
So, at roughly $1,500, are The Nines worth it? I’d say yes, absolutely. Getting this kind of sound from a separate pair of speakers and an AVR is not only going to require more hassle and setup effort, but just as much, if not more, money. And honestly, the resulting sound of separates isn’t likely to exceed, or even match, what The Nines can do on their own.
The Nines are simply one of the best one-box audio solutions on the market, period. I’m going to enjoy listening to these for years.
Editors' Recommendations Klipsch follows the success of The Fives with The Sevens and Nines powered speakers Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
