Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Klipsch The Sevens review: skip the AVR and subwoofer; this is all you need By Simon Cohen Close $1,299.00 Incredible sound Top-quality design/materials Generous inputs Adjustable EQ No Wi-Fi connection Can't see indicators when seated Home audio, like life itself, is full of trade-offs. Convenience and simplicity typically come at the expense of control, affordability comes at the expense of quality, and products that do many things often fail to excel at any one task. There’s no getting around all of these compromises, but when it comes to creating a simple, powerful hi-fi sound system for both TV and music, Klipsch’s The Sevens ($1,299) are just about perfect.
Welcome to the family Don’t call them bookshelf speakers Looking good Connections galore Basic app Wimpy wireless Outrageously good sound The Sevens or a soundbar? Welcome to the family Simon Cohen / Digital Trends First things first: The Sevens belong to a family of audio products from Klipsch collectively known as Heritage Wireless Room Speakers. They all have two things in common: they can stream music wirelessly via Bluetooth and they’ve got a midcentury modern vibe that immediately brings forth images of the Mad Men era and the Rat Pack vocal stylings of Frank Sinatra, Sammy Davis Jr., and Dean Martin.
Klipsch cranks up the karaoke with its first wireless party speakers Klipsch brings retro hi-fi vibes to its new desktop speakers Klipsch’s new speakers are the no-soundbar soundbar we need As a set of powered stereo speakers, The Sevens are the middle child of a trio of nearly identical models , with The Fives ($969) occupying the entry-level and The Nines ($1,499) sitting at the top. Unlike the rest of the Heritage Wireless family, these three models are intended as full soundbar alternatives.
While reading this review, keep these other models in mind — depending on your space and your budget, they might be a better choice than The Sevens because of their differing power levels, yet feature for feature, they’re almost identical.
Don’t call them bookshelf speakers Just a little bigger than a bookshelf speaker. Energy CB-5 (left) and Klipsch The Sevens.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I don’t know about your home, but in my house, there isn’t a single bookshelf that’s deeper than 10.5 inches. That pretty much disqualifies The Sevens from the “bookshelf” speaker category as far as I’m concerned. Technically, these beasts are just 10.8 inches deep, which sounds like I’m splitting hairs — 0.3 inches doesn’t sound like much really But that’s not the whole story.
The Sevens use a delightfully overengineered, braided, nylon-wrapped four-conductor audio cable to attach the powered primary speaker with the passive secondary unit. When you take into account the industrial-strength, threaded-collar connectors at each end, you’re going to need a minimum of 13 inches of space. Given that the cabinets feature rear-facing bass ports, you might want to give them even more breathing room. Wondering why the cable is so beefy? The speakers are bi-amped, which means each driver has its own discrete power feed, for more precise tuning.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Sevens are also surprisingly tall at 16.3 inches and wide at 8.1 inches. Stand them next to an average 65-inch TV and they’ll reach the screen’s halfway point. Unless you have a robust media center with lots of extra space, you might want to look into buying Klipsch’s optional speaker stands (there are four threaded mounting holes on the bottom of the speakers to mount them).
The Sevens come with a power cord, a remote, an HDMI cable , a USB cable, a 13-foot speaker cable, and a 6.5-foot speaker extension cable — giving you a maximum distance of 19.5 feet between the speakers.
Looking good Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I’m on record as saying that speakers — especially soundbars — should be heard, not seen. However, if you’re going to get a set of speakers that are this big, they had better look fantastic — and The Sevens do. Our review model came in black. It’s a real wood veneer on top of medium-density fibreboard, which gives them a true furniture-grade appearance. They’re also available in a walnut finish.
With the included magnetically latched fabric grilles installed, they become part of the decor. Or you can go naked and let the two massive drive enclosures speak for themselves.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Klipsch has also somehow managed to make The Sevens’ top-mounted controls look like they belong. Instead of trying to hide them, perhaps as a series of small plastic buttons, Klipsch’s designers decided to celebrate them by using oversized, diagonally knurled metal thumbwheels — one for volume and the other for source selection. The remaining controls, which you’ll use far less often, are hidden on the back panel of the primary speaker.
Speaking of the primary speaker, I have to give props to Klipsch for including a selector switch that lets you decide if the primary will be your left or right channel.
Connections galore Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Klipsch says that with The Sevens, you can ditch your AV receiver (AVR) — and that’s not far from the truth. The back panel has three digital inputs (HDMI ARC, optical, and USB) a 3.5mm analog input, and a set of RCA analog inputs that can be toggled for phono use — no need for a separate preamp if you want to hook up a turntable. Keep in mind that because The Sevens don’t support advanced surround formats like Dolby Atmos, there’s no difference in terms of sound quality if you want to connect your TV via optical instead of HDMI ARC.
Unlike so many soundbars I’ve tested with multiple inputs, each input is discrete and selectable with The Sevens. You can theoretically have five audio sources connected simultaneously — six if you include the speakers’ Bluetooth connection. There’s also a subwoofer output, which I’ll discuss later.
Switching sources and adjusting the volume is a breeze with those big thumbwheels, and Klipsch includes an infrared remote so you can manage The Sevens from your couch, but this is one area where the speakers don’t quite cut it as an AVR replacement.
Because all of the indicators for source and volume are on the top of the primary speaker’s cabinet, there’s zero chance you’ll be able to see them from a seated position unless you put them on the floor. Even then, good luck reading them from a distance of more than four feet.
For some, the lack of visual feedback may not be a problem, but I prefer it when gadgets can tell you what’s going on.
The remote itself is well laid out, but it seems to have a very narrow effective angle. If you’re sitting directly in front of the primary speaker — which has the IR receiver on the front — it’s fine. Sit off to the side (which one tends to do with a stereo pair) and it can be hit-or-miss. If you’re using the HDMI ARC connection, your TV’s remote should have no problem sending basic commands.
Basic app One way around the invisible indicators and the quirky remote is to use the Klipsch Connect app for iOS or Android. It does all of the same things as the remote — plus firmware updates — but it lets you see the result of those changes. It’s not bad as apps go. There aren’t many screens and menus, so it’s easy to navigate.
Unfortunately, it connects via Bluetooth and has a habit of going into a refresh cycle on a regular basis (presumably to make sure it’s still synced with the speakers), which is a bit frustrating at times.
Wimpy wireless If you want Wi-Fi streaming, you’ll need a device like the Wiim Pro.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I love that Klipsch has integrated a digital-to-analog converter (DAC) that’s compatible with lossless hi-res audio sources, all the way up to 24-bit/192kHz. But I’m highly perplexed by the decision to limit The Sevens to just Bluetooth for their wireless connectivity.
Bluetooth on these speakers, even with the supported aptX HD codec , isn’t lossless and it tops out at 24-bit/48kHz. That’s assuming you have an Android phone. If you’re on an Apple device, you’ll be getting lossy 16-bit/44.1kHz at best.
The way most wireless speakers deal with this limitation is by offering Wi-Fi connectivity.
Sonos , Denon HEOS, Bluesound , Bose, Sony, Yamaha … all of these brands have integrated Wi-Fi into their flagship products because it has (essentially) no limits on bandwidth, and lets you stream at the highest possible lossless quality from both your own collection and from streaming services.
When Digital Trends asked Klipsch why it had omitted Wi-Fi, we were told that the company believes that the vast majority of the source devices connected to the Fives, Sevens, and Nines already support your streaming flavor of choice. I suppose if you include smart TV s with built-in streaming music apps, then maybe that’s true, but you shouldn’t have to turn on your TV to listen to music.
Even if Klipsch didn’t want to go to the trouble of creating an app with streaming services built-in, it could have enabled Wi-Fi for the purpose of supporting Apple’s AirPlay 2 and Google’s Chromecast for audio , both of which would offer better quality (and greater flexibility) than Bluetooth.
Outrageously good sound Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I’m not going to mince words. I love the way these speakers sound. I’ve never auditioned powered monitors that come anywhere close to The Sevens in terms of clarity, precision, soundstage, and bass response. Those 1-inch titanium tweeters, recessed in their Tractrix horn cavities, do such an impressive job at directing sound around the room that there were moments while watching movies when I was convinced I was hearing surround sound — not just two-channel stereo.
I cannot speak highly enough about the 6.5-inch woofers. I’m so used to needing a subwoofer when listening to soundbars, I had already busted out my subwoofer’s cable in preparation for using it with The Sevens. And yet the combination of those woofers along with Klipsch’s Dynamic Bass EQ (which adapts low frequencies as you increase/decrease the volume) proved more than powerful enough to deliver cinematic jolts — I highly recommend HBO’s The Last of Us as a test.
Yes, I did connect my sub to hear the difference, and yes, it improved that delicious low-end even further. Then I disconnected my sub and discovered I didn’t miss it. That says it all.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As we noted in our review of The Fives , when it comes to TV sound, The Sevens are very adept at delivering a phantom center channel from just two speakers. Once again, I think those tweeters get the credit. However, they don’t quite live up to the dialogue clarity of the best soundbars like the Bose Smart Soundbar 900 or the Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Plus.
 That’s not really a surprise — it’s pretty hard to beat a central, dialogue-tuned tweeter that’s aimed directly at you. Should you be concerned about it? No. Unless you are very picky about dialogue clarity, The Sevens won’t disappoint.
I will quickly point out that, as a set of stereo speakers, The Sevens don’t do Dolby Atmos.
 That’s not a criticism as much as it’s a fact; if you want the full 3D immersion of Dolby Atmos, don’t buy these monitors.
However, I will also point out that Dolby Atmos doesn’t have a monopoly on great sound. A well-executed stereo pair like The Sevens, with their superb dynamic range and bass response, will deliver a much bigger emotional punch for your movies and shows than a poorly executed Dolby Atmos sound system.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As for music? That’s the real sweet spot for The Sevens. It’s hard to imagine a speaker/amp combo that can deliver this much power and precision for the same level of investment. For medium-to-large rooms, the speakers’ 200 total watts of power (400 peak) will have no problem generating as much loudness as you could want, and without a hint of distortion.
When listening to music, I tend to favor lower volume levels because I find that most systems start to sound harsh once you push them beyond 60% of their volume scale. And yet, I kept turning The Sevens up higher and higher — and they just sounded better and better. I’m not sure my neighbors felt the same way.
I put them through their paces using a Wiim Pro wireless adapter and a wide collection of hi-res and CD-quality lossless tracks from Amazon Music , and I was treated to hours of truly enjoyable listening. From the droning thump of Billie Eilish’s Bad Guy to the soaring orchestration of John Williams’ most famous movie themes, The Sevens reminded me at every turn that all you really need is a great set of stereo speakers.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Out of the box, the tuning delivers an admirably flat frequency response, but if it’s not exactly to your liking, the Klipsch Connect app gives you a three-band equalizer for custom settings, along with four presets: flat, voice, bass, and rock. After some playing around, I found that my favorite is the rock preset, which sounds like it gives a slight boost to lows.
Digital Trends Editor-at-large, Caleb Denison — who has been auditioning The Nines — prefers to run those speakers without the Dynamic Bass feature enabled, but I found it helped The Sevens to keep their balance at lower volumes.
The Sevens or a soundbar? There’s no question that Klipsch is asking a premium price for The Sevens, as $1,299 can buy you a very good Dolby Atmos-capable soundbar -based home theater system, many of which come with their own wireless subwoofers. Beyond their spatial audio compatibility, they also tend to offer full Wi-Fi connectivity and an HDMI input, so you don’t need to sacrifice your TV’s HDMI ARC port just for sound.
And yet, there’s also no question that these products are designed as TV-first systems. If what you want is a true music-first all-in-one setup that can also do double duty as a powerful TV enhancer, The Sevens tick (almost) all of the boxes.
Editors' Recommendations Klipsch takes on Marshall with three new portable and rugged Bluetooth speakers Klipsch follows the success of The Fives with The Sevens and Nines powered speakers Everything you need for a backyard movie night You can now buy Klipsch’s new WiSA-certified wireless home theater speakers Klipsch Bar 40 and Bar 48 home theater soundbars bring the boom to any TV Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
