Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sonos Move 2 review: same body, better soul By Simon Cohen Close $449.00 Balanced and immersive sound 24-hour battery Analog line-in (with optional adapter) Charges your devices Awkward to carry No Google Assistant option Despite being the company that almost single-handedly revolutionized how we listen to music in our homes, Sonos takes a very conservative, if-it-ain’t-broke-don’t-fix-it approach when evolving its wireless speakers.
 The new Sonos Move 2 is a perfect example. You’d be hard-pressed to tell the difference between it and its predecessor, the original Sonos Move , just by looking at them side by side (as you can see in some of the accompanying photos).
Sonos Move 2: design Sonos Move 2: setup, streaming, and software Sonos Move 2: battery life and connections Sonos Move 2: sound quality Sonos Move 2: voice assistants Sonos Move 2: should you buy it? Sonos has preserved almost every curve, including the Move’s integrated carry handle. You can even swap the new and the old model from one speaker’s charging cradle to another. But under that nearly identical shell lies a surprising number of improvements, including stereo sound. The Move 2 may cost $50 more than the first-gen speaker, but these enhancements make that small extra investment seem like a no-brainer if you’re a Sonos fan looking to bring a powerful, yet portable smart speaker into your life.
Unless you’re also a Google fan. Yep, Sonos and Google remain at odds with each other , and the Move 2 pays the price.
Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update Best wireless speakers for 2023: Sonos, Apple, KEF, and more Android users are about to lose a handy Sonos feature I’ve been testing the Move 2 for about a week and here’s everything you need to know.
Sonos Move 2: design Sonos Move (Gen 1) in black, and the new Sonos Move 2 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I just called the Move 2 portable, but the truth is that this speaker, like its predecessor, is more accurately described as luggable. It’s big. It weighs 6.6 pounds. And while its carry handle is convenient for moving the speaker from location to location, you won’t want to carry it very far. From your house to your car? No problem. A 15-minute walk to the beach? That’s going to be tiring. Good thing Sonos also makes the Roam , a truly portable speaker you can toss in a backpack.
Most folks I know who own the first-gen Move use it as their kitchen/patio speaker. They keep it on its charging cradle when in the kitchen, and then carry it outside to run on battery power when weather permits. Or they pack it in the car for road trips. It’s perfect for all of these scenarios, especially when you consider its IP56 protection , which will keep it from most types of water- and dust-related harm as long as you don’t let it go for a dunk in a pool. The rubberized base gives it a surprising amount of grip on most surfaces. And since most of the speaker’s mass is located near the base, it’s relatively tip-proof despite its height.
The Sonos Move 2 (white) has a dedicated touch control for volume level. Also pictured is the Sonos Move (Gen 1).
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Move 2 doesn’t change these fundamentals, but it does make them a bit better. The charging cradle is no longer permanently wired to its wall adapter, and the adapter itself is a lot smaller. With USB-C connections at both ends, you get more flexibility in how you use these two parts (you could choose to use the adapter to charge other devices), plus it makes replacing damaged components less costly. I’d have preferred if Sonos had given the adapter foldaway blades for even greater portability as Apple does with its MacBook bricks, but perhaps Sonos’ market research showed that it wasn’t a must-have.
The speaker also gets the same thoughtful touch controls that Sonos introduced on the Era 100 and Era 300.
 Volume control gets its own dedicated slider, so you no longer have to perform the first gen’s slightly awkward swiping gestures to track-skip forward and backward.
Sonos also has divided microphone control into two parts. There’s a touch control on the top of the speaker for quick muting of the mic, plus a hardware-based switch on the back panel that lets you physically disable the mic should you have concerns about privacy. I like that Sonos takes the issue of privacy seriously enough to have added this feature to the Move 2, but there’s an unfortunate side effect of using it: Sonos’ Automatic Trueplay room tuning function requires that the mic remain live, so you’ll need to make a choice between total privacy and convenience.
Sonos Move 2: setup, streaming, and software Sonos fans don’t need me to tell them how great the company’s software is. But if you’re among the uninitiated, you’re in for a treat. Using the free Sonos app (iOS/Android/PC/Mac), setting up a Sonos speaker like the Move 2 is a breeze, whether it’s your first Sonos product or you’re adding it to an existing system.
I added it to an existing system and didn’t even have to tell the app I wanted to do so — the moment I sat the Move 2 on its powered charging cradle, the app prompted me to add it. Less than a minute later, it was ready to go.
Because the Sonos Move 2 is both a Wi-Fi- and Bluetooth-enabled speaker (more on how these work in a moment), you don’t need to use the app after the initial setup. Whether in Bluetooth mode or if you’re using Apple AirPlay 2 from an Apple device, you can stream music from your favorite source and never think about any other features — but you’ll be missing out if you do.
The Sonos app is not only the way you’ll adjust the Move 2’s settings like treble/bass, but it’s also an incredibly powerful tool for finding and playing music. You can add virtually any streaming music service, plus any personal music libraries you may have stored on a computer in your home, and search them all simultaneously. From there, you can build playlists that pull tracks from any of these sources and, if you have more than one Sonos speaker, choose to play the same music everywhere, or different selections in each location.
I’ve only seen one platform come anywhere close to Sonos’ level of software sophistication, but that platform — LinkPlay’s Wiim — doesn’t work with any wireless speakers yet.
Sonos Move 2: battery life and connections 1.
Sonos Move 2 sitting on charging base.
2.
Sonos Move (Gen 1) charging base in black and Sonos Move 2 charging base.
3.
Sonos Move (Gen 1) charging adapter in black and Sonos Move 2 charging adapter.
The best parts of the Move 2’s design are invisible. Like the Era 100 and Era 300, the USB-C port on the back of the Move 2 is now a highly versatile interface. It can be used with two optional adapters. A 3.5mm line-in adapter ($19) lets you connect external analog audio sources like a turntable. And a combo adapter ($39) adds an Ethernet jack next to the line-in port in case you’d like to use a wired network connection. These are two great features the first Move lacked.
The 3.5mm adapter is particularly useful. Our 19-inch kitchen TV has lousy built-in speakers so we’ve always connected to an external speaker via the headphone jack. That gave us better sound, but at the cost of complexity and clutter. The external speaker needed to be turned on every time we wanted to watch TV, plus we still had a Sonos One speaker nearby so we could stream music. With the 3.5mm adapter, the Move 2 is able to seamlessly switch between being our TV speaker and our streaming speaker, automatically selecting the analog input as soon as it detects audio coming in on that port.
The Sonos Move 2 (white) has a dedicated microphone kill switch and Bluetooth button that doesn’t affect Wi-Fi connectivity. Also pictured is the Sonos Move (Gen 1).
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As before, you can use the USB-C port to charge the speaker when away from its cradle — although you’ll need a powerful USB-C Power Delivery (PD) charger — but now you can use the Move 2’s internal battery to charge your other devices.
Speaking of the Move 2’s battery, Sonos has more than doubled its playback time to up to 24 hours, versus 11 hours on the original Move. Its standby time is now much longer, too. The original Move was supposed to last 120 hours in standby mode, but it typically cuts out after about 24 hours. Once the Move 2 was fully charged, it happily stayed in standby mode for five days. Like the first-gen, the battery is a replaceable unit that can be accessed via hidden screws on the bottom of the speaker.
Unfortunately, there’s no visible indicator of remaining battery life on the speaker itself, and the app can only be used to see the battery level when connected to Wi-Fi. However, if you turn on Sonos Voice Control — I’ll cover voice assistants in a moment — some commands work even when you’re away from Wi-Fi, like “Hey Sonos, how’s my battery life?” As I alluded to earlier, the Move 2 can maintain Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connections simultaneously — a big advantage over the first-gen Move, which needed to be manually switched between them. With both active, you can keep controlling the speaker’s settings via the Sonos app, even as you’re streaming over its Bluetooth connection. Even better, you can group the Move 2 with other Sonos speakers over Wi-Fi, letting you use that Bluetooth connection as the audio source for every speaker in your house. AirPlay 2 connections on Sonos have always worked this way, but since Android devices aren’t AirPlay compatible, it stopped short of being a handy feature for all Sonos users.
One option I wish Sonos would offer is the ability to use the Move 2 as a speakerphone when connected via Bluetooth.
Sonos Move 2: sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The original Move has two things going for it in the sound department: rich, full bass — a trait it shares with the rest of the Sonos family — and a wider soundstage that lets you get the most out of the speaker when outdoors. Still, the first-gen doesn’t quite deliver on midrange clarity and definition as well as I would like, something that kept me from using it as my preferred Sonos speaker when inside.
The Move 2 — perhaps because of its dual angled tweeters — fills in much of the detail I felt its predecessor lacked. It also delivers more low-end bass, giving the Move 2 a more authoritative signature both inside and out.
This new sound signature takes the Move from being a great Sonos speaker for the outdoors to being a great Sonos speaker, period.
Sonos’ Auto Trueplay uses the speaker’s built-in mics to assess the acoustic properties of your space and tune the Move 2’s EQ accordingly so you get the best sound. It uses motion sensors to repeat the process every time it detects that you’ve moved the speaker. In most cases, I didn’t find that it made a huge difference, unlike Sonos’ standard iPhone-based Trueplay tuning , which I’ve used to significantly improve the sound of the company’s other wireless speakers.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends My advice is to simply leave it on (assuming you’re OK with the mics being used), but with one small caveat: On certain tracks, I noticed a sibilant quality to the vocals. Sibilance is that hiss-like sound that can accompany “s” sounds in speech, or it can show up as a kind of distortion on cymbals and other high-frequency sounds. After discussing the issue with Sonos, it may be related to Auto Trueplay — disabling the feature seemed to help.
Using the bass and treble adjustments within the Sonos app can dramatically alter the Move 2’s characteristics, so don’t be afraid to try those settings if you’re still not getting the sound you expect.
Sonos says those angled tweeters give the Move 2 true stereo sound and I’m not going to contradict that. However, unless you sit across from the Move 2, facing it head-on and perfectly centered, you likely won’t hear much of a left/right stereo effect. What you will get is an even wider soundstage than with the original Move. Inside, that creates a more immersive listening experience, while outdoors, it makes the Move 2 sound like a bigger speaker than its physical size would suggest.
Overall, it’s an improved performance over the original, which was pretty good to begin with.
Sonos Move 2: voice assistants Simon Cohen / Digital Trends With the exception of its entry-level Ray soundbar , Sonos is a big believer in smart speaker functionality. You’ll find microphones built into nearly all of its speakers, and the company was one of the first to give its owners a choice over which voice assistant to install — Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant. In 2022, it even created its own in-house voice assistant, Sonos Voice Control , which uses an AI model to accurately mimic the sound of actor Giancarlo Esposito ’s voice — it’s uncanny how real it sounds.
The original Sonos Move gives you the option to run any of these three voice assistants, but the Move 2 has been reduced to just Amazon Alexa and Sonos Voice Control. It’s the same constraint that was placed on the Era 100 and Era 300 when those products launched. At the time, Sonos claimed that Google had changed its hardware compatibility requirements for Google Assistant, resulting in a technical hurdle that couldn’t be overcome on the Era speakers.
It’s hard to know what to make of this explanation, especially in a world where JBL’s new Authentics smart speakers can run Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant simultaneously. It seems unlikely that, given Sonos’ long history with smart speaker tech, it can’t match JBL’s expertise. Sonos and Google’s acrimonious relationship is a more believable root cause.
Regardless, the Move 2 works well as an Amazon Alexa device, and being able to use Sonos Voice Control at the same time to issue Sonos-specific commands is a very handy bonus — no other smart speaker company offers anything nearly as powerful.
Sonos Move 2: should you buy it? If you had been toying with the idea of buying the original Move, you now have even more reasons to pull the trigger on its successor. The Move 2 may cost a little bit more, but with better sound, a far longer battery life, and the ability to connect external devices, you’re getting a lot more value.
Already own a Move? The Move 2 could make for a nice upgrade, but you should probably bear a few things in mind. First, you can’t stereo-pair a first-gen Move and a Move 2. Sonos has always had a strict policy for stereo pairing — only identical products are allowed to do it. Second, the Move 2’s biggest benefits over the original are its longer battery life and its ability to connect to external devices. If neither of these matter to you, save your money. Finally, the absence of Google Assistant as a smart speaker option robs the Move 2 of some of its usefulness, especially if you’re already deeply invested in the Google Home ecosystem.
Editors' Recommendations B&O’s latest speaker is a love letter to aluminum JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans The best Bluetooth speakers for 2023: Marshall, Sonos, JBL, and more B&O’s picnic basket speaker pumps out 280 watts of power while it charges your phone Sonos could soon be the soundtrack for your next shopping trip Product Reviews Sonos Speaker Reviews Audio / Video Looking for a smart speaker that doesn't look like a smart speaker? Look no further than Pantheone Audio's Obsidian. The Australian company is no stranger to creating speakers that double as works of art. Its debut product, the $2,750 Pantheone I would look at home in a gallery, and the $1,399 Obsidian makes a similar statement, only on a smaller, portable scale.
For its smarts, the Obsidian (which comes in black or white) leans on Amazon Alexa, but it's also a well-featured wireless multiroom speaker that can connect via Wi-Fi, AirPlay 2, or Bluetooth, plus it has a 3.5mm analog audio input for sources like turntables. In addition to an on/off switch, there are illuminated front touch controls for Alexa, playback, and volume.
Audio / Video When Sonos recently debuted its two newest wireless speakers -- the Era 100 and Era 300 -- it broke with years of precedence by adding Bluetooth, a connection option that has never been offered on the company’s non-portable speakers. At the time, I thought Bluetooth on an Era speaker worked the same way as it does on the Sonos Move. I was wrong.
It turns out, the Era speakers use Bluetooth in tandem with their Wi-Fi connections, as opposed to the Move, which treats Bluetooth as a completely separate mode. That has some profound implications for what you can do with one of the new Era speakers within a Sonos system, as well as a few caveats about what you can’t do.
Audio / Video When you think about wireless music, one name comes to mind. Sonos. And unless you’re a diehard analog music fan who shuns anything digital, you’ve likely encountered the Sonos brand. It effectively pioneered and normalized the idea of multi-room, digital wireless audio, and it’s still the gold standard to beat.
Curious about what exactly Sonos does, and how it works in the same world that already includes Apple, Spotify, and even your old Technics turntable? Is Sonos right for you? Let's dig into it.
What is Sonos? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
