Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best smart speakers for 2023 By John Velasco and Tyler Lacoma Close Smart speakers are an integral part of any smart home, often serving as the brains of the entire operation. Beyond pumping out impressive audio or giving you updates on the morning news, smart speakers can listen to voice commands before passing out instructions to the rest of your gadgets. Functionality varies widely by product, making it important to find the best smart speaker for your setup.
Thankfully, it’s hard to pick a dud in today’s loaded marketplace. Whether you’re an Apple loyalist, a Google enthusiast, or an avid user of Amazon Alexa, just about every big tech company is churning out incredible smart speakers. But if you need some help narrowing down all your options, here’s a look at the best smart speakers of 2023.
More More More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Sonos One (Gen 2) The best smart speaker Excellent compatibility with services and voice assistants Great sound Bluetooth 5.0 Expensive for a smart speaker The second-generation version of the Sonos One is even more user-friendly, with an updated design that adds touch controls and incorporates Bluetooth 5.0 for a variety of connection options. Its core features still remain, however, including the ability to choose between Alexa or Google Assistant and to link with other Sonos speakers through Wi-Fi to fill the room with even more sound.
The speaker's far-field microphone array effortlessly hears voice commands from across a room, even when music is playing. If you have qualms about privacy, Sonos claims that muting the microphones is done via hardware, ensuring that when the mic indicator light is off, the speaker is definitely not listening. With AirPlay 2, you can stream any audio from an Apple device directly to the speaker or to any other Sonos speaker in your home.
But our favorite aspect of this model is simply the fact that it's a Sonos speaker. The Sonos wireless whole-home music system remains the very best we've ever tested. It has support for almost every major music streaming service, and it's all controlled from an app on your phone, tablet, or PC. Not only is the app full of great features like Apple Music playlist compatibility and the ability to group multiple speakers, but these features are also remarkably easy to use.
Thanks to Sonos' partnership with Ikea, there's also a growing ecosystem of cool third-party devices that can be used to control the Sonos One and any other Sonos speakers in your home. The Sonos One (Gen 2) is a fantastic speaker and a great way to smarten up your home.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon Echo Dot (5th Gen) with Clock The best budget smart speaker Re-designed for better sound quality and deeper bass New touch controls and brighter display Built-in Eero technology Eero features will go to waste without the right network The 4th-gen Amazon Echo Dot already upgraded the design to an orb that matched the larger flagship Echo and greatly improved the sound of the speaker — but Amazon outdid itself with the 5th-gen model and the host of smart features it contains.
Alexa is fully supported, of course, and those little speakers do an incredible job of filling a small space with sound. The clock version (not necessary but nice) is especially well-suited for an office desk or a bedside table — and onboard controls include privacy switches among other benefits. Plus, as is tradition, there are kid versions of the speaker , this time with owl and dragon skins.
Amazon also added even more useful technology to the 5th-gen model, including a higher-resolution display, and new accelerometer and temperature sensors to provide more information about your surroundings. There's a new chip also for tap-based controls (all the better for an alarm clock), and it now has Eero tech built in, allowing it to connect with an Eero router to help extend it The most appealing part about the Amazon Echo Dot (5th Gen) with Clock is its price. At $60, it's easy on just about any budget — meaning you can buy multiple units without forking over a huge sum of money! And who doesn't like that? More Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more Best Waterpik Black Friday deals on water flossers and toothbrushes The best KitchenAid mixer Black Friday deals (and accessories from $17) Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon Echo (4th Gen) The best smart speaker for Amazon Alexa Charming new spherical design Dazzling LED light ring Acts as an Amazon Sidewalk Bridge Great sounding audio Bass strains at highest volume The larger, spherical design of the 4th-gen Echo doesn't just look cool and modern. It also packs a set of speakers specializing in 360-degree sound designed for larger areas, filling spaces with tunes or other audio while listening for voice commands from across the room.
Of course, it's a wonderful centerpiece in the living room if you're planning to entertain guests, like a speaker in the kitchen for music, and so on. Other features like a 3.5mm auxiliary jack, Bluetooth, and stereo pairing round out its audio features. When it comes to controlling the smart home, the Amazon Echo (4th Gen) can be used to turn off lights, check up on calendar appointments, and order pizza.
Meanwhile, it can also monitor your home while you're away by sending you notifications if it hears the sounds of smoke alarms with Alexa Guard.
 You're getting a rich smart speaker in terms of performance, and features with the Amazon Echo (4th Gen).
More John Velasco / Digital Trends Google Nest Audio The best smart speaker for Google Assistant Superb audio performance Charming design for any decor Adapts audio quality to any room Attractive $100 cost Dense weight Too complacent with feature upgrades Google Nest Audio plays to a wide range of people because it brings that perfect mixture of intelligence and raw power.
What's apparent is that it's a substantially beefier speaker than the Google Home — aided by its 19mm tweeter and 75mm mid-woofer. The result is a Google Assistant-powered smart speaker that roars with incredible power. There's no denying that it's far more equipped at playing music than its successor, just because it's 76% louder and has a 50% boost in bass.
You can also pair it with another Google Nest Audio for stereo sound, plus you can group multiple speakers in other rooms to play your tunes everywhere — while being harmoniously in sync. The best part of Nest Audio is that you're not paying a fortune for premium audio with its $100 sticker price. It's affordable, packs all the intelligence of Google Assistant, and even delivers impressive sound.
More John Velasco / Digital Trends Apple HomePod Mini The best affordable smart speaker for HomeKit Computational audio optimizes the experience Clean-sounding highs and mids Compact size makes it discrete It's the most affordable HomeKit home hub Siri lacks the advanced intelligence of its competitors Short power cord Apple certainly learned how tough it can be to complete in the smart speaker space. While its HomePod faced stiff competition when it launched, its sibling in the HomePod Mini fared much better. Part of that reasoning is that the HomePod Mini was cheaper, while still offering excellent audio performance.
Apple users will appreciate the HomePod Mini in the home because Siri can be leveraged on the speaker to accomplish a number of things, such as turning on the lights, unlocking the door, and much more. When it comes to audio, there's still a lot of power behind its compact design — but what's impressive is its ability to adapt to whatever it's playing. For example, if you're watching a movie on your television and using the HomePod Mini as your audio source, it'll tune the audio accordingly so that dialogue won't be drowned out by the sound effects in the background.
Speaking of home theater experiences, you can achieve that by pairing two HomePod Mini speakers together. In fact, you'd be surprised by how well it sounds compared to a traditional soundbar.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos Beam (Gen 2) The best smart speaker for TV Easy setup Immersive, room-filling sound Sleek design AirPlay 2 No HDMI inputs Requires compatible TV for Dolby Atmos Even the best TVs typically have lousy sound quality due to their tiny built-in speakers, which makes soundbars an attractive option for many. However, there are a lot of soundbars and not all of them are as smart as the modern home theater needs. That's where this excellent iteration of the Sonos Beam steps up.
A compact and well-styled bar, it can easily fit under the smallest of TVs on either a console or on the wall using the optional bracket. Like every Sonos product, it has impressive sound quality for its size and can become part of a much larger multiroom audio system. The Gen 2 model is further improved with the addition of Dolby Atmos, an important part of home entertainment audio these days. The Sonos app lets you stream from virtually every music service on the planet and it does an excellent job managing your private music collection, too.
But the reason we've chosen the Beam for this roundup is its smart speaker chops. With the ability to run either Google Assistant or Alexa as its voice assistant, it can serve as the hub for a host of home automation commands. It can translate spoken commands for Google Assistant or Alexa into signals that control your TV. "Alexa, turn on Bedroom TV," will do just that. Other commands, like "Alexa, turn the volume up on Bedroom TV,” work well too, as will similar commands for Google Assistant. You can also control the speaker with an app, or use it with Apple AirPlay 2.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Bose Portable Home Speaker The best portable smart speaker Very portable High sensitivity mics Great 360-degree sound Alexa and Google Assistant AirPlay 2 Limited app features Missing some midrange Not ideal for Android You already know that we love the Sonos One for its ability to let you choose your preferred voice assistant. The Bose Portable Home Speaker gives you that choice too, plus a built-in rechargeable battery, carry-handle, and Bluetooth so you can take it with you anywhere you go.
Though considerably more expensive than the Sonos One, the Bose is the ideal choice for people who demand absolute flexibility. When at home and connected to your Wi-Fi network, the Portable Home Speaker is a full-fledged smart speaker that lets you talk to Alexa or Google Assistant. Using your voice to control music playback via Spotify works like a charm, but the Bose app gives you additional options like multiple speaker groupings. The app isn't as good as the one Sonos provides, but as long as you don't intend to build a whole-home music system using Bose speakers, we doubt you'll mind.
While you shouldn't let it fall in the pool, the speaker is protected from small amounts of water thanks to its IPX4 rating , so you need not fear the occasional unexpected rain shower.
Apple users will love the AirPlay 2 integration which lets you stream any audio — be it music from your favorite streaming service, or the soundtrack from a Netflix movie — directly to the speaker when connected to Wi-Fi. When on the road (or if you're an Android user) the Bose Portable Home Speaker's Bluetooth connection lets you keep the tunes going. With 12 hours of battery life between charges, those tunes can go on for most of a day.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Marshall Woburn II The best smart speaker for room-filling sound Classic, durable design Surprisingly clear beautiful sound Bluetooth and AptX support No voice assistant support Smart speakers, it can be argued, often suffer from two drawbacks. First, they're not the most attractive. Whether it's a small plastic puck or a fabric-wrapped cylinder, few of them add to the decor of your space. Second, though some of these speakers sound very good, they lack the kind of power needed to really fill a room with big, bold sound.
The Marshall Woburn II addresses both of these issues head-on. With its retro-cool, guitar amp-inspired design, there's no denying the speaker makes a statement. That vintage vibe carries all the way through with physical control knobs on the top surface and chunky rubber feet on the bottom. It gives instant appeal to any room while making placement easier than ever to decide.
But the speaker is more than a fancy face. Inside, you'll find excellent drivers including two 1-inch tweeters and dual 5.25-inch subwoofers powered by class D amps that equal 110 watts. Go ahead and crank up the volume — you won't get a hint of distortion even at the highest settings.
In addition to the analog controls, the speaker supports Bluetooth 5.0 with AptX to connect to your mobile device. The only downside to this high-quality speaker is that it doesn't support voice assistants directly, although you can still use phone-based voice assistants to connect if you prefer. Overall, the Marshall Woburn II is an ideal mix of style and reverberating sound for those who take their wireless sound seriously.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon Echo Studio The best smart speaker for 3D sound Class-leading bass Slick and simple setup Dolby Atmos and 360 Reality Audio support Large, sprawling soundstage All the Alexa smarts Midrange occasionally muffled Brittle touch to lighter instruments 3D music still in limited supply Though it bears a resemblance to the Apple HomePod with its cylindrical shape, the Echo Studio is, in fact, an entirely new breed of smart speaker. It's still an Amazon Echo, which means that you get all of the benefits of being able to issue voice commands to Alexa to control everything from your music to your thermostat. But when it comes to audio, the Echo Studio is in a class of its own.
With the launch of the Amazon Music HD streaming service, Amazon is now a leading source of top-quality music. The service offers CD-quality audio and hi-res audio, as well as immersive 3D music tracks via Dolby Atmos Music, and Sony 360 Reality Audio. And for now, the Echo Studio is the only speaker on the planet that works with all of them.
CD-quality and hi-res audio are fairly easy to understand: They're the best versions of stereo audio you can get.
Dolby Atmos and Sony 360 Reality Audio are different. These two new formats expand your music into something far wider, deeper, and immersive — which is why we refer to them as 3D. The Echo Studio not only projects these formats around a room the way they were meant to be heard, but it also reinforces the sound with a clean and powerful bass response we simply didn't expect from a speaker at this price.
The Amazon Echo Studio may not please all audiophiles — it tends to muffle some midrange sounds for stereo sound — but it is nonetheless a superb value and (at the moment) a unique smart speaker that leads a growing movement. Also, note that Amazon announced an update for Echo Studio firmware in 2022 to give it Amazon's own spatial audio processing, designed to improve clarity compared to standard audio. You'll need Amazon Music Unlimited to use it, but it's a notable upgrade to the Studio's sound options.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends HomePod 2023 The best smart speaker for HomeKit Great sound quality Incredible bass performance Dazzling Spatial Audio surround Plug and Play wireless Slick design Limited connection options No direct Spotify playback If you love HomeKit but need something with a bit more power than the HomePod mini, consider opting for the new Apple HomePod. It offers all the same functionality as its smaller sibling, but thanks to its larger footprint, the HomePod is capable of producing loud, room-filling sounds. Inside the device, you’ll find a high-excursion woofer and an array of beamforming tweeters, which is just a fancy way of saying the HomePod sounds fantastic.
Another perk of the HomePod is its ability to optimize its sound for any room. Using Room Sensing technology and Spatial Audio with Dolby Atmos, you can rest assured your smart speaker is pumping out the best possible sound at all times. And if you want to fill your entire home with great sound, HomePod supports multiroom audio through AirPlay. It’s not cheap at $300, but no doubt you’re getting your money’s worth.
More Frequently Asked Questions That depends on which ecosystem you like and use most. Both have their benefits and drawbacks, and both work with the most popular streaming services.
 Alexa tends to work with more smart devices, but this is becoming less of a factor with time. If you’re undecided, pick a smart speaker that gives you a choice like the Sonos One.
Yes, they have a lot of functionality that doesn’t require buttons, making smart speakers great for visually impaired people. They are particularly useful when paired with smart devices around the home that can be controlled via voice. Even without smart devices, these speakers can help make schedules, read the news, look up information, plan events, provide recipes to cook meals, and lots more — really putting the "assistant" in voice assistant.
Some smart speakers, like the Marshall Stanmore II Voice , have 3.5mm inputs. If you need an AUX input, we recommend making sure the speaker has one before purchasing.
No, most smart speakers do not have an FM tuner. If you want to listen to the radio, your best bet is to play an internet radio station on these speakers. Some services do turn FM channels into internet stations you can listen to on smart devices, like myTuner Radio.
It's not common. Batteries are more common on simpler Bluetooth speakers designed more for portability. If you want to take your smart speaker with you on the go, we recommend making sure it has a built-in or add-on battery (like the Bose Portable Home Speaker ).
Yes, smart speakers generally need Wi-Fi to set up and use. You can access some features with Bluetooth, but a Wi-Fi connection is still needed for the smart speaker to operate.
Yes and no. After some initial hiccups, smart speakers typically work like this: The mics are always listening for their wake word, like, "Hey, Alexa." But they don't recognize or record anything else. Once they do hear the wake word, they listen to the speech after it to interpret the request. That command is typically recorded, but settings in apps like Alexa allow you to stop the speaker from storing the command in the cloud, or make sure it's deleted soon afterward. Smart speakers also come with physical mute buttons that will shut down the mics entirely if you don't want them on.
Today's smart speakers have voice profiles so each person in the family can create their own profile with their own preferences. You can also use apps to set controls, such as disabling any music with profanity, etc. That being said, there have been cases of kids using smart speakers to order things online (100 gallons of ice cream, etc.) or otherwise getting into trouble, so it's a good idea to limit what they can do.
Compatibility has long been a problematic part of smart platforms that power smart speakers and other devices. In past years, it's been a tug of war between brands to get third-party smart devices to support their own voice assistants and apps, so you may have a device that works on Alexa but not with Google Home, and so on. Alexa has generally done the best with third-party support, followed by Google, then Apple's HomeKit and Home app.
That's starting to change and change quickly. The big three smart brands, along with a wide variety of other tech companies, banded together and created a new smart home protocol to work on all their platforms, called Matter. These days, you can look for the Matter logo or check to see if your devices are backward compatible with Matter and rest easy. Older devices, however, may still have limited compatibility, so you may have to do some extra research.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats The best Vitamix blender Black Friday deals — from just $125 The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Audio / Video Best Products Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home If you want to bring your thermostat into the age of smart tech, it's highly recommended that you check out the Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals that are available for Black Friday. The discounts on the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat aren't expected to last long though, as stocks are already probably running low. If you need help looking for Black Friday deals involving either smart home device, and if you're having trouble deciding which one to go for, you'll get your answers below. To complete your smart home, check out Nest Black Friday deals and Ring Black Friday deals too.
Best Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals Different retailers have slashed the prices of the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat, so there's no shortage of options on where you want to purchase these smart home devices. However, so you can secure your Nest Thermostat quickly, we've rounded up our favorite picks below -- you'll still have to act fast though, as the offers may end at any moment.
Google Nest Thermostat -- Smart Home Ring has made some of the most popular tech for the smart home over the last decade or so, with the Ring Video Doorbell becoming a staple of home security. But Ring makes a lot of tech products for around the house, and with Black Friday around the corner, a lot of it is already starting to be discounted. Some of the best early Black Friday deals are on products made by Ring, and we’ve tracked down some of the best deals on Ring products you can find for Black Friday.
Check out Nest Black Friday deals and Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals for similar discounts.
Best Ring Doorbell Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
