Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides What is an IPS monitor? By Tyler Lacoma Close When picking a new monitor, it’s common to look for certain specs like a higher refresh rate, better resolution, updated port options , and similar features. But it’s also a good idea to take a look at the panel type. Today’s LCD (liquid-crystal display) monitors can use several different panel types, and one of the most common is called IPS.
What does IPS mean? How does an IPS panel work? What are the benefits of an IPS panel? Are there any downsides to an IPS panel? Who should consider getting an IPS panel monitor? Do IPS monitors work with syncing technology like G-Sync? Are IPS monitors similar to LED monitors? Let’s take a look at IPS, how these panels work, and why you may want to choose an IPS panel over other options.
Dell / Dell What does IPS mean? IPS stands for in-plane switching. This refers to an LCD panel technology that shifts how the liquid crystals align to produce color.
How does an IPS panel work? LCD panels have several different layers, each with its own important role in creating color, plus backlighting to light up the panel so the colors can be seen, typically using LED lights.
HP unveils new IPS Black monitor with one key new feature IPS vs. VA displays: Which is best for your monitor or TV? Dell’s new Fast IPS gaming monitors have 1ms response time The most important layer in the panel is the thin liquid film that holds the crystals that can change orientation if light passes through from the LED lights behind (or turning off), creating the light and dark areas you see on your monitor screen. Add in a couple of color filter layers over the crystals so light turns different colors, and you’ve got your image. An electric current is constantly feeding into this liquid film to change colors as you use your computer.
This brings us to IPS technology. In an IPS panel, crystals are always aligned the same way, and an electric pulse can shift them 90 degrees, essentially “switching” them between active and resting states. This is in contrast to other panel types, such as TN panels that use different helix-shaped crystals that don’t move in the same way. The IPS version is more efficient and makes better use of its polarizers to control what light is allowed through.
What are the benefits of an IPS panel? There are several notable benefits for IPS panels that make them one of the best panel technologies around: Color accuracy : The IPS design allows for better color accuracy — that means that they can reproduce accurate 8-bit color, something other monitors can struggle with. That’s why IPS monitors are great for photo editing.
Wider color gamut potential : A color gamut is a full range of colors. You often see monitors listed with the percentage of a specific color gamut, like the Adobe RGB gamut, that they can cover. IPS panels cover a wider range than typical alternatives, which also helps with color accuracy.
Excellent viewing angles : IPS panels are also known for their wide viewing angles, generally about 178 degrees. That makes them more visible and color accurate when viewed from the side or above, an excellent quality in a monitor being used by more than one person.
Effective contrast ratio : The “contrast ratio” spec you see in monitor marketing doesn’t mean much at all, but some panels really do have a more notable contrast than others. IPS panels have very good contrast ratios compared to the alternatives. It’s not the same as an OLED, but certainly better than you’d find on most fast-paced TN-panel gaming monitors.
Are there any downsides to an IPS panel? There are a couple of issues certain kinds of users may run into with an IPS monitor: They tend to be expensive. Compared to other, older panel technologies, IPS monitors tend to be more expensive, so you’ll have to pay for the benefits of this technology.
More affordable IPS monitors won’t feature the same high refresh rates as comparably priced TN panels. You can get high refresh rate IPS monitors, but they are much more expensive in turn.
Some IPS panels have a slight glow effect at the edges, caused by their backlighting. This may be more likely on older or lower-end IPS monitors.
Who should consider getting an IPS panel monitor? IPS monitors are excellent for professionals. Photographers, graphic designers, video editors, and artists are well-advised to get an IPS monitor for their professional work (keeping in mind that individual IPS models can still vary considerably between themselves). The wide viewing angle also makes this panel type well-suited for entertainment, so if you like to binge your favorite shows on your computer with other people, IPS panels are a strong choice.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Gamers can enjoy IPS monitors too, especially in slower-paced, immersive games, but you’ll have to pay a premium to get the same high refresh rates as more affordable TN panel monitors.
Do IPS monitors work with syncing technology like G-Sync? Yes, they are completely compatible with syncing technologies , and you’ll find IPS monitors that support G-Sync and/or Freesync quite commonly.
Are IPS monitors similar to LED monitors? There is no one type of LED monitor. LED (light-emitting diode) simply refers to the backlighting of an LCD monitor. Most current LCD monitors of all types use LED backlighting (some are OLED, but that’s a different story). IPS monitors are, by nature, LED monitors.
Editors' Recommendations What is swap used in Mac Activity Monitor? What is IPS Black? LG’s new monitor technology, explained What to look for in a gaming monitor IPS Black debuts on Dell monitors to greatly improve contrast HP’s new Z studio monitors have a pop-up 4K webcam for crisp video calls Computing Not all gamers have eyes for refresh rates and ultrawides. Many are interested in finding a solid 1440p experience on a more traditional aspect ratio that can handle any game with an eye on detail. Whether you’re upgrading from an old 1080p monitor or looking for an update that balances resolution and other specs more capably, you need a 1440p model that can get the job done. Our in-depth reviews have led us to several of the best models available this year. Take a look and see which one’s right for you, starting with our top Odyssey G7 pick from Samsung.
Best 1440p gaming monitors Samsung Odyssey G7 LC32G75TQSNXZA LG UltraGear 27GP850-B Asus ROG Strix XG27AQM Dell S3220DGF Gaming Monitor Acer Nitro XV272U Computing Whether you're watching movies, playing games, or merely working at 4K resolution, it all looks fantastic. Everything is crisp, tack-sharp, and impossibly clear. Colors are vivid and lush, blacks are as deep as the night sky. But details are not without their cost. If you’re looking to get into 4K PC gaming or movie watching, you’re in for a bit of a journey.
Getting your system up to spec for 4K isn’t as straightforward as it is for 1080p, or even 1440p. Worry not, though: We've rounded up everything you need to play 4K games and movies.
A powerful graphics card is a must Computing Buying a new gaming monitor isn't easy, especially with such a wide range of options available on the market. Today, HP is introducing seven new models to complicate that decision further, though they come with a softener to make the decision easy: Price.
The new monitors fall under the X Series line (Which isn't at all confusable with Microsoft's Series X), with four 27-inch models, two 32-inch panels, and one 34-inch ultrawide model. The difference between these models is in the details, with some packing higher-quality IPS panels and/or higher resolutions, or they have a curve, as denoted by the c in their name.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
