Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best 4K TVs under $500: premium picture on a budget By Michael Bizzaco and Simon Cohen Close There was a time when 4K resolution alone would guarantee you’d be spending upwards of $1,500 on a TV, regardless of the size. But we’re more than a decade away from the singular fanfare of a high pixel count, which means 4K TVs cost much less moolah.
 In fact, did you know that you can actually find several UHD sets that sell for less than $500 and they won’t fall apart the moment you look at them? Hyperbole aside, our proclamation is true, and we’ve rounded up the very best 4K TVs for under $500 that you can buy online and in stores right now.
More More More Hisense Hisense 55-inch U6K ULED The best 4K TV for under $500 Powerful picture Good price Supports all major HDR formats Integrated Google Assistant and Chromecast Only 60Hz refresh rate No HDMI 2.1 inputs Hisense is one of the top brands in the midtier TV bracket, and we’re simply bewildered by the kind of picture quality its low-cost sets are able to achieve. Year after year, Hisense continues to rise through the ranks of TV makers, and the 2023 U6K ULED is one of the company’s finest budget entries thus far. Now when we say “budget,” that doesn’t mean you can expect some lousy brightness and colors for the sake of saving a dollar or two, because the U6K performs like a chart-topping set. Hisense’s Mini-LED backlighting is the true backbone here, delivering the kind of precision dimming and peak brightness levels (up to 600 nits) normally reserved for $1,000-plus models.
Other awesome features include quantum dots for bigger and bolder colors, Filmmaker Mode for giving you the kind of cinematic experience normally reserved for the silver screen, and support for all major HDR formats, including Dolby Vision, HDR10/HDR10+, and HLG. Do keep in mind that the U6K maxes out at 60Hz, even though Hisense has thought to include a Game Mode Plus to help reduce input lag and improve motion performance (but it’s still not 120Hz).
On the sound front, your ears will be elated to learn that the U6K supports Dolby Atmos should you want to get into all that surround sound with either a full speaker setup or a soundbar , which you should probably get anyway as the built-in sound of the U6K isn't anything to write home about. Google TV is the operating system of choice here, which means you'll have access to all the streaming services and apps you need, plus its Chromecast built-in feature means you can mirror your phone and other devices to it, too.
More Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Roku 55-inch Class Plus Series QLED Another killer QLED High brightness Brilliant color Snappy operation Impressive sound Great remote Poor off-angle performance Contrast suffers in high-brightness scenes Some motion blur Anyone looking for eye-catching QLED brightness and color for under $500 will not be disapppointed with the Roku 55-inch Plus Series QLED. It rocks one of the best smart TV platforms you can find on a TV and it’s got incredible picture to boot.
While QLED displays are typically reserved for midtier and flagship TVs, we’re seeing more and more budget-friendly sets hit the market with these ultra-colorful screens -- and now Roku is joining the party! The Roku 55-inch Plus Series QLED is right at our price cap, and let’s just say that for the kind of brightness, color detail, and incredible HDR performance (HDR 10+, Dolby Vision, and HLG) you’ll get to experience, we wouldn’t bat an eye even if it cost $200 more.
That's not to mention you’ll be working with Roku’s amazing smart TV platform to gain access to your favorite movies and shows from services like Netflix, Hulu, and Disney+. DT's TV reviewer Caleb Denison thinks that Roku's Plus TVs will stand up well to similarly priced LG and Samsung TVs, but its biggest competition will be against the likes of TCL and Hisense in this coveted price range.
There’s one thing to keep in mind, though: the Plus Series tops out at 60Hz. That won’t be a big deal for some, but gamers may want something a little on the faster side. Then again, we suppose the inclusion of Roku’s awesome Voice Remote Pro might sweeten the deal enough. Not only can you program the controller to store shortcuts for your favorite apps, but the lost remote finder is a godsend for the black hole that lives beneath the couch cushions.
This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now Walmart’s Black Friday sale has a 50-inch 4K TV for $148 Image used with permission by copyright holder LG 50-Inch UK9000 An awesome LG LED Supports multiple voice assistants Great picture and 4K upscaling WebOS platform is sleek and easy to use Includes Filmmaker Mode Aggressive WebOS advertisements As part of LG's 2022 lineup, the UK9000 features the company's incredible a5 Gen 5 AI processor, the brains and brawn behind the powerful 4K picture that this TV delivers. Visually, the UK9000 displays excellent brightness levels that is great in dark rooms of brighter rooms, excellent color and contrast with support for HDR10 and HLG HDR formats, and some of the most effective 4K upscaling we've seen at this price.
But after picture quality, the real win with this set is its across-the-board compatibility with some of the most popular voice assistants. Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple HomeKit are the main players here, and once the UK9000 is connected to your home network, you'll be able to use the assistants to control your smart home equipment, search for movies and TV shows, adjust volume, and more.
LG's onboard WebOS system is an LG TV staple, and it's better than ever with the UK9000. Providing access to all the best streaming apps, from Netflix to Disney+, LG's smart TV platform also allows you to create multiple user profiles, allowing each member of the household to have their own customized look and feel for the UK9000's WebOS experience. Of course, if that's not your thing, you can always connect your preferred streaming device and have it your way.
Although the UK9000 does not support Dolby Atmos sound, it does support Dolby Digital for up to five channel of surround sound, which is still pretty decent, and lastly the UK9000 has three HDMI inputs, including one eARC input.
More TCL TCL 55-inch Q6 QLED Killer QLED value Stunning brightness and colors AMD Freesync and VRR support Supports all major HDR formats Solid price Only 60Hz refresh rate If you're a movie fan or a next-gen gamer who wants to get the best PlayStation 5 or Xbox Series X/S experience possible -- and for a relatively good price -- the TCL 55-inch Q6 QLED could be your pick.
Gamers, take note: There’s a 55-inch 4K QLED that costs less than $500 that prioritizes motion performance over anything else! The hero of the day is the TCL 55-inch Q6 QLED, and while the TV’s native refresh rate is only 60Hz, TCL made sure to include AMD Freesync and VRR that bump the frame rate up to 120Hz to help cut down on lag and frame drops. This 2023 TCL TV also puts out one heck of a picture. With its excellent brightness and vivid colors, you’ll feel like you’re watching a TV that costs way more than $500.
Is there a catch? Not really, although the Q6 only utilizes Direct LED lighting, compared to the more encompassing full-array backlighting on TCLs like the QM8.
 This missing feature translates to a little less pop in the brightness, color, and contrast departments, but it’s also why the Q6 is able to sell for less than $500. But don’t let a little less LED action deter you, because the Q6 still uses quantum dots to give some extra punch to its colors.
Oh, and while it also supports every major HDR format (Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10, and HLG), it does not support Dolby Atmos sound, but instead supports DTS Virtual:X: Advanced, which has some pretty solid immersive 3D sound as well. The TCL Q6 is a Google TV-driven television with three HDMI inputs, including one eARC port for connecting to consoles, TVs, and more.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Toshiba 55-inch C350 Fire TV For fans of the Fire TV platform Impressive picture quality Very low price Fire TV includes built-in Alexa support Only 60Hz refresh rate Alexa fans and those looking to score the best deal possible on a 55-inch 4K TV should take a hard look at the 2023 Toshiba C350 Series. Toshiba and Amazon’s Fire TV platform go together like peanut butter and jelly, and now that the next generation of the incredible C Series is on the shelves, we can sing the praises of this powerhouse combo. The real highlight is Toshiba’s Regza Engine 4K, the company’s picture-processing tech that optimizes each and every frame to ensure you’re getting as much visual kick as possible. And when you factor in the Dolby Vision and HDR10 support, you’ll be blown away by the kind of cinematic sharpness the C350 is capable of. Unfortunately, we’re only working with a 60Hz refresh rate on this model (noticing a pattern here?).
One of the other big pros here is Fire TV. Not only will you be able to access top movies and shows from services like Prime Video and Netflix, but you can also use Alexa to search for flicks and episodes, and do it all with your voice through the included voice remote.
Sound-wise, the C350LU is stacked for the price, with support for both Dolby Atmos and DTS Virtual: X surround sound formats, meaning you'll get immersive sound from your 5.1-channel (or more) sound setup or compatible soundbar.
Frequently Asked Questions Yes, but stick to the brands that have a good track record for quality products. We're very confident that our picks above will satisfy your desire for a good TV.
The answer to that depends on the brand, but you'll be looking at around 60 inches or less. As prices have increased, the screen sizes you can get for $500 have been getting smaller.
Yes, though its HDR performance (often a function of peak brightness) may not be quite as striking as that of more expensive screens – so set your expectations accordingly.
In short: No. OLED TVs are still very expensive to produce, and at the moment, only one company (LG Display) makes them for non-industrial applications. This may change as Samsung and other companies enter the OLED market.
That's contingent on the television, but if you find something with minimal input lag and advanced game modes you should be impressed.
Yes, so long as your computer has an HDMI output. Adapters can be used for other output types but frequently do not pass along audio.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Early Black Friday deal knocks 25% off this massive 98-inch 4K TV 55-inch Samsung 4K TV is under $300 in Walmart’s Black Friday sale Save $800 on this 85-inch Sony TV in Best Buy’s early Black Friday sale Best Products Audio / Video It's 2023 -- time to upgrade to an OLED TV. OLED technology gives you darker blacks, richer colors, and more accurate lighting than any other TV technology. While you're browsing for the best OLED TV deals, don't discount the best OLED TVs of 2023 just because you assume they're too expensive. In fact, our favorite OLED TV of the year has a fantastic discount today.
That's right, the best OLED TV out there, the LG C3, is currently on the sale at Best Buy. The 77-inch LG C3 is normally $3,200, but right now it's down to just $$2,500, a nice $700 discount that shouldn't be ignored. OLED TVs of this size don't get much cheaper than this, so you might as well go for a top shelf product. If you're not sure yet, keep reading as why dive into what makes the LG C3 the best OLED TV out there for your money. But make sure to grab this TV before the deal ends.
Audio / Video Best Buy has truly thrown itself into the early Black Friday deals season with some great TV deals. In particular, this is the ideal time to buy a new OLED TV with some massive discounts going on. We've picked out three of the best with each being an ideal addition to your living room. Keep reading while we take you through our recommendations so you know what to buy this sales season.
LG 48-inch A2 Series OLED TV -- $550, was $1,300 As one of the best TV brands, you can trust in LG including with its A2 series of TVs. The LG 48-inch A2 Series OLED TV is a bargain at this price. Its OLED technology means that you can enjoy the benefits of self-lit pixels with each pixel independently lighting up as needed so you get perfect blacks and vibrant colors all on the same scene. Adding further depth is technology like AI Picture Pro 4K which automatically enhances contrast and resolution with AI 4K upscaling and AI Tone Mapping. There's also 100% Color Volume and 100% Color Fidelity, along with a dedicated Filmmaker Mode which has Dolby Vision IQ and Dolby Atmos support. Even the operating system is easy to navigate making this a must-own at this price.
Audio / Video Best Buy has one of the best TV deals for anyone looking for an inexpensive 4K TV. At the moment, you can buy the Samsung 55-inch TU690T 4K TV for only $350. That's a saving of $80 off the regular price of $430 making it a considerable bargain for anyone seeking a well-known branded TV. Read on while we take you through what else you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the Samsung 55-inch TU690T 4K TV While the Samsung 55-inch TU690T 4K TV won't be competing with the very best TVs, it is still well worth considering thanks to being made by one of the best TV brands. The TV offers all the essentials you could need and a little more on top.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
