Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Hisense U8K ULED TV review: not 8K and that’s OK By Caleb Denison Close $1,400.00 Excellent brightness Vivid HDR colors Very good backlight control Excellent contrast Great for gaming Some color anomalies Scattered software bugs When first I saw the Hisense U8K , it was doing almost everything right. But there were some anomalies I was sure were indicative of a faulty sample, which, frankly, happens more often than you’d think – a byproduct of getting the first units in the wild, I’m afraid. Hisense quickly sent a replacement, and I’ve had a chance to thoroughly test it and am prepared with a full review.
Series and size details Brightness Color Motion Black levels Tone mapping Sound quality No surprise here First, I want to clarify that the model number, U8K, does not mean this is an 8K TV. The K is just the next acceptable letter in the alphabet — in 2022 we had the U8H, we skipped I and J for some reason, and now we’ve landed on the U8K. I repeat: This is just a model number and has nothing to do with the resolution.
No, indeed, the U8K is a 4K HDR ULED TV. ULED is just Hisense’s way of differentiating itself; this TV does use quantum dots. And like all of Hisense’s TVs from the U6 series up, it also has mini-LED backlights. One could call it a QLED , but Hisense likes ULED, so there you go.
Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Best 75-inch TV deals: Get a large screen for under $500 Now, let’s get into performance.
Series and size details While we reviewed the 65-inch (65U8K) model, our review also applies to the 55-inch and 75-inch models in the Hisense U8K Series.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 55-inch 55U8K $1,300 65-inch 65U8K $1,700 75-inch 75U8K $2,300 Brightness Let’s start with peak brightness because that seems like everyone’s favorite metric these days. It’s good news there. As expected, the Hisense U8K offers a peak brightness of right at 2,000 nits. Hisense only promises 1,500 nits on the box, and the U8K is yet another Hisense TV exceeding expectations — we’ve seen this before. The U8H did it, as did the U7H and some of the models before them. Two thousand nits is excellent considering the current street price of the TV is about $1,100 for the 65-inch model, meaning you can easily spend more with some competitors and not get as bright a TV.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends Now, that 2,000 nits is great for HDR highlights. As I’ll discuss shortly, this TV does a great job presenting HDR.
 But it also means this TV can get very bright for SDR content. It offers full-screen white brightness of about 750 to 800 nits, so its average picture level, or APL for short, is plenty sufficient for, say, viewing sports in a bright room during the middle of the day. That’s another reason to really appreciate this TV, especially for the price.
Color Now, let’s move on to grayscale and color accuracy. Grayscale is important because it tells us how accurate the color temperature of the TV will be. We want the TV to represent a D65 white point because that’s what Hollywood has decided is most desirable, and thus it grades movies to look correct when a TV’s white point is at D65. Here, the Hisense U8K tested ridiculously well. Like, suspiciously well. Delta errors were under 1, which is as good as you could hope to get with a professional calibration. This led me to think maybe I have a golden sample on my hands — that’s a TV which has been handpicked to be the best example of the technology and, thus, not necessarily a perfect representation of what you’d get from a TV you pick up at the store.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends But as I tested color accuracy, I backed off the idea that this may be a so-called golden sample. Or that, if it is a golden sample, there is an issue that I noted in my previous review unit that is carrying over just a bit with this TV.
If you saw my first U8K video , you’ll know that one of the issues that had me thinking the TV might be faulty in some way was that the blue, cyan, and to a lesser extent, green colors were coming up as far less accurate than the other colors in the test. The good news here is that the replacement TV tested much better. However, the blue and cyan still showed up as being much less accurate than all the other colors.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends I haven’t gotten to the bottom of why this is. I have a couple of guesses, though, and one of them was that perhaps the color temperature setting was just not warm enough. In the Filmmaker Mode (which, by the way, is doing just fine in terms of brightness on this unit — that was the other concern with the previous unit), the color temp setting by default on this set was Warm 1. I found that odd because I seem to remember Warm 2 being the more accurate of the two. So for grins, I switched to Warm 2 and retested the TV’s grayscale and color, and holy cow, the white balance on this TV was just way, way out of whack. I think it is super strange that Warm 1 would offer among the most accurate out-of-box readings I’ve ever seen, while Warm 2 would be so wildly bad. I guess that’s yet another thing to get to the bottom of and speak to in the TCL QM8 comparison I have planned.
Anyway, I saw some blue and cyan color errors from Filmmaker, Theater Day, and Theater Night picture presets — at least ones I can measure. But as I’ll discuss in a moment, I do not see this bear out when watching normal content. Nothing looks wrong when I’m just watching TV or movies. Furthermore, when I switch to HDR, the color checker results are all excellent so … big shrug emoji from me. But again, when watching HDR content, color looks fantastic.
Motion In terms of motion resolution, the U8K does pretty well. It doesn’t eliminate judder quite so smoothly as, say, a Sony TV of about the same price or more. It’s on par with a TCL, for example, but I do see better motion resolution from much more expensive Samsung and Sony TVs.
However, upscaling and, specifically, color gradient handling on this TV is impressive! I watched a lot of broadcast TV and some low-bit-depth streaming content, and while this TV doesn’t eliminate color banding entirely, it does a better job than some other TVs in its price class, including a certain TCL model. And that counts for a lot in my book, because between streaming content — especially on YouTube because of YouTube compression — and cable/satellite content, the Hisense U8K is going to make those compressed images just look better. And the larger the screen size, the more important that is going to be.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends One final thing to share — my input lag tester has gone kaput, so I’m sorry to report that I can’t offer you an input lag measurement in terms of milliseconds. But I haven’t been able to detect any meaningful input lag in Game mode, and so long as the U8K isn’t any worse than the U8H – and I don’t think it is – that number is probably somewhere in the 15-millisecond region for 4K 60Hz, and half that, about 7.5 milliseconds, for 4K 120Hz. I reckon it’s perhaps just slightly lower for 144Hz, which this TV does support if you intend to run a gaming PC on it, though I think most folks will want to game at 4K 60 or 4K 120, or engage variable refresh rate , which the TV also supports.
Black levels As for black levels and backlight performance: The Hisense U8K definitely is in the upper tiers here. It does much better than more expensive TVs from Sony, and a little better than some pricey TVs from Samsung in terms of preventing too much halo around bright objects on a dark background. It also avoids crushing black so you don’t lose shadow detail. There is only one other non-OLED TV I can think of that is significantly better in the black levels department in terms of backlight control, and that’s the TCL QM8 — which probably comes as no surprise because that TV is something of a unicorn in the backlight control department.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends The U8K’s off-angle performance will show some loss in color saturation, the black levels take a bit of a hit, and the backlight is more visible, although this is true of just about every TV that has a VA panel. But this is at extreme angles to the TV. So, if you’re in the seat on the far end of a sectional couch, sitting such that you can almost see the back of the TV, well, that’s not going to be the best seat in the house. But that is true of just about any LCD-based TV.
Speaking of panel types, I am currently trying to confirm whether a VA panel is used across all sizes of the U8K and will update this review once I have official confirmation. But for now, I think it is safe to say you will get very similar performance, no matter which size of this TV you buy.
Tone mapping I want to address one aspect of the U8K’s performance that is part of increasing coverage on the subject of tone mapping. For those unfamiliar with the concept, tone mapping has to do with how a TV maps the brightness spectrum, from black all the way to the brightest it can get, so that it can show all the details that are available in the source material. A scene on the Spears & Munsil UHD HDR Benchmark disc is super popular for determining how a TV does at maintaining detail in the brightest areas of a picture. If a TV clips the brightest areas, you won’t see trees in the background — you’ll just see a blob of white.
Most HDR content is mastered at 1,000 nits with very, very few exceptions, and the U8K represents that material exceptionally well.
Let me be clear here: The U8K’s tone mapping is spot-on for 99.3% of all the HDR source material you could throw at it. There are a handful of 4K Blu-rays that are mastered at 4,000 nits, and on those discs you may see that some super-bright highlight detail is lost — if you’re even the sort of person who picks up on that kind of thing. Most of you out there won’t. I’m not trying to insult you, I just mean that most folks wouldn’t know if something was missing or not because the opportunity to notice such things is very few and very far between.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends Most HDR content is mastered at 1,000 nits with very, very few exceptions, and the U8K represents that material exceptionally well. It also does just fine with anything mastered up to 4,000 nits. There is no HDR source material that is mastered higher than 4,000 nits that isn’t on a test disc, and there isn’t going to be any time before you replace this TV. So, to me, showing what a TV does with material mastered at above 4,000 nits is not helpful information. That’s just my hot take. I’ll get off my soapbox now.
Sound quality Arrested by the U8K’s picture quality, I forgot to address the TV’s speaker system and audio quality in my video review. I’m not making the same mistake here. Armed with a subwoofer embedded in its back panel, the U8K is able to offer some reasonably robust sound — for a TV speaker system, anyway. While it in no way compares to that of budget soundbars like the $200 Vizio M-Series , the U8K’s onboard sound system manages to deliver reasonable dialogue clarity and enough oomph to keep the TV from sounding like a tiny, cheap Bluetooth speaker. Kudos to Hisense for putting some effort into the U8K’s sound system, a dying art in today’s TV market.
No surprise here So, frankly, this TV review was pretty easy. The Hisense U8K performs as I expected it to, which is to say it is a marvelous TV, especially for its price. I don’t think there is a better price-to-performance ratio on the market right now. I could be proven wrong in time, but for now, this TV nails the price-to-performance ratio. Dollar per dollar, this U8K offers more than anything else for those who want the best picture they can get for their money. The only reason I’m not titling this review, “How is this even possible,” is because I already did that. The only reason I expected as much out of the U8K as I did is because I know what the U8H did, so I was prepared for it. And I was not disappointed.
If you have a U8H and are wondering if you should upgrade less than a year after getting your TV – I wouldn’t run out and replace your U8H. I think there are some refinements in the U8K here, but the U8H is still an awesome TV.
Short-list this TV. It is outstanding. And if you buy it, I’m pretty sure you’ll be thrilled with your decision.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other Hisense Product Reviews TV Reviews Audio / Video When it comes to streaming live TV in the U.S. (or streaming any kind of video anywhere, for that matter), resolution and bit rate remain as important as ever. And you're now able to enjoy YouTube TV in 4K. Some of it, at least. And if it seems like it's taken forever for that to happen, you're not wrong.
The basic fact is that it takes a lot of bandwidth to stream video — and that's even more difficult when you're talking linear TV, (and more so still if it's a live event like sports). So it's not really that much of a surprise to learn that most live channels stream at 720p resolution — or maybe 1080p if you're lucky. (We'll leave frame rate out of the equation for a minute, but it's a thing, too, especially for sports.) Audio / Video Hisense now makes the world's largest mini-LED backlit 4K TV: the 100-inch U8K TV. It announced the new TV at CEDIA Expo, the annual conference for AV professionals and installers, taking place in Denver, CO from September 7-9. The new TV might be the world's biggest, but its price is surprisingly accessible (at least, for a TV of this size) at $10,000. Hisense's TVs are often deeply discounted, sometimes as soon as they go on sale, so we expect this price to drop soon. It will be available from retailers like Best Buy and Amazon later this fall.
"Popularity and consumer interest in big screens continues to grow," said David Gold, President of Hisense USA, in a press release. "While our laser TV lineup can reach up to an impressive 300-inches, we also wanted to offer an option that showcases Hisense’s superior mini-LED experience, and there was no better choice than what’s proving to be our most award-winning TV to date: the U8K Series. We’re the only brand offering mini-LED at the 100-inch size, at this performance level, with this feature set, and a value package." Audio / Video Samsung has released a new 8K TV and it's the company's biggest Neo QLED so far. The 98-inch class Samsung QN990C Neo QLED 8K TV can be ordered starting September 6 from samsung.com for an eye-watering $40,000.
As you'd expect for this kind of investment, Samsung has thrown all of its best TV tech at this giant 8K screen. Its Neural Quantum Processor uses AI-based formulas to upscale any content to 8K. It uses a full array local dimming (FALD) mini-LED backlight system with quantum dots, which can deliver more than a billion colors and high contrast, with support for HDR10+. With a stated peak brightness of about 2,000 nits, the QN990C should have no trouble making HDR material look its best.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
