Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LG C1 OLED 4K HDR TV review: Still carries the torch By Caleb Denison Close $2,500.00 Excellent Contrast Perfect Black Levels Improved Processing Great For Gaming Impressive Sound Sluggish User Menus Confusing picture settings If you’re in the market for an OLED TV, you should be looking at the LG C1. LG’s C-Series OLEDs have been one of my top picks (if not the top pick) for our Best TVs list since the C6 was introduced about 5 years ago. LG’s C-Series has seen mostly incremental changes year over year, and this year is no different. However, the upgrades the C1 OLED received over last year’s CX OLED are meaningful, mostly in terms of processing, sound (yes, sound), and gaming.
Video review Design LG C1 OLED 4K HDR details User interface Under the hood A sound upgrade By the measurements General picture quality Inherent issues Gaming Our take Since I’ve already told you to seriously consider this TV, let me take the opportunity to explain why.
Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Historically, LG’s C-Series OLED TV s have had the same panel and processor as LG’s more expensive Gallery Series, or G-Series OLEDs, and better processing than its B-Series OLEDs. This year, with the introduction of the new, less expensive A-Series, the C1 still justifies its slightly more expensive price tag. Compared to the new G1 OLED , the C1 is now considerably less expensive since the G1 has gotten an upgraded, brighter panel, known as OLED evo. All of this to say: The C1 has always struck a sweet spot in LG’s OLED lineup — that sweet spot just got a little sweeter. Now, let’s dive into some details.
Video review Design The LG C1 OLED looks exactly like its predecessor, the CX: Striking. I’m still amazed at just how thin the panel is. Mounted on the wall, the C1 appears very sleek and modern. On its stand, the TV looks equally smart with a brushed metal scoop adding both aesthetic and functional benefits. Bezels are virtually non-existent, giving the C1 an “all-picture-no-nonsense” appearance.
Previous Next 1 4 Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends This year, the TV’s remote did get a design change. Now slightly shorter in length and with a flattened backside, the new Magic Motion remote now feels better in the hand and — praise be — no longer wobbles when placed on a flat surface. There are few buttons, but still, far more than found on Samsung’s remotes or those accompanying Roku TVs.
One other significant improvement to the remote is that it is less likely that one would click the center scroll wheel and accidentally plunge into an app or menu unintentionally.
LG C1 OLED 4K HDR details While we reviewed the 65-inch OLED65C1PUB model, our review also applies to the other screen sizes available in the series.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 48-inch OLED48C1PUB $1,500 55-inch OLED55C1PUB $1,800 65-inch OLED65C1PUB $2,500 77-inch OLED77C1PUB $3,800 User interface As with all of LG’s 2021 OLED TVs, the C1 benefits from a redesigned WebOS smart TV interface. Instead of relying on a ribbon of apps lining the bottom of the screen as it has done in years past, LG’s custom smart TV platform now looks a lot more like Google TV than it does Samsung’s Tizen interface. It has large tiles for apps, plenty of suggested content (perhaps too much) and is easier to read thanks to its dark theme.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends On the menu side of things, where users will choose picture presets, make picture settings adjustments, sound settings adjustments, etc., WebOs offers explanations of what each setting does and how it will affect the experience. This is something we enjoy about Sony televisions as well.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends While the TV’s menu of settings is easier to understand, it is now a bit more sluggish. I’m not used to having to see a “loading” circle graphic as the TV brings up different options or the next branch of the menu tree. To be fair, this is something that is mostly only tolerated during the TV’s initial setup. Those who don’t go menu surfing often won’t find this too off-putting.
Under the hood The first of three core improvements to the 2021 LG C1 OLED is its processor: The Alpha 9 Gen 4. As in years prior, the visible improvements with this next iteration are slight, but not insignificant. I noticed smoother gradients (less color banding) and perhaps slightly better preservation of bright highlight detail, though, admittedly, that last part is difficult to measure — that’s a purely subjective observation.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends Most of the advantages of the new processor are tied to what LG refers to as AI picture and sound processing — AI Picture Pro, AI Brightness Settings, Auto Genre Detection, and AI Sound Pro. The first three have varied effects on picture quality, while the fourth is intended to improve sound.
To be honest, I didn’t find any of them to be necessary to get a great picture. Also, I’m not sure how much A.I. is really involved here. I understand the processing is detecting various picture elements and attempting to optimize the picture based on those elements — a dark scene in a Batman movie might benefit from a boost to black levels for better shadow detail in dark scenes while maintaining bright highlight detail in a suddenly bright scene, for instance. But generally, I feel the C1 did a great job producing a gorgeous picture without the extra layers of processing and other wizardry. Ultimately, I left all four of those settings turned off and, as I’ll soon reveal, I got great results.
A sound upgrade Dan Baker/Digital Trends I don’t know what LG did for the C1 OLED, but it sounds fantastic — quite a bit better than last year’s CX OLED, actually. Most of the discussion had about sound at a briefing I took with LG was around AI Sound Pro, which I ultimately turned off (it works well for adding virtual surround to movies but I didn’t like what it did to music and soundtracks). But whatever improvements were made to amplification, driver placement, or just general sound tuning have been very effective. This TV sounds great! I’d still recommend at least a soundbar with sub for an upgrade, though.
By the measurements If you aren’t a stickler for measurements and data, please feel free to skip forward, but I think my nit nerds out there (and I use that term affectionately) will appreciate the following.
A nit, for those of you just joining us here, is a term describing a measure of brightness and since there is a bit of a nit war going on — everyone wants to have a big nit number to hint at their superior HDR prowess — I figured I’d tell you what kind of results I got when measuring the LG C1 OLED.
I started with the TV’s ISF Bright picture preset, calibrated the two-point white balance which had me pulling out a bit of red, and in standard dynamic range (SDR), the TV clocked in 195 nits with OLED pixel brightness to the default setting of 80 and peak brightness off. When I turned up the OLED pixel brightness to 100, I measured 233 nits, and when I then set the peak brightness setting to High, I got 335 nits.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends Depending on how bright you want your TV to be in SDR for everyday content watching, the C1 should be able to compete with a moderate amount of ambient light in the room.
In HDR , I found I had to correct the white balance a bit more, but once that was done, I got 750 nits steady in up to a 25% window, which is solid. Not as bright as the new and improved LG G1 or Sony A90J OLED TVs, but what I expected based on what I got from last year’s CX OLED — no changes.
Color measurements were also very good, as they always are, and that bears out in the picture quality, which, let’s just get right to it, is superb.
General picture quality Previous Next 1 2 Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends I somehow forget just how much I like this series of OLED from LG. It gets me every time. If you want to see just how great the C1 can look — well, I have a broad list of suggested 4K Blu-rays I would recommend — but for something accessible to nearly everyone: Check out Our Planet on Netflix in 4K Dolby Vision (requires premium subscription tier). It is gorgeously shot and mastered and looks excellent in Dolby Vision.
 It’s a feast of beauty for your eyes.
Top to bottom, the images just look superb.
This TV gets just about everything right. It’s bright enough to do HDR justice, it has perfect blacks — which, I can not stress enough, have a huge impact on the overall image — and the color is deep and rich and vibrant. It doesn’t really matter what you watch, the C1 OLED will make it look its best, and it can and do it at a more accessible price than most other OLED TVs.
Previous Next 1 2 Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends The upscaling is good — though not a miracle worker as we’ve discussed before — the HDR tone mapping is also excellent. Top to bottom, the images just look outstanding.
Now, we do have to talk about a couple of issues you might run into around motion and shadow detail.
Inherent issues While incredible technology, OLED TVs have some inherent issues, and incredibly enough, they are tied to areas where the TV excels.
For instance, OLED TVs have an instant response time of under one millisecond. That’s less than one millisecond for an OLED pixel to turn on or off, or switch colors. That’s great for reducing motion blur and a real boon to gamers in most cases. Unfortunately, if you pair that instant response time with low frame rate content — say 24 frames per second or 30 fps — you run into an issue called “stutter.” Dan Baker/Digital Trends That’s stutter, not judder — this TV does fine with playing back 24 frames per second content from a cadence standpoint. The stutter issue has to do with how long a TV has to hold an image before it displays the next frame. Another way of looking at it is, what kind of gap is there between the TV’s response time and the next frame that comes along from the content.
The effect comes off as sort of a flashing that draws your attention to it and away from the object of focus. You definitely tend to notice it. This is where a tradeoff comes into play: You can either put up with the stutter, or you can use motion smoothing to cancel it out, which will bring on “ soap opera effect.
” From what I understand, many of you reading this don’t mind soap opera effect, so whether this is a downside for you comes down to your personal preferences. If you don’t mind soap opera effect, turn on motion smoothing and you’re golden. If you are a cinematic purist, turn it off and put up with the stutter — because your C1 OLED is otherwise awesome.
The next issue to discuss is shadow detail. Another way of referring to it could be the term “crushed blacks,” which I tend not to use because it feels misleading since it is actually very dark grey that is getting crushed, and even then it isn’t getting crushed, it’s just not showing up. But I digress.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends The issue is that parts of the image that should be darker grey tend to display as black on an OLED because OLED materials don’t like to light up at extremely low voltages. Fortunately, LG has a compensation for that which you can manipulate so that you get better shadow detail at the expense of raised blacks, or better black levels at the expense of shadow detail. This can be an issue with extremely dark movies — Prometheus and the opening sequences in Captain Marvel come to mind — but it probably impacts gamers the most. More on that in a moment.
The final concern to address is the potential for screen burn-in. As I have written countless times (sorry, some things just get old after a while, but I know this is very important stuff) OLED screens are based on organic materials that dim as they age. If you overuse any particular color or color pattern for an extended period of time, eventually that area of the screen will dim disproportionally and appear to be “stuck” in the screen. A good example of this would be a station identification “bug” in the lower right corner of a sports/news network, or the ticker that runs along the bottom of the screen showing stock prices or game score updates.
The fact is, screen burn-in is not going to be an issue for most viewers. However, if you are the sort of person who watches the same channel for, say, six or more hours a day, five or more days a week, I would suggest you consider a non-OLED TV — perhaps the excellent Samsung QN90A Neo QLED , perhaps? Gaming Previous Next 1 4 Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends Dan Baker/Digital Trends I think I can be pretty succinct here. The C1 is fantastic for most gaming scenarios. Only LG is arming a good number of its TVs with four HDMI 2.1 inputs, so for that reason alone, it is one of the most versatile TVs for gaming. You also get FreeSync and G-Sync compatibility — I don’t believe any other brand is supporting both yet. The HDR images are fantastic, and the input lag is very low.
With LG’s Game Optimizer dashboard “boosting” the input lag reduction, input lag comes in below 10ms. Also, the Game Optimizer dashboard is a great place to make adjustments to black levels for better shadow detail, and there are even presets for different game genres that work pretty well. That’s just a really comprehensive suite of gamer-friendly features, so it’s impossible for me not to call this one of the best TVs for gaming.
Our take Dan Baker/Digital Trends With its beautiful design, excellent picture quality, gaming prowess, and minor improvements over last year’s model, the LG C1 OLED carries the torch as the best OLED TV choice on the market.
Is there a better alternative? For a brighter OLED TV, the LG G1 is a solid choice. I also expect the Sony A80J to be a solid contender in roughly the same price bracket (although more expensive). For a non-OLED option, the aforementioned Samsung QN90A is also an excellent alternative.
How long will it last? Given its advanced feature set, the LG C1 OLED should last well into the future. It’s unclear now whether LG’s brighter and slightly more accurate OLED evo panel will trickle down to the C-Series, so I wouldn’t wait around for that to happen. This is a good year to buy.
Warranty LG provides a one-year limited warranty on the C1 Series OLED provided it was purchased at an authorized LG retailer.
Should you buy it? Yes, if an OLED TV is right for you and intense brightness for bright-room viewing is not required, the LG C1 OLED offers the best price-to-performance ratio in OLED TVs right now.
Editors' Recommendations Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 The best OLED TVs for 2023: from LG, Sony, and Samsung Sony’s A75L is its most affordable 4K OLED TV so far LG Product Reviews TV Reviews Audio / Video It's been a very quiet year for Vizio so far. The company didn't bring any new TVs to CES 2023, and the welcome announcement that it was updating its aging smart TV software was tempered by the fact that Vizio wouldn't say when its customers would be getting the new experience, simply called Vizio Home Screen.
Our own editor-at-large and resident TV expert, Caleb Denison, penned an op-ed in July outlining his concerns about Vizio's apparent retreat to the TV sidelines and what the company would need to do in order to compete with the onslaught of excellent TVs from TCL and Hisense.
Audio / Video When it comes to streaming live TV in the U.S. (or streaming any kind of video anywhere, for that matter), resolution and bit rate remain as important as ever. And you're now able to enjoy YouTube TV in 4K. Some of it, at least. And if it seems like it's taken forever for that to happen, you're not wrong.
The basic fact is that it takes a lot of bandwidth to stream video — and that's even more difficult when you're talking linear TV, (and more so still if it's a live event like sports). So it's not really that much of a surprise to learn that most live channels stream at 720p resolution — or maybe 1080p if you're lucky. (We'll leave frame rate out of the equation for a minute, but it's a thing, too, especially for sports.) Audio / Video TCL has unveiled yet another 98-inch 4K TV: the S Class S5 (98S550G), which can be preordered starting August 24 for $5,000. As part of TCL's partnership with the NFL, the company is also offering football fans $200 off NFL Sunday Ticket from YouTube and YouTube TV if you buy the TV before September 19, 2023.
The Google TV-powered 98-inch S5 joins TCL's $5,000 98-inch Class XL 4K QLED TV (98R754) and the company's $12,000 98-inch Q Class mini-LED 4K TV (98QM850G) as the three biggest TCL TVs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
