Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News LG says its G3 OLED evo TV will be 70% brighter, with no visible wall gap By Simon Cohen Close Ahead of its official CES 2023 presentation, LG has given us a taste of its TV tech for the coming year, especially as it relates to the company’s lineup of OLED TV s. Once again, the G Series takes center stage, with the G3 OLED evo 4K. LG says that thanks to its Brightness Booster Max technology, the 55-, 65-, and 77-inch G3 models will see an increase in brightness by up to 70%.
The G3 OLED evo will also look a lot better when wall-mounted. LG calls its new One Wall Design approach “ultra-seamless” and says that it will leave no visible gap between the wall and the G3. That’s saying a lot considering the G2 OLED evo was already impressively tight to the wall when wall-mounted.
The G3 isn’t the only LG OLED getting some love in 2023. The company is introducing its C3 OLED evo 4K TV, as well as the Z3 OLED evo 8K TV, marking the first time that LG’s 8K-capable OLED TV will be equipped with its OLED evo panel.
LG / LG Electronics These models don’t get the G3’s Brightness Booster Max tech, but they do share one of the G3’s other improvements, the 6th-gen a9 AI processor. This is the chip that powers features like AI Picture Pro, which LG says has better upscaling, enhanced dynamic tone mapping, and more lifelike HDR quality by identifying and refining objects like people’s faces.
LG releases 2023 OLED TV prices: evo G3 starts at $2,500, preorders start March 6 TCL says its QD-OLED TV teaser from CES 2023 was an error LG’s giant 97-inch M3 OLED TV eliminates HDMI cables It also powers AI Sound Pro, which can now deliver a virtualized 9.1.2 surround sound experience from the TV’s built-in speakers.
Speaking of speakers, the 2023 LG OLED TVs are designed to work with the company’s recently announced 2023 soundbars , the SC9 and SE6. Both models will enable LG’s new Wow Orchestra feature, which lets the TV send sound through its own speakers as well as the soundbar for a much more realistic performance. The new soundbars can also be linked wirelessly to the 2023 TVs, giving you a cable-free option if you don’t need to send a video signal from the soundbar to the TV.
LG On a slightly deeper technical note, LG’s 2023 OLED TVs will also support HDMI 2.1a.
 That’s the very latest HDMI specification and it enables a new feature known as Quick Media Switching (QMS) — sometimes referred to as QMS-VRR. Regardless of what you call it, its benefits are going to be appreciated by anyone who switches between different media types with different frame rates.
You may not even know that you’re doing it, but if you’ve ever encountered a second or two of black screen after pressing play on a YouTube video, you’ve fallen victim to your TV’s inability to quickly and invisibly switch between two different frame rates. QMS-VRR solves this problem by taking advantage of a TV’s variable refresh rate (the “VRR” in QMS-VRR) — a feature normally only used when gaming — to quickly adapt from one frame rate to another, theoretically killing the black screen problem. QMS-VRR will work when using an external device (like an Apple TV 4K) that is also equipped with QMS-VRR.
Finally, LG is giving its webOS smart TV software another upgrade in 2023. A new home screen layout uses “Quick Cards” — small panels that group content and services by logical categories like Home Office, Gaming, Music, and Sports. The interface also gets more advanced personalization features powered by AI Concierge: each family member gets their own profile and curated lists of content choices and recommendations based on viewing history, search queries, and viewing habits.
At the moment, LG is still being coy when it comes to things like pricing, availability, and even screen sizes for its 2023 OLED TV lineup, but as soon as we find out, we’ll let you know.
Editors' Recommendations LG’s $100 webcam lets its newest TVs do video calls and more LG brings Apple TV, Apple Music, and AirPlay to webOS Hub-based TVs What is a Micro Lens Array, and how does it make OLED TVs brighter? LG’s 42-inch LX3 OLED TV can bend when you want it to LG Display uses exotic deuterium to make OLED TVs 30% brighter CES 2023 LG Tech News TV Audio / Video Over the last 24 hours, reports emerged that Samsung appeared to be doing the unthinkable: Arranging to buy millions of large-size OLED panels from LG Display. Historically, Samsung has gone to great lengths to present LG's OLED TVs as inferior to its own QLED TVs, which puts the idea of a massive OLED purchase totally at odds with Samsung's claims.
And yet, several sources including Korean sites MTN and ETnews are saying that the two TV giants are about to sign a deal that will see one million panels supplied to Samsung in the second half of this year and another four million panels in 2022.
Audio / Video LG Display introduces world’s first 48-inch Bendable Cinematic Sound OLED display LG Dedicated gaming monitors and full-size TVs have been on a collision course for years. Gaming monitors have been getting bigger, with more TV-like features, and TVs, specifically OLED TVs, have been incorporating many of the technologies that gamers demand. But at CES 2021, these two worlds have completely collided in one awesome new display from LG Display. It's one of the most exciting new TVs at CES this year.
Audio / Video One of the best parts of CES is getting a chance to hear from the companies behind the products we buy. A case in point is LG. Technically speaking, even though we buy LG OLED TVs from LG Electronics (LGE), the OLED panels inside those TV are engineered and manufactured by LG Display (LGD), a close, but separate division within the massive LG mothership. And LG Display is using CES 2021 to introduce a dizzying array of OLED innovations, from tiny, 20-inch TVs, to transparent panels that sit at the foot of your bed, to gaming displays that bend at the touch of a button.
Here's why 2021 is going to be the biggest OLED year so far ...
From small to super-sized Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
