Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LG M3 Wireless OLED TV review: zero wires, zero problems By Caleb Denison Close $5,000.00 Gorgeous OLED picture quality Low-latency wireless for gaming Solid wireless signal connection Easy setup Good sound Wireless box needs true line of sight When I first saw the LG M3 Wireless OLED TV at CES 2023, I thought it was a pretty clever idea: A gorgeous OLED TV that can hang on the wall with no worries of running wires to it? Sounds like a winner! Wireless connectivity tests Picture quality and latency But the funny thing about CES is that the excitement and energy that flows through that massive tech show tends to make you forget that sometimes the products we see there never see the light of day outside the show. Fortunately, LG has a history of bringing the products it shows off at trade shows to market. The LG M3 wireless OLED TV is no exception — you can buy it right now.
LG’s new M-Series Wireless OLED TVs start at $5,000 LG releases 2023 OLED TV prices: evo G3 starts at $2,500, preorders start March 6 LG says its G3 OLED evo TV will be 70% brighter, with no visible wall gap As I prepared myself for this review, I was concerned there might not be a lot to say about the LG M3. But reviewing the M3 turned out to be a lot more fun than I expected! I came away with some helpful information on how the wireless system works , as well as the final word on picture quality with this setup. All of the panel-related internals of this TV are otherwise identical to the LG G3 OLED , which you can read about in my full review from earlier this year.
Let’s talk first about how the wireless feature works. That is, after all, what we’re really here for.
Wireless connectivity tests In short, it works pretty well. We launched straight into a torture test to figure out what the range and line-of-sight claims LG makes look like in real life. As a reminder, LG claims up to 30 feet on line of sight. And whenever you claim a range like that, you expect some variables.
Distance and line of sight In order to test both the distance and line-of-sight reliance, I took the included Zero Connect box upstairs to the loft of our studio, and that got me about 25 feet of distance from the TV. I used the on-screen signal checker to track the signal strength and get tips on how to improve it, if needed. But there’s also an LED indicator on the top of the Zero Connect box that tells me the same thing. Blue is awesome, green is good, yellow is getting into dicey territory, and red is a no-go.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends So long as the Zero Connect box had line of sight, and by that, I mean the box could “see” this little receiver section on the bottom of the display, that light stayed blue. That is, unless, I went out of my way to try to interrupt it. If I put my hand over this receiver on the display, I could get the signal to drop a bit — which looked like dropped frames on the TV. But, when just walking around the rooms both upstairs and down, the signal stayed solid and I saw no alteration to the picture whatsoever. If, however, I dropped the Zero Connect down behind the little knee wall, then we could see some initial interruptions. You can see the LED on the Zero connect box going yellow at first, then eventually green — and at times it was full-on Blue as well.
Take some time to work out the best signal strength.
That is what happened initially. However, as the Zero Connect box remained in that location behind the knee wall for a while, what I noticed was that the connection became more stable. Now, this is just a theory, but it seemed that like a lot of wireless devices, the Zero Connect box had done some wireless channel surfing, settled on the channel that worked best, and locked it in. Again, that’s just the story I’m telling myself based on the behavior I witnessed. But the fact is that the signal locked in stronger over time, which I like a great deal.
While the Zero Connect box was up in that location, slightly obscured by the knee wall, I adjusted its antenna by swiveling the dial and the lever on top of the box. But ultimately, the best results came from pointing this at the TV. I also tested different sources, including a 4K Sony Blu-ray disc player and our Xbox Series X console, and the source didn’t matter, as the resulting picture quality was the same.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Continuing with the Zero Connect Box placement tests, I brought the unit downstairs and placed it in the back of the room, with a clear line of sight to the TV, and the LED remained Blue the entire time. I was not able to interrupt the signal by walking around — again, I had to cover up the Zero Connect box, or the wireless receiver module on the display, to get it to trip up. This kind of deliberate move doesn’t seem like a real-world scenario to me, but if you make an effort, you can affect the wireless signal.
Media console Next, I moved the Zero Connect box into the media console and intentionally placed it under one of the shelves, so there were two layers of thick wood in between the box and the TV.
According to the signal strength meter, this was the most challenging placement. We’ve taken away line of sight, and the objects in the signal’s path are significant.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Before I discuss the results of this test, I want to talk about why I think this is a realistic scenario for some folks. Whether you wall mount this TV, or put it on a stand, you might want to put your gear in a console below the TV and have the luxury of not having to run any wires to the TV at all. Just provide power, and you’re good.
I like the idea of being able to put the equipment somewhere else entirely, especially if the location I choose is more suitable for using an over-the-air broadcast antenna where those signals come in best. But I think this is a more realistic scenario for most folks.
If you have an open cabinet, all the better. But even if your cabinet has doors like ours — though it is important to note the doors do have holes and perforations in the screen — you might do OK. Maybe.
While the light on the Zero Connect box remains yellow — which is code for “not ideal” or perhaps “tenuous” — I’ve had no problems with the TV’s picture performance over the past week or so. No dropped frames. No image interruptions at all.
There is one thing that I have to mention, though.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends On one day in the last six (I believe it was Day 3), I kept getting this “weak signal” message on the TV. The picture never dropped out and there were no audio issues at all — no sign of struggle whatsoever. But this message popped up maybe 15 times while I was trying to watch a show. Interestingly, this seems to have coincided with my moving the BDI console back toward the wall a bit.
And then, just as quickly as it started, the warning message stopped, and I’ve not seen it since. This is just a theory, but I suspect that it may have taken a while for the Zero Connect box to lock onto a stable wireless channel. Whatever actually happened, though, it’s been three days of frequent TV use without seeing that message again. And, of course, the TV has performed flawlessly as far as the picture and audio goes.
The M3 has performed admirably from a wireless signal perspective.
This just goes to show that the invisible wireless signals we use every day can be hard to understand. We know that they are not omnidirectional, and we also know that they aren’t always linear. Despite the notion of line of sight, it is very possible for a wireless signal to bounce off of a hard surface and land exactly where it needs to be. It’s still directional, we just change the trajectory a bit (and, yes, mess with the strength in the process).
All of this is to say that even though I’ve thoroughly tested this wireless technology, your mileage will vary. You may get away with tucking the Zero Connect box away in a place that isn’t recommended. But then again, you may not. You may be able to place the box outside of its 30-foot range with the right conditions. Or your conditions may require less than 30 feet. I can’t predict what might happen with your use case. But I can say that I’m pretty optimistic because in this space, with all the torture tests I gave it, the M3 has performed really admirably from a wireless signal perspective.
Picture quality and latency As for the picture quality and latency? I can’t tell any difference whatsoever between the M3’s wireless system and an HDMI cable connection. None. There’s no added compression or pixelization. Poor video source problems aren’t further exacerbated by the wireless connection. I don’t experience any perceivable lag with games, though admittedly I’m not a hardcore first-person shooter player. It’s important to note that the M3 had zero problems with 4K 120Hz gaming at all. It was smooth as silk. There was no alteration to motion resolution. Again, I might as well have had HDMI cables connected, but I didn’t, and I loved the sense of freedom that gave me.
Now, there are some restrictions involved here. If you want to use a soundbar other than one of LG’s own wireless soundbars, or an AV receiver , keep in mind that the ARC connection is on the Zero Connect box. There are exactly zero ports on the TV. So if you do want to use your own audio system, that means the Zero Connect box will need to be within an HDMI cable’s distance from those audio devices, which means you would need to house your equipment near the TV.
I can almost see you thinking: “LG should just add an HDMI input to the display itself.” Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Except, it really isn’t that simple. If LG did that, it would have to add a whole board that had not only the HDMI input but processing to go with it as well. That’s unless it doubled up on the transmission so that it went from the display to the Zero Connect box for processing, and then back to the display. Butt hat would add cost, complexity, and probably some liabilities as well and, frankly, that just doesn’t make a whole lot of sense. I think the better fix would be for the WiSA audio standard to become more accepted, and then your audio system could be wireless as well.
Otherwise, I think the M3 works great. What a cool TV! I’ve had so much fun with it. I love the M3 in practice, but even more, I love what it could mean for the future.
Editors' Recommendations Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more LG’s giant, wireless OLED TV gets a giant price LG’s giant 97-inch M3 OLED TV eliminates HDMI cables LG’s 42-inch LX3 OLED TV can bend when you want it to How to buy LG’s Star Wars ultra-limited-edition C2 OLED TV (and how much it costs) LG Product Reviews TV Reviews Audio / Video LG is producing a very limited Star Wars edition of its 65-inch C2 OLED Evo TV. Only 501 units will be sold in the U.S. and as yet, LG hasn't said how much these TVs -- which have a strong Darth Vader vibe -- will cost, or when they will be available to purchase, saying simply that, "the TV will be available via LG.com with specific availability announced at a later date," according to a press release. The announcement comes one day after the latest addition to the Star Wars franchise, Obi-Wan Kenobi made its debut on the Disney+ streaming service.
So while we don't know when these TVs will be sold, LG has released a few teaser images which we've included here. For those who want to see the Sith Lord's screen in the flesh, your first chance to do so will be at LG’s exhibit at the Star Wars Celebration, from May 26-29 at the Anaheim Convention Center.
Audio / Video CES 2022 might be right around the corner, but LG figured it would drop a little teaser in our laps as a taste of what's to come in January. The company released a few details about two of its latest lifestyle-oriented TV designs: An OLED TV with a motorized fabric cover and a battery-powered 27-inch screen that can roll around your home, going pretty much anywhere you need it to be. Here's what we know so far.
LG StanbyMe LG's quirky new StanbyMe TV looks like someone took an iMac G4 screen and mounted it to a rolling coat rack. And given its capabilities, that description isn't far from the truth. In fact, the StanbyMe is a fully portable smart TV with a built-in rechargeable battery and fully adjustable rolling stand. It has a custom interface that you can control with a remote or just by touching it. And it functions as a wireless external monitor for smartphones and laptops via screen mirroring.
Audio / Video It wasn't that long ago that OLED TV prices were so high, only those with a lot of disposable income could justify owning one. Now, with the official availability of LG's new 2021 A1 Series OLED TVs, you can buy one for as little as $1,300 for the entry-level 48-inch model.
Before today, there was a lot of speculation over how much LG would charge for its A1 Series, given that Vizio's OLED TVs (which use OLED panels from LG Display) are already very aggressively priced. But we now know that Vizio gets to retain its title of most affordable 55-inch OLED TV: Its 55-inch OLED model sells for $1,300 -- the same price as a 48-inch LG A1 Series, and $300 less than the 55-inch A1 Series model.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
