Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung QN90C Neo QLED TV review: what premium looks like By Caleb Denison Close $2,799.99 Class-leading HDR performance Excellent black levels, backlight control Outstanding color performance Powerful processing Premium design and build Frustrating Smart TV OS Lofty price Let’s not beat around the bush. You’re going to be paying a premium for the Samsung QN90C — Samsung set the MSRP at $2,800 for the 65-incher, though it is often on sale at around $2,100. The only questions left are what are you getting for that premium, and is it worth it? Shuffling the lineup Series and size details We asked for it Picture quality: you pay for what you get Actually, there is one more question: Doesn’t the QN90C look an awful lot like last year’s QN85B rather than a successor to the QN90B? It’s a fair question, but the answer is a little complicated.
Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other Samsung scales its Terrace outdoor TV to 85 inches with mini-LEDs On paper, the QN90C looks more like the 2022 QN85B than it does a straight replacement for last year’s QN90B.
 There are two things at play here. At the corporate level, Samsung restructured its TV lineup for 2023. But at the consumer level, the QN90C is Samsung’s response to what we asked for.
Yes, the TV enthusiast community asked for certain changes, and Samsung delivered them in the QN90C.
Shuffling the lineup First, let’s talk about the restructuring. Last year, the QN95B wasn’t destined for the North American market. The QN90B was supposed to be the 4K QLED flagship for this part of the world. But enough folks made enough noise that Samsung ended up bringing the QN95C to the U.S. and Canada, and it wound up being the top 4K QLED for 2022. So, in a way, the QN90B got knocked down a peg in the lineup.
This year, the QN95C was planned as the top 4K QLED for 2023.
 It’s got more dimming zones, a more elaborate speaker system, slightly higher peak brightness, and a few other little bells and whistles. That means that the QN90C here has to be a step down, and that means that it looks a little more like last year’s QN85B.
Series and size details While we reviewed the 65-inch (QN65QN90C) model, our review also applies to the 43-inch, 50-inch, 55-inch, 75-inch, and 85-inch models in the Samsung QN90C Series.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 43-inch QN43QN90C $1,200 50-inch QN50QN90C $1,600 55-inch QN55QN90C $2,000 65-inch QN65QN90C $2,800 75-inch QN75QN90C $3,200 85-inch QN85QN90C $4,800 We asked for it Samsung also made a few technological changes in response to our requests and/or complaints — again, “our and we” in this context refers to the TV enthusiast community made up of reviewers like me and vocal fans like you.
Notably, the QN90C doesn’t have the same antiglare technology that the QN90B had. While Samsung’s best antiglare technology is extremely effective at reducing reflections, it has the side effect of scattering ambient light in such a way that results in a sort of faded rainbow effect. Some folks complained about that.
Taking things a step further, that antiglare technology is tied into Samsung’s off-angle improvement technology, which is why you see Samsung marketing “antiglare with Ultra Viewing Angle.” So, Samsung dropped that technology on the QN90C, but it still wanted to have improved off-angle viewing. As such, Samsung is using what’s called an ADS LCD panel on this TV. ADS is similar to LG’s IPS , which is known for having inherently better off-angle viewing than the very common VA panel type. Historically, the problem with ADS and IPS has been that black levels weren’t as good. But with mini-LED backlighting tech, ADS and IPS panels can have excellent black levels and black uniformity while also offering great off-angle viewing.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends So, what we have here is a TV that doesn’t have the rainbow effect from Samsung’s antiglare tech, but still has good off-angle viewing and great black levels. Unfortunately, the antiglare the TV does have is not as effective, so reflections can be visible. Trade-offs, folks. TV design is and always has been about making trade-offs.
If you put the QN90C in filmmaker mode, it tracks the electro-optical transfer function very well.
Next on the “we asked for it” list is the QN90C’s slightly lower average picture level, or overall brightness. This TV still gets plenty bright. But you may recall that last yearmany reviewers complained that Samsung’s HDR TVs were over-brightening everything, abandoning the creator’s intent and, in tandem, accuracy.
Well, this year, if you put the QN90C in filmmaker mode, it tracks the the EOTF (electro-optical transfer function) very well. In other words, it makes an HDR picture that’s just bright as it is told to make it without adding anything. Now, you can get the TV to be brighter. You can start by picking the movie mode, you can make sure the HDR Tone mapping setting is set to active instead of static (that option alone is new and by our request, by the way), and you can engage settings like dynamic contrast, all in effort to over-brighten the picture if you want. But Samsung gave us what we asked for by letting us decide whether we got an exuberant, technically over-brightened picture, or one that complies with standards of accuracy.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends As for the slightly lower brightness specs over last year’s QN90B? Well, remember that the QN95C is now the top 4K QLED, so the ultimate brightness potential is reserved for that more expensive set.
All of that to say that while the QN90B last year was considered by many — including myself — to be the best alternative to OLED that you could buy in a 4K TV, that distinction now most likely lies with the QN95C. But that doesn’t mean the QN90C is any kind of slouch. Quite the contrary. It is an excellent TV. The question I think most folks would ask is whether it is better than its much less expensive competition.
Picture quality: you pay for what you get Well, I’ll just answer that question right now: Yes, in many key ways, the QN90C is a bit better than the TCL QM8 or Hisense U8K. Most notably, its upscaling and picture cleanup processing is better than either the TCL or Hisense TVs.
 When I watch low-resolution and low bit-depth content (note, it’s about bit depth, not just bit rate), Samsung does a better job of smoothing out color banding, pixelization, and posterization, all of which are fancy display nerd terms for stuff that makes for a dirty, fuzzy-looking picture. The QN90C has a very clean, crisp image when playing back less-than-awesome content from Sling TV , YouTube TV , or cable and satellite boxes. So, for everyday TV viewing, the Samsung QN90C here is a bit better than its cheaper competition.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends It’s also got better out-of-box color accuracy and color temperature when using the Movie mode or Filmmaker mode than its less expensive competition. And if you do want to have it calibrated to perfection, all the controls you need are here.
The QN90C, being a Samsung QLED TV, also has four full-bandwidth HDMI 2.1 ports that support 4K resolution all the way up to 144Hz, with just about every flavor of variable refresh rate ( VRR ) that you could want, and Samsung has a pretty handy gaming dashboard to further appeal to gamers.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Its Gaming picture preset leaves a little to be desired — I noticed that the backlight control system doesn’t seem to be as effective in Game mode as it is in the Movie or Filmmaker mode picture presets, and it tends to look over-brightened to me.
But, overall, the QN90C outperforms its competition in many key ways. It’s got a gorgeous picture, highly impactful HDR highlights with good highlight detail, great contrast, and the black levels are excellent, with no perceivable black crushing going on, so you keep all your lowlight details.
The TV peaks at about 2,000 nits for SDR and HDR , and it comes in just under 700 nits full-screen white, which is very bright.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Considering how bright it can get, blooming and halo are well controlled, You will see some blooming and halo when you have small, intensely bright objects on very dark backgrounds, especially off-angle, but the black letter bars stay black and you don’t see a massive bloom when you engage white subtitles over the letterbox bars the way you do on some TVs.
Really, my only complaint from a performance perspective is that the backlight system itself seems to be a little slow-moving. When using test patterns, the transition between backlight zones is a little sluggish, but, to be honest, this was rarely visible when watching normal movie and TV content. Mostly, I spotted it when playing games where you move extremely quickly, causing a bright patch amid darkness to move rapidly on-screen. In those cases, it’s apparent, but you’ll have to decide how often you think you’ll be doing that kind of thing with your TV.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends My only complaint from a non-picture performance perspective is around Tizen, which I could just do without — especially the auto-play video feature. That’s bad on the internet and it’s bad on your TV. And I still haven’t found a way to turn it off.
Moving forward, I’m going to dig into a direct comparison between the Samsung QN90C and the TCL QM8, and I’ll let you decide whether the Samsung earns its premium price, but I hope I have made it clear that you definitely do get a bit more from the Samsung. Whether you value those improvements enough to spend a lot more is up to you.
But when we get out of the weeds and take a 10,000-foot perspective, there’s no doubt the QN90C is a really excellent TV, and very much what I expected from Samsung. I was immensely impressed the first time I saw it, and I’m still very impressed. You don’t need to root around in the picture settings a bunch to get a great picture, just pick Movie or Filmmaker mode – whichever you like better, and enjoy.
This is the premium Samsung TV I think most folks should consider buying, and it is definitely a short-list TV for anyone who values premium picture quality.
Editors' Recommendations Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 Samsung’s biggest Neo QLED 8K TV comes with an equally huge price Walmart TV deals: 55-inch 4K TV for under $250 and more This Samsung S90C OLED TV news is literally huge Product Reviews Samsung TV Reviews Audio / Video In May, TCL stunned us with the price of its new Q Class QM8 98-inch TV. At a mere $10,000, it was far less than the cheapest comparable model from Samsung. Today, Samsung is answering that challenge with an impressively low-priced 98-inch model of its own: the , which will be available starting in July for $8,000.
Audio / Video What could be worth traveling 3,000 miles in a cramped airplane to New Jersey? The chance to go hands-on with not one, but three of Samsung's most hotly anticipated TVs for 2023.
I got up close and personal with the 65-inch QN95C Neo QLED, the 75-inch QN900C 8K Neo QLED, and the 77-inch S95C QD-OLED. I had Samsung representatives on hand to address questions as I had them, and I got the opportunity to make some comparisons among the TVs that I don't often get a chance to do so soon after the TVs have been announced.
Audio / Video I recently flew to New Jersey to go hands-on with Samsung’s top three 2023 TVs. I measured. I viewed. In the end, one of them floored me.
During my one-day visit, I was able to get hands-on with the 65-inch Samsung QN95C Neo QLED, a 75-inch Samsung QN900C 8K Neo QLED, and the much anticipated 77-inch Samsung S95C OLED — aka QD-OLED TV.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
