Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sony Bravia X93L mini-LED TV review: premium performance without the ‘Sony tax’ By Caleb Denison Close $2,200.00 Excellent motion resolution Stellar color accuracy Bright, punchy HDR performance Solid black levels Some backlight blooming/halo Poor off-angle performance I want to start my review with an admission of guilt. I am guilty of going into this review having prejudged this TV. To be fair, though, I feel like I had good reason.
Video review Series and size details Everything (not so) old is new again Brightness, color, and white balance Backlight control So, what’s new? The X93L looks exactly like last year’s X95K — which was Sony’s flagship mini-LED TV. Let’s set aside the confusion of the model number convention for just a moment and, for now, work off this idea that the X93L is just a rebadged TV from 2022 and that Sony has presented nothing new in terms of hardware with this TV. If that’s what you have rolling around in your head when considering this TV, it’s hard not to think that maybe you’re being cheated. It’s a new year, you want a new Sony TV — not last year’s Sony TV, right? Hisense just debuted the world’s largest mini-LED TV at 100 inches Hisense kicks off its U8K mini-LED TV availability with deep discounts TCL QM8 Mini-LED TV hands-on impressions: I’m shook Here’s the thing, though: We should not sleep on the X93L.
Video review Series and size details While we reviewed the 65-inch XR65X93L model, our review also applies to the 75-inch, and 85-inch models in the Sony BRAVIA XR X93L Series.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 65-inch XR65X93L $2,200 75-inch XR75X93L $3,000 85-inch XR85X93L $4,400 Everything (not so) old is new again So similar are the X93L and the X95K that I asked Sony point blank: Tell me how this is not an X95K with a new model number. And to Sony’s credit, it didn’t mince words. It mentioned three new software features, and it justifiably pointed to the fact that the X95K was and is an outstanding TV.
So, I carried on, unboxed the TV, and started evaluating it. After measuring the TV’s key picture quality attributes using Calman software and a calibrated Spectracal C6 colorimeter, I set about sitting down to just enjoy the X93L while revisiting The Matrix and a smattering of Marvel superhero movie clips. As I did, I thought, yeah, this is a gorgeous TV. It holds up today in terms of performance. In fact, I found myself wondering why the X95K didn’t stand out in my memory more after watching content on the X93.
That thought led me to make price comparisons to other 2023 models. And it was then that I realized that what the X93L here really has going for it is its lower price compared to what the X95K cost when it came out.
Yeah, the price. A Sony TV’s price is the difference-maker? I didn’t see that coming either. We spend so much time talking about the Sony tax, right? If we look at overall performance for the price, the Sony X93L is looking like a super-smart choice! The X93L is significantly less expensive than the X95K was when it first came out. The 65-inch X95K was $2,800 at launch. The 65-inch X93L is $2,200 at launch. That’s $600 lower! And the price difference as you move up in size only gets more significant.
Now, let’s look at the competition. The 65-inch Samsung QN90C, also a mini-LED backlit TV, is $300 more at $2,500. The LG QNED99 — which admittedly I haven’t seen since CES, but which left a great impression — is also $300 more at $2,500.
Now, granted, the Sony X93L only has two HDMI 2.1 inputs, whereas the Samsung and LG models have four, an aspect that may concern gamers with multiple latest-gen consoles and high-end gaming PCs.
 But if we look at overall performance for the price, the Sony X93L is looking like a super-smart choice.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends The X93L’s price comes in well under 2023 OLED TVs of the same size, and just under competing mini-LED sets from Samsung and LG.
Now, we could toss the TCL QM8 and Hisense U8K in the mix — both of which are seriously undercutting all of the competition. But there are trade-offs to be had with those models. For example: Neither the QM8 nor the U8K’s motion resolution is quite as good as the Sony X93L’s.
So, if you want a bright, punchy mini-LED TV with Sony’s outstanding motion, color resolution, and HDR tone mapping, the X93 is looking like a pretty awesome deal.
Brightness, color, and white balance I’m getting ahead of myself. I’m going to assume you know nothing about the X95K and dig into the measurements I got when testing the X93L in a little deep dive I like to call “Numbers for Nit Nerds.” Here’s the rundown: I tested the X93L at first with iMax Enhanced mode, but later in the Custom preset, which offered slightly better accuracy out of the box. The pre-calibrated SDR settings were pretty impressive. The two-point white balance had errors under a Delta E of 3, but two ticks off the blue gain and blue bias pretty much zeroed out the errors entirely. The SDR peak brightness came in around 350 nits, which is a little high for standard, but more in line with what most folks will need and want, so I think that’s a smart setting. Color was quite accurate, with Calman showing an average Delta E of 4.2, — keep in mind an error of three or lower is imperceivable to the human eye. Thus, I’d characterize the X93L in the great-to-excellent camp for out-of-box performance.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends HDR showed a peak brightness of 1,800 nits from a 10% window and just shy of 1,000 nits full field white. Color accuracy here was excellent, with an average delta E of 1.92, so no perceivable errors other than two oddball colors. The X93L produced 93% of the UHDA P3 color gamut and just over 73% of the BT.2020 color space.
In other words, exactly like the Sony X95K from last year.
Backlight control So, based on those measurement points, the X93L does look a lot like the X95K. What matters most to me, though, is how well this TV handles backlight control, and I don’t expect it to be any better or worse than last year’s X95K.
And, it isn’t. It’s about the same. The only way Sony can improve the backlight performance on this TV is to just add a bunch more mini-LED backlights and break them down into significantly more zones. And it has done that, with the X95L, a more expensive TV that’s Sony’s new flagship, and it is only available in an 85-inch model. So, if you want the ultimate in mini-LED backlight performance from Sony, it comes in the X95L.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends For the X93L’s part, Sony has opted not to add a bunch of cost, but rather bring the price down on this TV. I suspect that Sony believes that 9.6 out of 10 customers will be thrilled with this TV’s backlight performance and that the folks — video enthusiasts like many of us — who want better will either spend the money on an OLED or go for the X95L.
Frankly, that seems like a smart business decision. It is likely to get more Sony TVs into more homes. But what you’ll get from this TV is excellent HDR highlights at the cost of a modicum of blooming. In darker scenes that have bright highlights, you can spot some blooming or halo effect around the bright objects in areas that should be dark. An OLED TV-killer this is not. With the mini-LED backlight and zone count this TV has, Sony could favor black levels and reduced blooming at the expense of highlight intensity, but it judged — I think correctly — that the bright highlights would have a more impressive impact.
So, what’s new? With its stellar motion processing and low-resolution content upscaling, excellent tone-mapping, and color accuracy, this is absolutely a premium TV with all the markings of a Sony. What’s new for this TV this year is an Eco Dashboard that makes it easy to manage eco settings, with an eco settings prompt in the setup phase that lets you disable it right off the bat for the best performance, and a new gaming dashboard that lets you turn VRR on and off, toggling between VRR and 60Hz or 120Hz, depending on the game.
There also is black-frame insertion available when VRR is off, if you want reduced motion blur. Local dimming is active in VRR mode, but you can’t have VRR and BFI at the same time — that just isn’t doable when you’re backlight blinking. There’s also a black level adjustment here so it’s easier to see in the dark scenes and a crosshair option that you can use if you don’t like your game’s crosshair. You can change the style and the color as well.
Another feature rolling out in a future firmware update is the ability to change the screen resolution (effectively reducing the size of the screen). So if you want to size down the screen and sit closer to the display, you can do that, but it will alter the resolution of the image. It’s sort of like going from 2x display apps on an iPad to a 1x app.
At this point, the question that’s left is how does the X93L compare to the Samsung QN90C? And, if the TCL QM8 and Hisense U8K offer even brighter highlights with less blooming — as I suspect they may — then what, if anything, must you give up by choosing those models over the X93L here? We’ll know more as I will be reviewing those very models next. But what I can say about the Sony X93L now is that it’s an excellent TV with premium performance, the likes of which you just won’t get from other TVs. Of that, there is no question. The question is, though, does the X93L offer you what you are looking for? If four HDMI inputs are what you need, then perhaps the X93L isn’t the right choice for you. But if you want a mini-LED TV that is absolutely gorgeous to watch — one that is bright, vivid, rich, and more accurately duplicates creators’ intent than just about any other mini-LED LCD TV on the market — then the X93L is an excellent choice.
Editors' Recommendations Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other Samsung scales its Terrace outdoor TV to 85 inches with mini-LEDs Hisense’s mini-LED U6K TV arrives, starting at $500 TCL’s 2023 mini-LED 4K TVs are shockingly affordable Sony releases its 2023 TV prices with one very big exception Product Reviews Sony TV Reviews Audio / Video Sony has finally announced the pricing on its 2022 lineup of Bravia TVs, including the A95K, which uses QD-OLED technology for its display. That TV starts at $3,000 for the 55-inch model, while the larger, 65-inch version has been priced at $4,000 -- exactly where we expected these models to land based on the Sony Rewards points that Sony had listed for each model on its website. Here are all the pricing and availability details for Sony's full range of 2022 Bravia 4K and 8K TVs: Bravia Master XR Series Z9K 8K Mini LED TV As Sony's 8K flagship, the Z9K has all of the bells and whistles. It's powered by Google TV, and supports HDMI 2.1, including eARC, variable refresh rate, auto low-latency mode, and 4K @ 120Hz. It comes with Sony's new Bravia Cam for video chats, gesture recognition, and smart features like auto-dimming the TV when no one is in the room.
Audio / Video In just a few years, Hisense has evolved from a relatively obscure brand to a company that makes an impressive range of affordable and feature-rich 8K, 4K, and laser TVs. At the end of 2021, the company finally debuted its first 8K TV, the U800GR, but at CES 2022, the company has revealed how the rest of its 4K products will benefit from new technologies like mini-LED backlighting, advanced gaming features, and Google TV, which replaces the older Android TV system on all of Hisense's non-Roku TV ULED models.
Here's the full run-down.
U9H Series Audio / Video For Sony's TV ambitions, 2022 is looking like a banner year. Not only has it become the first company to bring a QD-OLED TV to market (the Sony A95K), but it is also branching out into mini-LED backlighting for its non-OLED flagship models, the 8K resolution Z9K, and the X95K, a 4K model. And naturally, Sony believes its version of mini-LED is better than the competition, thanks to a new version of its XR Backlight Master Drive and improvements to its Cognitive Processor XR technology.
Better mini-LED? Why is Sony so confident that its min-LED TVs are better than TCL's mini-LED models, Samsung's Neo QLED TV, and LG's mini-LED QNED models? Apparently, none of these competitors are applying sufficient algorithmic control over their backlights, according to Sony, which results in less-than-ideal picture quality.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
