Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Alexa vs. Google Assistant vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform to choose? By Patrick Hearn Close The smart home world is dominated by three main options: Amazon , Google , and Apple.
 (Sorry, Bixby and Cortana, you aren’t part of this race.) Not all devices work across all platforms, and as more people invest in smart home technology and take advantage of sales, it can be hard to find a single platform that meets all of your needs.
Pros and cons Product support Ease of installation Investing in the right platform Amazon, Google, and Apple all have different strengths. Depending on your needs and what you want your smart home platform to do, you may prefer one platform over another. This guide will examine the pros and cons of each platform, their product support, the ease of installation, and other aspects worth considering.
Digital Trends Pros and cons All three platforms excel in some areas and struggle in others. Knowing what those strengths and weaknesses are can help you determine which platform is the right pick for you.
Google TV vs. Roku TV: which is the better streaming OS? The best HomeKit smart blinds of 2023 The best Apple HomeKit devices for 2023 Amazon Alexa Amazon’s Alexa is one of the most popular smart home platforms. According to many reports, Amazon dominates 53% of the smart home market.
 Amazon has consistently and aggressively expanded its grip over the market since the introduction of the Amazon Echo Dot, and the miniature device remains the bestselling smart speaker of all time.
One of the main strengths of Alexa is the Skill system.
 There are more than 100,000 Alexa Skills available that do everything from providing weather reports to suggesting recipes. The Skill System also makes it easy for users to create custom skills, too.
If you use the Amazon Echo Show, Alexa can display information in a visual format. This allows users to walk through recipes step-by-step, see your smart home status at a glance, and more. Alexa can also recognize individual voices and provide personalized results for each member of the family.
There are certain areas where Alexa isn’t always the best pick, however. It doesn’t understand complicated requests as well as Google Assistant does, and follow-up questions are more difficult to ask without saying “Alexa” before every request. There are also a limited number of activation phrases. You cannot customize the trigger word outside of a few preset options.
Alexa predictably plays into the Amazon ecosystem. You can stream Prime Video to the Echo Show, play Audible over the smart speakers, and even do all of your online shopping through Alexa. On the other hand, it sucks at YouTube — Alexa cannot play YouTube directly.
Google Assistant Google Assistant leads the pack behind Alexa in terms of popularity. The voice assistant is found not only in smart speakers, but also in phones. This gives it a reach that Alexa doesn’t have (although you can still use Alexa on your phone through the Alexa app), and brings in users that might not otherwise be exposed to Google Assistant.
Google is better able to answer questions and communicate in a way that feels more natural than Alexa. Users can ask follow-up questions in a format like, “Hey Google, when did Casablanca come out?” “Who was the lead?” Google will remember the context of the original question and provide the proper answer.
Like Alexa, Google can distinguish between individual users and provide personalized answers. This helps Google Assistant to make better music recommendations and provide more in-context answers. Google Assistant also displays information in an easy-to-read format when viewed through a Google Assistant-powered smart display — like the Nest Hub or Nest Hub Max.
Google Assistant has fewer privacy features than Amazon Alexa does, however. There has been controversy in the past about the way Google handled customer data.
Apple’s HomeKit HomeKit is the least-used of the three major platforms, due in part to the limited number of compatible devices. However, HomeKit is the most secure of the three major platforms. The same privacy features that Apple makes part of its phone ecosystem are included in HomeKit.
HomeKit also has the most attractive user interface of the three major platforms, boasting the same sense of style as other Apple products. HomeKit is also one of the easiest platforms to set up, but there are numerous downsides that make it lag behind the competition.
The primary way to connect a device to HomeKit is through a scannable code. These codes have to be kept safe if you remove and wish to re-add a device at a later date. HomeKit also requires a hub in the form of an Apple TV , a HomePod , or a compatible iPad that must be turned on and connected to the network in order to operate.
Setting devices up through HomeKit means you don’t have to download secondary apps. For example, smart security cameras often require a dedicated app to view the livestream and perform tasks, but compatible HomeKit cameras are set up and integrated through the Apple Home app. This means you can install, view, and control the camera from one location without cluttering your phone with unnecessary apps.
Product support Another important consideration is the number of third-party devices that a platform supports. The biggest names in the smart home field (Philips Hue, LIFX, etc.) work with all three of the major platforms, but there are smaller companies that support only one of the three.
When it comes to third-party support, Alexa has the widest reach. The platform works with more than 60,000 different devices.
 Google Home works with more than 30,000 , coming in behind Alexa in terms of third-party support. Modern smart home devices tend to work with both of the major platforms, however.
Apple HomeKit has the lowest level of third-party compatibility. While it works with most major brands, there are a huge number of products that cannot be controlled through HomeKit. Most HomeKit-compatible devices are designed specifically for the platform.
Ease of installation No one wants to spend hours fiddling with a complicated setup process. Thankfully, the vast majority of smart home devices are easy to set up, regardless of what platform they are on. Others require a bit more finesse.
Of the three platforms, Amazon Alexa is the most complicated when it comes to adding new devices, due in part to its interface. Even then, the setup process doesn’t take long and is simply a matter of going step-by-step through the menu.
Google Home is easier when it comes to adding devices.
 It detects when a compatible device is on the network and prompts the user to add the device. Once you tap the prompt, you may have to log into an account and follow the steps.
Apple HomeKit is both the easiest and hardest in terms of adding devices. The system of scanning codes makes setup a breeze, but if you lose the code (or the product doesn’t have a code), then it becomes a hassle to contact the company and have a new code issued for that specific device.
John Velasco/Digital Trends Investing in the right platform Ultimately, the right platform depends on the devices you already use or the devices you intend to use. Although there is more compatibility between all three platforms than ever before, there are still ecosystems to keep in mind. If you are a die-hard Apple fan, then HomeKit may be the best option. You can control your home via Siri, and HomeKit is already part of iOS.
On the other hand, if you prefer the Android operating system (or are a fan of Google devices in general), then Google Home may be the best pick for you. Google Home is also more streamlined and more catered toward entertainment. A Chromecast makes it possible to stream your favorite music and movies to the TV from your phone, and new additions to the Nest Hub Max allow you to stream directly to the smart display.
Alexa is the go-to pick for anyone that wants an expansive, integrated smart home. The huge range of compatible devices means you can use any compatible devices and link them together to create a cohesive, powerful smart home that does what you need it to. Alexa is also a great pick for users who like the Ring home security system, as Amazon owns both.
Want more news, reviews, guides, and features from Digital Trends? Follow us on Apple News , Google News , and Flipboard.
More on smart home platforms Google Nest Mini vs Amazon Echo Dot Alexa may be everywhere, but it’s Google’s Assistant I want in my home Google Assistant vs. Amazon Alexa Avoid saying these words near your smart speaker Editors' Recommendations Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? What is Apple HomeKit? GE Lighting launches Smart Hexagon Panels with support for Alexa and Google Home Aqara launches U100 smart lock with full Apple HomeKit support Best smart lights for Google Home Features Smart Home Smart assistants are an indispensable part of any smart home, making it easy to give hands-free commands and control a variety of gadgets. Google is looking to further streamline the performance of its smart assistant, with the expansion of chime alerts to cut down on how talkative your Google Nest gadgets are when responding to instructions.
For example, after asking Google to turn on a fan, you’ll now be able to hear a quick chime to confirm the assistant has heard your instructions. Previously, confirmation would come in the form of a short sentence, such as “OK, turning on your fan.” Smart Home Google has partnered with ADT to bring its lineup of smart home gadgets to a new DIY home security system -- ADT Self Setup. The unique package allows you to choose from a variety of Google devices to add to your home, all of which offer full support for the new ADT+ smartphone app.
The goal of the collaboration is to offer the customer service and security of ADT with the premium products developed by Google. The ADT Self Setup system can be modified to include the Nest Cam, Nest Thermostat, Nest Mini, Nest Hub Max, Nest Doorbell, and several first-party ADT products like the ADT Motion Sensor and ADT Smart Home Hub.
Smart Home Amazon and Google might dominate the smart home market, but that doesn’t mean they’re the only companies churning out high-end products in that category. Companies like Wyze, Arlo, and even Apple have shown time and again they’re capable of competing with the two well-known companies — and they’ve got plenty of highly rated products to prove it.
If you don’t want to pick up smart home products from Amazon or Google (or their subsidiaries), here are the best smart home products to buy.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
