Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: AirPods Pro vs AirPods 3 How to Update AirPods Check AirPods Battery Level Best AirPods How to Reset AirPods Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple AirPods Pro review: Best buds By Caleb Denison Close $249.99 Clear, engaging sound Excellent noise-canceling Comfortable Superior call quality Wireless charging case Questionable long-term battery life I can’t recall the last time an Apple product went from credible rumor to product-on-shelf in under three weeks, but that’s what happened with the new AirPods Pro.
Still iconic, only smaller Here’s a tip for ya Siri’s always listening Let it in or shut it out Clean, full, detailed Our Take When Apple confirmed their existence, their proper name, and their arrival date, many of us in the tech media were caught by surprise. Yet, here we are. You can now purchase the AirPods Pro — a new in-ear version of the wireless buds with active noise-canceling — for $250.
I wasn’t expecting much from the AirPods Pro other than the fact that they would almost certainly fly off the shelf. The standard Apple AirPods never impressed me, though I will admit I understand why tens of millions of people use them. AirPods are as much a communication tool as they are a way to listen to music and movies. But, much to my surprise, Apple has a legitimately excellent pair of buds here.
Still iconic, only smaller Apple hasn’t abandoned its golf-tee design for the AirPods Pro — the tee is just a bit shorter now. Rather than opt for a large disc or oval shape as we see with so many competing wireless buds, the AirPods Pro offer a more covert aesthetic than their non-pro counterparts. Love it or hate it, the design has become iconic, and even a sort of badge of honor for the Apple faithful.
The shorter stem raises my only real concern. Battery life. We know the battery isn’t replaceable, and though Apple does offer a “Battery Service” option for its AirPods, it amounts to a slight discount on a pair of brand-new buds.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That’s already a problem when the longevity of the super-small, noodle-shaped battery in the standard AirPods is limited to 2 to 3 years of charging cycles. With the AirPods Pro, I fear this issue may be exacerbated since the battery is necessarily smaller.
The Pro has similar battery performance to the standard AirPods, clocking in with roughly 4.5 to 5 hours of listening time and/or 3.5 hours of call time per charge, with over 24 hours of charging capacity coming from the included wireless charging case (the wireless charging case is an upgrade for the standard AirPods). The battery bar has since been raised, however, with options like Sony’s WF-SP800N offering nine hours with active noise cancellation on, and 13 hours of playback without ANC.
Here’s a tip for ya Aside from the shorter stem, the most obvious visual change to the AirPods playbook is the addition of a silicone eartip.
Rather than sit outside your ears and shout at them through the door, allowing plenty of other outside noise in, the AirPods Pro adopt an in-ear design which has them seal up the entrance to the ear canal and broadcast sound straight down the hallway to your eardrum. This seal is essential for blocking out noise and, as a bonus, delivers better bass response.
Dan Baker / Digital Trends The AirPods Pro come with three sets of silicone eartips — no Comply foam folks, sorry — but these are not ordinary eartips. Instead of (with difficulty) sliding onto a little nubbin, as so many other in-ear buds require, the AirPods Pro tips snap on with a satisfying click which is both easier to swap out, and just as secure as, the more conventional design.
Siri’s always listening As expected, Siri is on-deck for iOS users, constantly listening for voice commands like “call Mom,” “pause music,” “how do I get to the gym,” and my personal favorite, “what does the fox say?” It would be more appropriate to call these ‘grab controls,’ or perhaps ‘grip controls.’ If you want to control music playback, answer a call, or turn noise canceling on and off without speaking a word or pulling your phone out of your pocket, you can use touch controls built into each of the two earbud stems. It would be more appropriate to call these “grab controls,” or perhaps “grip controls,” since you must grasp and squeeze the stems.
If you’re an Android user and want to call up Google Assistant, you’ll want to head to the Google Play store and download one of the many apps designed to make the AirPods work on an Android phone as they do on an iPhone. If, instead, you’re looking for native Google Assistant support, the Google Pixel Buds 2 are worth looking into.
Let it in or shut it out As is now common with most active noise-canceling headphones, the AirPods Pro offer the option to either shut noise out or let it all in.
Apple calls the latter feature “Transparency Mode,” and its an apt title. As we found to be the case with the Beats Solo Pro, the sound piped in from the outside world is surprisingly natural — as close to just pulling the buds out as we’ve heard yet.
Digital Trends This will be great for keeping tabs on that bus that’s about to mow you down in an intersection. I do wish the feature was adjustable, as it is in the Amazon Echo Buds, where I can choose how much of the outside world to dial in.
More impressive than Apple’s transparency mode is how well its noise-canceling tech works. I was shocked, frankly. I’ve not been impressed with the Beats brand of noise canceling since Apple bought the company, so I didn’t expect much from the AirPods Pro, but Apple’s first go at active noise canceling is right up there with Sony and Bose.
In fact, when I first slid the second AirPod Pro into my ear (which is what activates noise canceling — it turns off when one bud is removed) I had the same unsettling whooshing sensation I experienced when I first put on the Bose QC 35II many years ago. The effect is immediately noticeable and very impressive.
I compared the AirPods Pro to the Sony WH-1000XM3 in every noisy environment available to me — the office, streets bustling with buses, on a light-rail train, and pretty much everywhere but on a plane — and found that the noise-canceling effect between the two was virtually indistinguishable. I have not yet had the chance to compare the AirPods Pro to the Bose Soundsport Free , but I anticipate a similar experience.
Also, a note about call quality. The Apple Airpods Pro beat the pants off of the Sony WH-1000XM3 for phone calls. Not only did they handle windy conditions better, but they all but eliminated background noise. I stood right next to a bus engine during a call, and it was almost inaudible. Bose will probably come out with a new product that leads the pack in call quality, but the AirPods Pro should hold up very well for most users.
Clean, full, detailed Just as I was taken aback at how great the AirPods Pro did noise canceling, I am equally impressed with sound quality. Sure, I’ll take the sonic profile of the Sony WF-1000XM3 or the Sennheiser Momentum True Wireless 2 in a head-to-head comparison, but the fact that the AirPods Pro are even in the same league is, again, something of a shock.
Hats off, Apple. You done good.
I don’t consider the AirPods Pro demographic to be the most discerning audiophiles, so I think most owners will find the sound quality impressive. Buyers will be more than satisfied. But the fact that the AirPods Pro can resolve fine detail, have full, rounded bass that is as tuneful as it is punchy, clear mids, and palpable transient response to go with some zesty treble, is remarkable considering Apple’s lackluster history in the sound quality department.
Hats off, Apple. You done good.
Our Take Apple’s Airpods Pro don’t have to be great for people to buy them. Their simple interface assures iPhone owners will treat them as the default. So, the fact they are great is all the more remarkable. Even Android owners may want to give them a look.
Is there a better alternative? The aforementioned Sony WH-1000XM3 will offer slightly superior sound quality at the sacrifice of call quality and compact form factor. The Amazon Echo Buds are much less expensive, but they don’t sound as nice and aren’t as effective at noise canceling.
How long will it last? Based on reports of original AirPods petering out after 2 -3 years, I’m going to guess the AirPods Pro are destined to experience battery failure in roughly the same time frame.
Warranty The AirPods Pro come with a one-year limited warranty against manufacturer defect only — this does not cover any damage. Add AppleCare+ for $29 and you’ll get much better protection for up to two years.
Should you buy it? Yes. These are a great set of compact, comfortable, and remarkably effective true wireless earbuds.
Editors' Recommendations New AirPods teased for 2024, to little surprise Best Prime Day AirPods deals: Save on AirPods Pro, AirPods Max Best Beats headphone deals: Save on Studio Pro, Studio Buds Best AirPods Max deals: Get the noise-canceling headphones for $384 Best refurbished AirPods deals: Save on Pro and Max Mobile AirPods Amazon Apple Headphone Reviews Product Reviews Audio / Video There's been a bit of a to-do over USB-C and charging rates and data speeds when it comes to the iPhone 15 and its switch away from using Apple's proprietary Lightning cable. The same goes for the AirPods Pro, which also are getting a refresh to USB-C.
While there are some very real considerations to make note of when it comes to USB-C cables and iPhones — faster is (mostly) better when it comes to charging and transferring data — I couldn't care less about either of those things when it comes to my AirPods Pro.
Audio / Video Amid the slew of new Apple products launched today, only the tiniest mention was made of the fact that Apple has also given the AirPods Pro Gen 2 wireless earbuds a not-so-minor refresh. Along with the expected addition of USB-C, making the AirPods Pro the first Apple headphones to ditch the Lightning connector, Apple has also given the iconic white noise-canceling earbuds the ability to do lossless audio wirelessly -- something that has never been seen on the AirPods family before, and is even a rarity among non-Apple wireless audio devices.
There is, however, a catch. The "groundbreaking wireless audio protocol" that allows for lossless audio at 20-bit/48 kHz (a better-than-CD-quality resolution) is powered by the AirPods Pro's H2 chip, but for now, it only works when paired with the upcoming Apple Vision Pro headset. At the moment, Qualcomm's aptX Lossless Bluetooth codec (when used with compatible wireless headphones and smartphones) is the only technology that supports lossless audio wirelessly, and even that technology is limited to 16-bit/48kHz.
Audio / Video In one of the least-kept surprises of today's iPhone 15 event, Apple announced that the second-generation AirPods Pro are switching to USB-C for their charging case.
That's a big deal because they'll now use the same charger as the iPad and MacBook — and also because they can use any other USB-C cable that you've got laying around. And because we're not talking about a device with a huge battery capacity, you don't need to worry so much about whether you have the right USB-C cable. Things should charge just fine, and fast enough, given that the battery case only sports a 523 mAh battery.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
