Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Audio-Technica’s $2,700 wooden wireless headphones do something no other headphones can do By Simon Cohen Close Audio-Technica (A-T) has been doing some wild things in honor of its 60th anniversary, like creating a $9,000 phono cartridge , and bringing back its quirky Sound Burger portable record player from the 80s. But those are just fun frivolities. The really impressive birthday gift that this 60-year-old is sharing with the world is the ATH-WB2022 , a set of wooden, wireless headphones that claim to be the very first to have built-in balanced stereo.
Audio-Technica I know, you may be scratching your head, wondering how this feature can possibly justify an insane $2,700 price tag, but audiophiles are going to be salivating right about now.
In the world of audio nirvana, purists seek out “balanced” headphones.
 These are cans that have a totally separate signal path to each earcup. When combined with a similarly balanced headphone amp (or DAC/amp dongle ) output, the headphones can deliver an unfettered audio experience, free of any hint of interference or crosstalk from one channel to the other.
Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity $2,199 Hed Unity Wi-Fi headphones are the first to offer lossless hi-res audio Can we talk about wireless audio’s missing speedometer? These balanced setups have been standard in the wired audiophile world for decades, but there has never been an equivalent in the wireless world, where incoming digital stereo signals are usually processed by the same integrated amp and digital-to-analog converter (DAC).
Audio-Technica That changes with the ATH-WB2022. Audio-Technica says it has not only given these luxurious cans a twin set of DACs (one for each channel), but also a twin set of amplifiers, and — should you be concerned about the effects of a combined power supply — a twin set of rechargeable batteries, too, for the ultimate in separation.
Because all of this dedication to balanced audio would be pointless without some decent drivers to actually turn these signals into sound, each earcup has also been fitted with a specially designed 45mm driver, with a high-performance magnetic circuit and a diamond-like carbon (DLC) coated diaphragm.
Audio-Technica says the WB2022’s exotic housings, made from a combination of solid flame maple, walnut, and mahogany woods, have excellent acoustic properties and absorb vibrations for a purer audio performance. That might be something you can hear (or not) but there’s no denying they give these limited-edition headphones a stunningly unique look, matched only, perhaps, by the company’s other 60th-anniversary headphones , the hand-painted, wired ATH-W2022.
To complete the picture, both the headband and ear cushions are wrapped in Alcantara, a synthetic material that is comfy, breathable, and better for the environment than leather.
Audio-Technica You might think that for $2,700, something like active noise cancellation (ANC) would be included, but apparently, Audio-Technica is taking the purist ideology to the max on these cans and hasn’t included it. What you do get is Sony’s hi-res audio-capable LDAC Bluetooth codec , for up to 24-bit/96kHz audio (in addition to the usual SBC and AAC codecs).
Like many of the very high-end wireless headphones we’ve been seeing of late, like the Master & Dynamic MW75 and the Bowers & Wilkins Px8 , the ATH-WB2022 can take a digital audio feed directly through their USB-C port (which is also used for charging). But unlike those other cans, A-T does not include any kind of analog-to-digital cables like a 3.5mm-to-USB-C.
That means these cans are 100% digital-only. So while audiophiles may be keen to try the first truly balanced set of wireless headphones , they may be less enthusiastic that they can drive these cans with their preferred headphone amp.
A-T claims the twin batteries will deliver a nine-hour playtime, which is extremely short for a set of wireless headphones — especially ones that don’t have ANC — which typically offer at least 20 hours of use and often much more.
Still, at least you won’t have to worry about the batteries’ long-term lifespan — A-T is promising free battery replacements (and for the Alcantara padding), though it hasn’t indicated how long that replacement promise will last.
Editors' Recommendations Astell&Kern’s new headphone DAC is PlayStation-ready Bluetooth bandwidth set to double, opening a path for video and lossless audio The first wireless hi-res headphones with UWB will arrive in 2024 Apple AirPlay 2 supports 24-bit lossless audio, but you can’t use it NAD’s CS1 adds wireless streaming music to any audio system Headphones Tech News Audio / Video Audio-Technica showed live streamers and content creators that it's been thinking about them at CES 2023, today unveiling StreamSet, two new models of wired streaming headsets based on the iconic M50x professional monitor headphones that come with the added bonus of a built-in condenser microphone.
Dubbed by Audio-Technica as the "world's first streaming headsets," two models are available, and unlike the M50x, they're both hard-wired. The analog ATH-M50xSTS comes with a two-meter cable with a 3.5mm headphone input (and a 1/4-inch adapter, too), plus a 3-pin XLR for connecting the mic to a mixer or compatible audio interface. The digital ATH-M50xSTS-USB, as its name implies, has a USB-A cable (also two-meters in length) with a USB-C adapter for direct connectivity to computers. The STS-USB model has a built-in digital-to-analog converter (DAC) with a sampling rate of up to 24-bit/96 kHz, and a feature that lets you hear your vocals in the headset and control the volume with a dial that sits on the earcup. Otherwise, both models are pretty much the same.
Audio / Video Wireless audio has been on a tear for years. From the earliest days of Bluetooth stereo to the current state of the art with active noise cancellation (ANC), Bluetooth multipoint, and wireless charging, the products and their underlying technologies just keep getting better.
Will 2023 continue this pace with even more innovations? Absolutely. Here are three trends that will define wireless audio in the coming 12 months.
Bluetooth LE Audio Audio / Video If you’ve ever bought a set of Bluetooth headphones, earbuds, or even a Bluetooth speaker, you’ve been choosing (perhaps without even knowing it) which Bluetooth codec you’ll use when connecting to your smartphone. Codecs are a little like the different grades of gasoline you can put in your car, in that they can affect the performance of your gear.
But unlike gasoline, the world of Bluetooth codecs can be a confusing, jargon-dense quagmire of terminology, compatibility, and features. And Qualcomm’s family of aptX codecs (pronounced "ap-tex"), which now includes five distinct versions, might be the most confusing of them all.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
