Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Bose revamps QuietComfort headphones and earbuds with lossless, hi-res, and spatial audio By Simon Cohen Close Bose Bose has debuted its latest QuietComfort wireless headphones and earbuds — the Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones ($429) and Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds ($299). They feature new designs, new materials, and in keeping with the industry’s recent obsession with spatial audio, the new models are equipped with Bose Immersive Audio, Bose’s version of the 3D audio experience that Apple helped to popularize with its AirPods Pro.
 The Ultra models also have Qualcomm’s Snapdragon Sound platform, which enables hi-res or lossless CD-quality audio via the aptX Adaptive Bluetooth codec when used with compatible Android smartphones.
Bose Immersive Audio Hi-res, lossless, and LE Audio Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds Bose QuietComfort Headphones The new Ultra models replace the Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 and the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II (QCE II) as the company’s wireless audio flagships. Bose has also introduced a successor to the Bose QuietComfort 45 Headphones , known simply as the Bose QuietComfort Headphones ($349). All three models will be available in black or white, with an additional limited-edition green color for the QuietComfort Headphones. The Ultra models start shipping in October, with the QuietComfort Headphones arriving a little earlier, on September 21. Preorders for all three models start September 14 on bose.com.
Bose Immersive Audio Bose says its immersive audio system creates a wider, more spacious soundstage for all kinds of content. And similar to the Dolby Audio spatial option on the recently released Jabra Elite 10 wireless earbuds, Bose’s system uses sensors to enable optional head tracking.
Jabra’s latest wireless earbuds have Dolby spatial audio Both of Bose’s QuietComfort Earbuds II can now be used independently Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II will get lossless, Snapdragon Sound in 2023 Bose calls the head-tracked mode of immersive audio “still” — as in, when you’re not moving around, the head tracking locks the music in space, giving you a greater sense of realism. “Motion,” on the other hand, keeps the improved soundstage of spatial audio, but disables head tracking for when you’re moving around — head-tracked spatial audio can be a bit disorienting when you’re not sitting still.
Bose’s version of spatial audio is a bit more conservative than some other approaches. I’m told that the goal is to recreate the experience of sitting in the sweet spot between two stereo speakers that are in front of your listening position. I attended a demo of the new system in Brooklyn, N.Y., and it definitely matches that description.
Hi-res, lossless, and LE Audio Bose’s use of the Snapdragon Sound platform will support aptX Lossless , for a true rendition of CD-quality 16-bit/44.1 kHz sound, however its aptX Adaptive implementation of hi-res audio will be limited to 24-bit/48kHz.
In 2022, Bose said that it would add Snapdragon Sound to the QCE II in 2023 , however company spokespeople told me that this is now looking unlikely. The expectation is that those who value hi-res and lossless audio will buy the Ultra Earbuds instead.
Bose also told me that its Ultra products have the hardware to support Bluetooth LE Audio , including the Auracast broadcast feature, but that these features won’t be turned on in products’ software until there is wider support for LE Audio among smartphones and other devices.
Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones Bose The first thing you notice about Bose’s new flagship noise-canceling headphones (other than its much simplified name) is their design. They look like a hybrid of the now-discontinued Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 and the QuietComfort 45 — Bose has kept the slender profile of the 700, but returned to a traditional forked earcup pivot. Bose fans will also take note that the Ultra is able to fold up and fold flat — many folks were annoyed by the 700’s fold flat-only design, which takes up more room in a bag.
The headband is now a little wider and the sliders and earcup pivots have been built using aluminum instead of plastic. Bose tells me that choice was more about providing a high-end, luxurious feel for the Ultra, and less about concerns around durability.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends It seems the 700’s design wasn’t the only aspect of those headphones Bose felt needed a rethink. The Ultra Headphones almost entirely abandon the 700’s touch controls. These have been replaced by a single multifunction button for calling and playback control and a raised, capacitive strip for volume control. A long-press on the volume strip acts as a customizable gesture that can be used to activate a voice assistant or switch immersive audio modes. A combo power/Bluetooth pairing button covers the remaining functions, and Bose has kept the 2.5mm analog input for wired audio connections.
The Ultra Headphones now have wear sensors — something the 700 notably lacked when they debuted — and these can be used to auto-pause and resume music when you remove and replace the headphones. Bose says the cans will also enter into a hibernation mode 15 minutes after the Ultra have been removed if they aren’t put back on, which gets rid of the need to power them down manually.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Inside, the Bose says the Ultra have received a slew of improvements, including better active noise cancellation (ANC) and the addition of Active Sense — a feature Bose debuted on the QCE II that monitors your environment for loud sounds when you’re in transparency mode and switches to ANC when it detects dangerous decibel levels.
The Ultra also inherit another QCE II feature: CustomTune, which automatically calibrates the headphones to your ears’ specific shape and responsiveness. Bose says this improves both overall sound quality, as well as the effectiveness of ANC.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Bose claims that call quality is another area where the Ultra improve over their predecessors. The new cans use new mics arranged in a beamforming array that reportedly can differentiate your voice from any unwanted sound in a 360-degree pattern.
Even battery life has been moderately improved. The Ultra will apparently get 24 hours of playtime (versus 20 for the Noise Cancelling 700), unless you engage Bose Immersive Audio, in which case, it drops to just 18 hours.
The one thing that didn’t survive the transition to the Ultra model was Bose’s support for Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. The new headphones still let you work with a voice assistant, but only the one that’s natively built into your phone.
Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds Bose The Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds look nearly identical to their predecessors, but Bose says they now incorporate a metallic treatment for a more upscale look. The stability bands have also been slightly redesigned to ensure they grip the earbuds in the right spot for comfort.
On the technology side, ANC and sound quality remain unchanged (except for the new addition of Bose Immersive Audio), but the company says it has made changes to the mic setup to improve voice pickup. The mics aren’t more wind-resistant per se, but Bose has adjusted the algorithm to determine which mic is experiencing the least amount of wind noise in order to prioritize that earbud when it’s noisy outside.
Previous Next 1 3 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Bose Bose Maximum battery life is unchanged at six hours per charge, but Bose notes that using its Immersive Audio function will drop that number to just four hours.
Wireless charging was a notably absent feature on the QCE II, but Bose appears to have come up with a solution to add wireless charging to both the QCE II and the new Ultra Earbuds — but as an optional upgrade. You can buy a $49 silicone case cover that fits over the charging case for both models and will enable wireless charging. That seems like a lot of money to add a feature that can be found in earbuds that cost less than $100, but at least the option exists.
Bose Bose tells us that the bottom of the case cover plugs into the USB-C port of the charging case, but it’s a double-sided connection. You can still plug a USB-C cable in and the case cover will disable wireless charging when you do.
It takes about six hours to fully charge an empty case wirelessly, and Bose says the case cover should work with most wireless chargers — although MagSafe chargers may occasionally issue a charging error when you first set the case cover down.
Unfortunately, at launch, the Ultra Earbuds will still lack Bluetooth Multipoint.
 The reason, according to Bose, has to do with the complexity of the components that Bose has chosen — a combination of different chipsets from different manufacturers that make it hard to introduce features like multipoint. However, I was told that the company intends on bringing the feature to the Ultra Earbuds — I just wasn’t given a firm answer on when that’s expected to happen.
Bose QuietComfort Headphones The Bose QuietComfort Headphones are the least changed model of the new lineup. They’re effectively a rebrand of the QuietComfort 45, with slightly better battery life (24 hours versus 22 hours), the ability to vary the amount of ANC, and the addition of Spotify Tap, which gives Spotify listeners one-click access to their favorite playlists.
Editors' Recommendations JLab jumps into hi-res and Bluetooth LE audio with $200 Epic Lab Edition earbuds $2,199 Hed Unity Wi-Fi headphones are the first to offer lossless hi-res audio Nothing might launch new hi-res earbuds at CES under the XO brand Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II hands-on: stunningly quiet Bose shrinks the size and ups the performance of its noise-canceling earbuds Headphones Tech News Audio / Video The latest noise-canceling wireless earbuds from 1More combine the size and shape of its popular ColorBuds 2 with wireless hi-res audio. The 1More Evo will sell for $170 when ordering begins on May 10, 2022. They will come in black and white colors, and the company is offering $30 off if you order between May 10 and June 8.
To deliver on the promise of wireless hi-res audio, the Evo use Sony's LDAC Bluetooth codec, which can handle 24-bit audio using lossy compression as long as you have a compatible smartphone or computer. That's a trait they share with the more more expensive Sony WF-1000XM4 and the Technics EAH-AZ60, making the 1More Evo one of the most affordable ways to get LDAC capability in a set of earbuds. Unfortunately, that leaves out anyone using Apple's phones or tablets as iOS and iPad OS do not support LDAC.
Audio / Video Monoprice is adding another set of wireless noise-canceling headphones to its arsenal, but this time, it's leveraging Swedish audio company Dirac to give thes cans a bit of extra firepower. The $130 Monolith M1000ANC use Dirac's Virtuo technology to give listeners the ability to upscale their audio into a virtualized spatial presentation that mimics real speakers. You can buy them starting March 17.
The M1000ANC look like a cross between Sony's flagship WH-1000XM4 and Shure's Aonic 40, and feature a fold-up design that help make them ideal for traveling. Inside the memory foam-cushioned earcups are a set of 40mm drivers with a frequency response of 20Hz to 20kHz. "Our Monolith headphones have an excellent reputation for superb performance at unbeatable prices," said Hobie Sechrest, Monolith business unit manager for Monoprice, in a press release. "These headphones are no exception." Audio / Video Now that it's November, that can only mean one thing: It's time to start thinking about the best Black Friday deals! Yes, it does feel a bit early to be discussing it, given that Black Friday is still a few weeks away (we'll explain why below), but trust us -- it's not too early if you want to grab one of the best Black Friday headphone deals, and especially if you're looking for one of the best Bose Headphone deals, including Bose 700 deals.
But before we get into why you should consider the Bose Noise Canceling Headphones 700 this holiday, check out the deals at these three major retailers: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
