Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News MQair is the new hi-res Bluetooth audio codec for fans of MQA By Simon Cohen Close Just when you thought it was safe to step back into the turbulent waters of Bluetooth audio, we have yet another Bluetooth codec to consider. In addition to SBC, AAC, LDAC, and the constantly expanding family of aptX codecs , you can now add MQair (em-kyoo-air).
MQA MQair (known also by its technical label, SCL6) is the latest technology from MQA , the company founded by British audio pioneer Bob Stuart of Meridian Audio fame, and it has just been granted permission by the Japan Audio Society (JAS) to use the society’s Hi-Res Audio Wireless logo. It’s the third Bluetooth codec to receive the certification, the other two being LDAC and LHDC.
Hi-res audio Bluetooth codecs, generally speaking, are capable of streaming wireless audio at a bit-depth of 24 bits, and a sampling frequency of 96kHz or better. There’s been an increase in demand for products that use these codecs since Apple Music, Amazon Music, and other streaming services started to offer hi-res and lossless music within their libraries.
Astell&Kern’s new headphone DAC is PlayStation-ready Earfun makes hi-res audio more accessible with affordable earbuds and DAC The Canadian company that owns NAD and Bluesound now owns MQA On its own, this hi-res certification isn’t a reason to start looking for products bearing the MQair logo — after all, LDAC, LHDC, and even Qualcomm’s aptX Adaptive meet this standard. However, MQair has another attribute that will resonate strongly with fans of the MQA audio format: it lets a phone transmit the MQA Core format over a wireless connection while keeping that content intact.
MQA aficionados will likely guess why this matters. One day, if a headphone or earbud company were to include full MQA decoding inside their digital-to-analog converter (DAC), MQair would be able to provide them with the correct audio stream. When (if) that happens, it will be the first time that Tidal subscribers will be able to hear Tidal Master tracks (which have all been encoded with MQA) at their maximum quality on a set of wireless headphones.
For now, this is all very moot. MQA hasn’t announced any partnerships with manufacturers who are going to support MQair, let alone support MQA decoding in their onboard DACs. Still, MQA says that if manufacturers are willing to jump on board, they’ll be able to add MQair using software on a wide variety of existing Bluetooth chipsets. Qualcomm’s aptX Adaptive, on the other hand, requires specific Qualcomm chips in order to work.
MQA says that even if you have no intention of passing MQA over MQair, the codec can still deliver benefits. “The goal of MQair is not to introduce blur or temporal distortion to the audio passing across the link,” Bob Stuart told Digital Trends via email. “This has been a common drawback with low bit rate codecs that impacts sound quality.” MQair is a scalable codec, which means that just like LDAC, aptX Adaptive, and Samsung’s Scalable Codec, it can adjust its bit rate as needed based on a variety of possible conditions, like wireless congestion or interference. But unlike those other scalable codecs, MQair’s bitrate flexibility is massive, going as high as 20 Mbps, to “below 200 kbps” according to a press release from MQA.
That sounds impressive, but it’s worth noting that current Bluetooth connections, even under the most recent version (5.3), can’t support anywhere near 20 Mbps. Even Sony’s LDAC codec, which maxes out at 990 Kbps, often struggles to stay at this data rate, often dropping back down to one of its lower tiers, like 660 Kbps or 330 Kbps.
This brings up another question: Just how much bandwidth will MQair require to deliver on its signature promise of transmitting MQA intact over Bluetooth? And what happens when that bandwidth is reduced? Those questions aside, 20 Mbps makes MQair an interesting choice for Wi-Fi streaming. Apple’s AirPlay technology is limited to 16-bit/44.1 kHz CD quality, Google’s competing Chromecast can go up to lossless 24-bit/96kHz, but MQA claims that MQair will — at its highest bitrate — “deliver bit-perfect PCM or MQA,” which opens the door to sampling rates higher than 96kHz.
MQA as both a company and an audio technology has been at the center of controversy for years. Some who have experienced it come away deeply impressed by the sound quality they hear, but there have also been plenty of detractors — most prominently Neil Young — who claim that MQA’s encoding and decoding destroys and/or modifies the original audio tracks in ways that are deemed contradictory to the company’s claims of superior quality.
There are also those who feel that the proprietary and license fee-requiring MQA system simply adds unnecessary cost and complexity when the open-source FLAC format can deliver the same or better results. Don’t be surprised if MQair attracts its own share of boosters, skeptics, and critics.
Editors' Recommendations JLab jumps into hi-res and Bluetooth LE audio with $200 Epic Lab Edition earbuds Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity What is MQA? The controversial digital audio format fully explained Bose revamps QuietComfort headphones and earbuds with lossless, hi-res, and spatial audio Tidal will finally let you see which hi-res tracks are FLAC versus MQA Headphones Tech News Audio / Video Sony has released a software update for its flagship noise-canceling headphones, the WH-1000XM5, that enables head-tracked spatial audio -- a feature the company first debuted this week on its new WF-1000XM5 wireless earbuds.
The update also includes an enhancement of how Bluetooth Multipoint works on these wireless headphones. Previously, you had to choose between connecting two devices to the XM5 simultaneously or being able to use the company's LDAC hi-res Bluetooth codec. Turning on one of these features would automatically disable the other. Now, you can leave LDAC enabled and take advantage of simultaneous connections, even if one of the devices isn't LDAC-capable (like an iPhone).
Audio / Video When Tidal CEO Jesse Dorogusker announced in April 2023 that the music service would soon be adding lossless hi-res audio in the open-source FLAC format, a lot of folks cheered the move. And by a lot of folks, I mean audiophiles who have never been happy with Tidal's decision to use the controversial MQA format as its sole better-than-CD quality option. Right or wrong, it looked like the addition of hi-res FLAC would be the perfect compromise: when available, a listener could hear the FLAC version of their favorite track, and Tidal seemed to indicate that it will be keeping MQA as well, which made this seem like a win for all concerned.
But that's not what has happened.
Audio / Video Most big-name music streaming services have a lot in common. Apple Music, Spotify, Amazon Music, Pandora, and YouTube Music all have similar choices in music and quality -- it's just a matter of picking your preferred platform.
Tidal, on the other hand, breaks the mold. The business structure emphasizes the artists having more control over the platform, and it offers higher-quality audio in comparison to the big names. We have all the details on how this service works so you can decide if it's right for you.
What is Tidal? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
