Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sony WF-1000XM5 earbuds review: smaller is better By Simon Cohen Close $300.00 Small and comfortable Top-notch sound Excellent noise canceling Superb call quality Bluetooth multipoint with LDAC Fit isn't super secure Sony’s latest flagship wireless earbuds , the WF-1000XM5, are 25% smaller than their predecessors. Why am I throwing that out there? Because it’s really hard to find any faults with the XM5 predecessor — the WF-1000XM4 — except their size and shape. For a lot of folks, the XM4 were just too big for a comfortable fit.
Video review Sony WF-1000XM5: smaller, sleeker Sony WF-1000XM5: comfort and fit Sony WF-1000XM5: ANC and transparency Sony WF-1000XM5: call and voice quality Sony WF-1000XM5: sound quality Sony WF-1000XM5: spatial audio Sony WF-1000XM5: Bluetooth Multipoint Sony WF-1000XM5: controls Sony WF-1000XM5: battery life So right off the bat, the new XM5 have accomplished what might be their most important mission (assuming that their smaller size actually translates into better comfort).
Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Marshall updates its noise-canceling earbuds with better battery life Updating our Sony WF-1000XM5 review Sony also claims the XM5 have incremental improvements to sound, noise cancellation, and call quality. Oh, and there’s also one more incremental change: At $300, the WF-1000XM5 are Sony’s most expensive wireless earbuds to date.
Are the WF-1000XM5 as good in real life as they look on paper? I spent a week with them to find out.
Editor’s note: Our original review of the XM5, which we published on July 24, 2023, wasn’t a reflection of the earbuds that you’ll get if you buy them from Sony or one of its retail partners. That’s because we were sent prototypes to try, not full production units. Those prototypes suffered from several weaknesses, specifically in areas like noise cancellation, call quality, and Bluetooth connections. Sony has since provided us with final factory editions and this review now reflects our opinion of the product that Sony is shipping to customers.
Video review Sony WF-1000XM5: smaller, sleeker Sony WF-1000XM5 (top) and the 2021 WF-1000XM4 in silver.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The WF-1000XM5 aren’t just smaller than the XM4, they’re 20% lighter and way more streamlined. That goes for the earbuds as well as the wirelessly-charging case, which has also been given a more rounded, lozenge-like shape which is a lot more pocket-friendly.
Looks are a subjective thing, but I don’t think anyone was especially taken with the XM4’s bulky, bulbous shape and gold-tone microphone ports, except to say they were a bit better looking than the XM3 model that came before them.
The XM5, on the other hand, are small, smooth, and elegant. The microphone port is still there, and it’s still gold-toned, but it now sits flush with the earbud body where it looks more like an inlaid gold accent than a functional part of the device. You could wear these things to a black-tie event and not look out of place.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Part of the appeal is the glossy piano black (or the beigy color that Sony insists on calling “silver”) finish of the main body, which blends seamlessly — there are literally no visible seams — into the matte finish of the touch surface.
However, as good as it looks, that glossy finish is so slippery that it’s easy to lose your grip while handling them. Chris Welch at The Verge found them hard to remove from their case , but there is a trick to make it easier: use your thumbs to push them to the sides and they’ll pop right out.
Sony WF-1000XM5: comfort and fit Are they more comfortable than the XM4? For me, the answer is yes. The combination of smooth plastic and smaller size makes for a less fatiguing fit. Sony has also redesigned the foam eartips to be more forgiving and there are four sizes to choose from instead of three — an extra small size has been added.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends But the XM5 do not sit as securely as the XM4 or Sony’s LinkBuds S , which could limit the appeal of the XM5 for running or gym use, even though they have an IPX4 rating for water and sweat resistance.
 The glossy finish provides a lot less grip on the skin of your ear and the horn (the part that’s covered in the foam eartip) doesn’t stick out from the earbud body as far as it does on the XM4. This limits how deeply you can insert the earbuds and thus limits the amount of contact the foam sleeve has with your ear canal.
Let me caveat this by saying I have deeply set ear canals, and the XM5 aren’t the first earbuds I’ve worn that feel like I can’t get them into my ears as far as I’d like. If you’re in the opposite camp, and routinely have trouble getting earbuds to sit fully in your ears, this could be very good news.
It hasn’t been a deal-breaker for me. While I have had to nudge them in more than I’d like — even with the largest tips installed — overall I prefer the comfort of the XM5 over the secure fit of the XM4.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends New for the XM5 are built-in accelerometers, which enable the same kind of head-tracked spatial audio that Apple has added to select AirPods models. (More on that in a moment). Sony has taken advantage of the accelerometers to incorporate head movement control gestures. They’re rudimentary but work like a charm: you can nod your head to accept an incoming call or decline it by shaking your head. In theory, Sony could give you more gestures and more actions — Klipsch’s T5 II ANC uses dedicated software from Bragi to do this — but I wouldn’t hold my breath on that.
Sony WF-1000XM5: ANC and transparency For the XM5, Sony has moved from a single processor (its V1 which was used on the XM4) to a dual processor platform made up of its new V2 Integrated Processor plus its latest dedicated chip for noise cancellation — the HD Noise Cancelling Processor QN2e. Sony says that by running these devices in tandem, along with the XM5’s six onboard microphones, and the XM5’s redesigned drivers, it can achieve better ANC performance across all but the highest frequencies when compared to the XM4.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I found that to be true — the XM4 was no slouch in the ANC department, but the XM5 is better. Not radically better, however. If I had to put a number on it, I’d say 10% to 15% better, though you may find there are certain times and places when it’s more noticeable, especially if you’re battling with very low frequencies. Another area of strength is the XM5’s ability to deal with wind noise while in ANC mode. Wind can often undermine ANC performance — my recent experience with the Beats Studio Pro was a reminder of that. The XM5 seem utterly unaffected by wind.
For day-to-day situations, I found them to be just as capable as Apple’s AirPods Pro 2 ($249) and the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II ($299). But the XM5 are more persnickety. To get the same level of ANC performance, you’ll have to use the set of included eartips that provide the very best seal and even then, you’ll need to ensure they are twisted into your ear as deeply as is comfortably possible.
Only once I had done that was I able to get the XM5 to match the Bose and Apple earbuds in my totally unscientific bathroom fan test — where I stand outside my bathroom and listen to how earbuds cancel the fan noise. The Headphones app provides a fit test — it can help you find the best-fitting ear tips, but think of the results as a suggestion, not the gospel, on which tips will work best for you.
From left: Sony WF-1000XM5, LinkBuds S, WF-1000XM4.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Similar things can be said of the XM5’s transparency mode. It offers a more natural sound when piping in the outside world than the XM4, but even with its optional voice-targeting mode, it can’t quite meet the exceptionally high bar set by the AirPods Pro 2. Sony has improved the transition time between ANC and transparency modes, although curiously, it’s faster at switching from transparency to ANC than vice versa.
As with the XM4, the XM5’s speak-to-chat option can detect when you start speaking and shift automatically from ANC to transparency, while simultaneously pausing your music — a handy feature. It takes a second to kick in, but it seemed to be very consistent in detecting my voice. Unfortunately, it’s not very aware of the XM5’s status — if you’re already in transparency mode with your music paused, speak-to-chat still emits an audible ping when you talk to let you know that it has registered you’re speaking, with a follow-up chime after a predetermined interval once you’ve stopped speaking, which is pretty annoying given that is hasn’t actually done anything.
I wish Sony had taken a page from Apple’s transparency playbook. The AirPods Pro 2 have a feature called Adaptive Transparency, which constantly monitors your environment for loud noises when you’re in Transparency mode. If a sound is judged to be dangerously loud, it kicks you into ANC mode instantly to protect your hearing. Given the additional processing power Sony has given the XM5, I’d like to think they could manage this trick, too.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sony WF-1000XM5: call and voice quality Sony claims its new dual processor platform also gives the XM5 a leg up when it comes to call quality. Beyond the six mics, there’s also a bone conduction sensor in each bud that feeds your voice vibrations into an AI algorithm, which Sony says has been trained on 500 million voice samples — with the goal of separating your voice from background sounds.
That’s a lot of tech to throw at call quality, but it seems to have paid off. Digital Trends’ Editor-at-large Caleb Denison (who also received a set of XM5) and I conducted a series of phone calls using both the XM5 and the AirPods Pro Gen 2 , which we both consider to be super for calls.
What we discovered impressed us. The WF-1000XM5 are incredibly good at masking all of the background sounds that would normally steal the focus away from your voice. Traffic, construction, and even very blustery wind were all erased to the point where there was no audible trace on the other end of the call.
At times, your voice does take a bit of a hit — when a background sound is really loud, it can greatly reduce the volume of your voice too. There’s also a bit of compression that can smear some of the finer details. But overall, the XM5 deliver your voice with greater dynamic range than the AirPods Pro. That’s good for outdoor calls and great for indoor calls, where the built-in mics really shine.
Sony WF-1000XM5: sound quality The XM5’s drivers have been significantly redesigned from the XM4 — they’re 40% bigger at 8.4mm (vs 6mm) and they sport a new shape. Sony calls it Dynamic Driver X — a dome-edge separation structure that combines different materials (though Sony hasn’t indicated what those materials are). It’s designed to reduce distortion while improving both vocal clarity and low-frequency response.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sony has never disappointed us when it comes to sound quality, and the XM5 are superb, with a sound signature that can best be described as a small but still noticeable enhancement of the XM4’s performance. Bass response, which has always been a Sony strength, is deeply resonant and musical but now feels better balanced with the rest of the frequencies.
Through a variety of genres from hard rock to jazz, these earbuds kept individual elements distinct from each other. Even on a track like Zeal by Bill Laurance, where the many layers of synth, strings, and percussion, proved too complex for the Bowers & Wilkins Pi7 S2 , the XM5 managed to keep things organized and intelligible. When using Sony’s LDAC Bluetooth codec (Android only), detail and dynamic range — especially with lossless hi-res audio sources — were further improved.
Vocals are crystal clear, but despite the presence of those new drivers, I’m not sure the XM5 deliver a better high-end than the XM4. On some tracks, like Camila Cabello’s Bam Bam , I actually preferred the XM4’s treatment, which sounded a little less processed. But I’m really splitting hairs here — they both sound great.
The soundstage has excellent detail and precision, but as we’ve noticed with both Sony headphones and earbuds, it’s a stage that doesn’t expand very far outside your head — most of the sound is concentrated within a small circle. That’s when listening to normal stereo. 3D formats, like Sony 360 Reality Audio (360RA) and Dolby Atmos offer a much wider performance, with 360RA benefitting the most.
Sony has also thrown in a beta version of its sound personalization system called Find Your Equalizer. You pick a song to listen to and the feature walks you through a series of three EQ modifications. With each step, you pick your favorite mod from among a few numbered options, and each of those choices leads to further refinements. In the end, the system saves your EQ settings as a custom preset within the Headphones app’s equalizer section, where you can modify it or turn it on and off. I wasn’t wild about the sound signature it created, which seemed to significantly de-emphasize the highest frequencies, but it’s a fun tool to mess around with if you’re not keen on moving individual EQ sliders around.
Sony WF-1000XM5: spatial audio Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Yes, the XM5 support head-tracked spatial audio, but for now it’s limited to just a few situations. I couldn’t get it working with any Dolby Atmos Music sources like Amazon Music or Apple Music, but it did work when watching Netflix on a Google Pixel 7 Pro. The key is that the phone itself has to support head-tracking, which ruled out my other two test phones, an iPhone 14 and a Xiaomi 12 Pro. Sony tells me that it will also work with immersive games like Niantic’s Ingress when the feature is added later this year.
While watching The Batman , I was able to move my head and some parts of the soundtrack remained anchored to the location of the phone. However, it’s not as smooth or convincing as Apple’s version of head-tracked spatial on the AirPods Pro Gen 2.
Sony WF-1000XM5: Bluetooth Multipoint Bluetooth 5.3, connections on the WF-1000XM5 were solid, with about average range for wireless earbuds — you’ll get approximately 25 feet indoors, and up to 45 feet outside with no obstructions.
I quickly and easily paired two devices at once, including a MacBook Air and a Google Pixel 7 Pro. I really like that Sony gives you two ways to put the XM5 into pairing mode: if you remove the earbuds and place them in their case, you can use the small button on the back of the charging case, or, you can use the Headphones app, which will initiate pairing while you’re wearing the earbuds. Either way, pairing is fast and easy, especially if you have an Android device — Google Fast Pair works like a charm.
Unlike the Technics EAH-AZ80 and some other earbuds that support LDAC, you don’t need to choose between Bluetooth Multipoint and LDAC use — they can be used simultaneously. Better yet, switching between connected devices was seamless for me.
Sony tells me the XM5 will support LE Audio , including Auracast and music sharing, but I wasn’t able to test these features.
Sony WF-1000XM5: controls The WF-1000XM5, like many earbuds, use touch controls instead of physical buttons. They’re very accurate and easy to use, and Sony’s use of a short tone when you successfully tap gets rid of any doubt — if you don’t hear the tone, tap again. Sony has also made an effort to improve the availability of functions. On the XM4, you were forced to choose between different control groups, which meant that if you wanted to be able to adjust the volume (for example) you might have to live without voice assistant access.
Sony’s solution has been to add volume control access as an always-on feature. That makes a lot of sense. What doesn’t make much sense (to me, at least) is that volume changes are now accomplished by tapping each earbud four times — the right earbud raises the volume and the left lowers it. Four taps for a high-use feature like volume is excessive and kind of awkward.
Unfortunately, there’s no way to change any of the gestures. The only customization available within the Sony Headphones app is whether you want to assign ANC functions to the left or right earbud (or you can decide to ignore ANC entirely and use both earbuds for playback control). To be fair, neither Apple nor Bose offers much customization either, but I prefer the way those earbuds manage volume changes.
An extension of these controls is Sony’s auto-pause feature, which is enabled by the XM5’s wear sensors. Pop an earbud out to pause your tunes; pop it back in to resume. It works really well, but you also can disable it in the app if it bugs you. In the same vein is the auto-off feature, which will power down the earbuds if you’re not wearing them but forget to put them back in the case (this can also be disabled).
Sony WF-1000XM5: battery life Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Battery life is unchanged from WF-1000XM4: Sony claims you’ll get eight hours of playtime per charge when ANC is turned on, and up to 12 hours when it’s off. With two full charges in the case, that means that if you keep volume no higher than 50%, you may be able to get up to 36 hours of total time before you need to charge up. But Sony has managed to improve the XM5’s quick-charge feature once again. You now only need to stick the earbuds in their case for three minutes to grab an extra hour of playtime — that’s one of the fastest quick-charge times we’ve seen so far.
One thing that Sony has changed from the WF-1000XM4 is the amount of voice guidance you get. Popping the XM4 into your ears triggers two pieces of feedback: the first message tells you the remaining battery life and the second lets you know that the earbuds have successfully connected to one device (or two, if using Multipoint). I could do without the second message, but I really liked hearing “battery fully charged” (or whatever the level is at). Unfortunately, these messages have been removed — now you get a tone for connection (followed by a double-tone if a second device connects), but that’s it.
It’s evident from the time I’ve spent with the WF-1000XM5 that Sony has developed a fantastic set of wireless earbuds. When it comes to sound quality and noise cancellation, I can safely say you won’t find better, even if you spend more. Their call quality is among the best, they’re absolutely loaded with the latest features, and the only area where Apple remains on top is transparency.
They’re also much more comfortable than the XM4. For anyone who wanted to buy the XM4, but couldn’t because they were just too big, the XM5 are absolutely worth a try — even with the extra $20 tacked onto the price.
If you’re content with the XM4’s fit, I don’t think you need to rush out and upgrade to the XM5. There’s no doubt that Sony has found plenty of ways to improve, but for the most part, they’re small improvements. In fact, now that the XM4 is no longer the newest kid on the block, you can expect some pretty decent discounts, which will make the XM4 even more attractive.
Editors' Recommendations Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Olivia Rodrigo’s latest collaboration is a set of limited-edition Sony LinkBuds S Best wireless earbuds for 2023: Sony, Bose, Soundcore, and more Sony updates WH-1000XM5 with head-tracked spatial audio and better multipoint Sony debuts the WF-C700N, its most affordable noise-canceling earbuds Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Sony Audio / Video From their impressive sound quality to their awesome noise cancellation, Sony's WF-1000XM4 are among the best noise-canceling wireless earbuds you can buy. But that doesn't mean there isn't room for improvement. If the latest leaked images, courtesy of the Walkman Blog, are indeed the XM4's successors (thus the WF-1000XM5), I think it's fair to say we now have a good idea of what some of those improvements might be.
Though the images are a bit rough due to their source (the Walkman Blog says they're from a certification document, but doesn't say which certification entity published them), a few things are immediately notable -- specifically their size and shape.
Audio / Video Bowers & Wilkins (B&W) has released new versions of its two models of noise-canceling earbuds: the Pi5 S2 ($299) and Pi7 S2 ($399). They're available starting January 25 and feature small but welcome improvements to their predecessors, the PI5 and PI7, which launched in 2021. The company says both new models have improved battery life and better Bluetooth connectivity.
The earbuds now come in new color options. The Pi7 S2 are available in Satin Black, Canvas White, and Midnight Blue. The Pi5 S2, which has seen a $50 price increase from the PI5, come in three new color options at launch: Cloud Gray, Storm Gray, and Spring Lilac, with a fourth color -- Sage Green -- coming later this spring.
Audio / Video Audio-Technica has been in the personal audio game for 60 years, but that doesn't mean it can't learn a thing or two from newer competitors. The company's newest wireless earbuds -- the $299 ATH-TWX9 -- borrow a feature that LG first debuted on its own line of earbuds: sterilization of bacteria and viruses using UV light. They're available from Amazon and other retailers.
When you pop the ATH-TWX9 back in their charging case, a UV light system engages, and with a little help from something called "mirror processing," the company says bacteria and viruses will be eliminated from the surface of the earbuds. It's not entirely clear whether that means just the eartips, or the whole earbud, but the fine print is careful to point out that while the system is more than 99% effective against E. coli and bacteriophage viruses, and more than 90% effective against Staphylococcus aureus, it won't kill all bacteria and viruses, and Audio-Technica doesn't know how well it protects against the virus that causes COVID-19.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
