Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides What is Snapdragon Sound? Qualcomm’s wireless audio brand fully explained By Simon Cohen Close The world of wireless audio can be dauntingly complex once you start to wade into all of the gory details.
Bluetooth codecs , Bluetooth versions, hi-res audio — and what is this thing called latency that some folks seem to be so obsessed with? But perhaps the biggest question people have when buying new gear is this: Will it work? Codec confusion AptX Adaptive to the rescue Fragmentation frustration Snapdragon Sound — one brand to rule them all? Qualcomm, the company that owns and creates a huge amount of the tech that goes into Bluetooth audio products, has its own solution: Snapdragon Sound.
The name (which piggybacks the Snapdragon processor brand) is both a family of technologies and a certification of compatibility, designed to put your mind at ease when you see it on a phone or a set of wireless earbuds. But what is it, exactly? And does it really eliminate the need to worry about whether your gear will do what you want? Here’s everything you need to know.
Qualcomm promises sub-20-millisecond latency for Bluetooth audio Next-gen Qualcomm chips make wireless earbuds, headphones better for gaming and spatial audio What is MPEG-H? The burgeoning 3D audio standard explained Codec confusion Before we get into what Snapdragon Sound is, let’s quickly recap the events that led up to the creation of this brand.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Bluetooth audio codecs are at once a brilliant technology and a royal pain in the butt. Without audio codecs we wouldn’t be able to use Bluetooth to listen to anything — uncompressed music is just too big to fit inside the limited bandwidth of a Bluetooth connection. But there isn’t just one Bluetooth codec — there are something like 14 of them. Most, like SBC, AAC, and LDAC, are simple to understand. As long as your phone (or computer, or tablet) and your headphones (or earbuds, or speaker) are both equipped with the same codec, they’ll work just fine together. If it’s not in both places, it’s like a language that only one device knows how to speak.
But Qualcomm’s family of aptX codecs , of which there now are five varieties, are a bit harder to wrap your head around. Classic aptX came first, followed by, aptX HD, then aptX Low Latency (aptX LL), and aptX Adaptive. Most recently we have aptX Lossless.
Each new aptX codec was meant to improve on the one that came before, while still being compatible with devices that only supported the older versions. AptX HD brought better sound quality over aptX by supporting higher bit depths, and higher bitrates, and aptX LL (for Low Latency) was seen as a solution to the problem of latency — the gap between when you see something on your screen and you hear the corresponding bang from your headphones.
But all three of those initial aptX flavors had downsides. AptX couldn’t handle high-resolution music. AptX HD didn’t perform very well when wireless interference caused data rates to fall below its preset rate of 576 Kbps. And aptX LL is a bit of an antenna hog — if you’re using your phone for Wi-Fi, cellular, and Bluetooth simultaneously, aptX LL becomes unreliable, so it’s been limited to situations where you can plug a dedicated aptX LL USB dongle into a PC or a console.
AptX Adaptive to the rescue Simon Cohen / Digital Trends In 2018, Qualcomm felt it had landed on the answer: aptX Adaptive. It’s flexible, with the ability to operate in both hi-res (24-bit, up to 96kHz) and CD-quality (16-bit/44.1kHz) modes. It’s also ultra-efficient — the company says it can deliver all of the quality of aptX HD, but with less data consumption and less power. Finally, it’s highly scalable, which means it can automatically adjust its bitrate to changing wireless conditions, ensuring that you always get the best possible audio quality at any particular moment.
It can, in theory, also provide latency as low as aptX LL (without the antenna problem), and it brings along some improvements to voice call quality. And just like its predecessors, it’s fully backward compatible with all products built to work with older aptX flavors. Time for a victory lap! Fragmentation frustration It wasn’t long before phone makers and wireless headphone companies began integrating aptX Adaptive into their products. But cracks in the foundation were beginning to appear. AptX and aptX HD had been included in the Android operating system for years at this point, so a lot of folks have come to assume that Android equals aptX.
But a big difference between aptX Adaptive and classic aptX/aptX HD is that you can’t add it to a phone using software alone. It requires Qualcomm’s chips to do a lot of the things that make it so powerful. Some Android phones — especially those built for the budget end of the market — don’t use Qualcomm’s chips, so they aren’t able to run aptX Adaptive at all.
Samsung, Xiaomi, OnePlus, Asus, Sony, Motorola, ZTE, and many others include aptX Adaptive in at least some of their Android models. Google, however, has opted out, declining to add the technology to any of its Pixel smartphones.
 And Apple has never supported any aptX flavor on its mobile devices.
Still, it should be an easy-ish landscape to navigate. If your phone and your chosen wireless audio product both say they support aptX Adaptive, what else do you need to know? A lot, actually.
In its desire to provide manufacturers with plenty of flexibility, Qualcomm made almost every aptX Adaptive capability optional. So you might buy a set of headphones that support aptX Adaptive, thinking that they’ll give you 24-bit/96kHz performance, only to find out that they’re limited to 24-bit/48kHz. Or your earbuds might support that level of resolution, but it hasn’t been enabled on your aptX Adaptive-capable phone.
Worse, still, is that unless you pored over the specifications for each product, it’s really hard to tell what is supported and what isn’t. Even within a brand, there can be differences. Master & Dynamic, for instance, supports the full 24-bit/96kHz capability on its MW08 wireless earbuds , but its newest wireless headphones , the MW75 , are limited to 24/48. You only know if you dig deep and read those specs.
Snapdragon Sound — one brand to rule them all? Qualcomm Qualcomm eventually realized that all of this flexibility might be good for manufacturers — at least the ones that licensed the codecs. But it created a lot of uncertainty for buyers.
To settle the issue once and for all, it created the Snapdragon Sound program. The name strongly suggests that this is yet another codec or technology, but it’s not. Instead, it’s intended to signify when two products will work together reliably and with a certain set of guaranteed features. If you see “Snapdragon Sound” on a set of earbuds and on a smartphone , you can breathe a sigh of relief, knowing that they will “just work.” Well, mostly.
In 2021, when Snapdragon Sound was officially launched, it was a guarantee of five key features, which had all been tested and certified to work by Qualcomm: AptX Adaptive at 24-bit/48kHz AptX Adaptive at 24-bit/96kHz Low latency mode when gaming AptX Voice (super wide band voice) when on a call Qualcomm Bluetooth High Speed link But since then, Qualcomm has expanded that guaranteed and tested feature set. In 2022, it added aptX Lossless , a codec that can deliver bit-perfect CD-quality audio at 16-bit/44.1 kHz — a first for the Bluetooth audio world.
And as of November 2022, the company has announced it’s expanding Snapdragon Sound further , with the addition of head-tracked spatial audio , an enhanced version of aptX Lossless that goes up to 48kHz, and improved latency with back-channel voice for in-game experiences. These new Snapdragon Sound features will begin showing up on smartphones and wireless headphones in 2023.
Few will complain about getting new features, but Qualcomm isn’t offering any way to distinguish between products that support the basic Snapdragon Sound features, those that support aptX Lossless, and those that will offer the most recent updates including spatial audio.
All Snapdragon Sound products, regardless of feature set, will still bear the same Snapdragon Sound logo. It’s Qualcomm’s expectation that each manufacturer will have to call out the specific features their products support, which in some ways brings us right back to where we were when manufacturers could decide which aptX Adaptive features they wanted to support.
Does this mean the Snapdragon Sound label is pointless? No, it still has value.
At the very least, all Snapdragon Sound products are backward compatible. If your earbuds are an earlier Snapdragon Sound model, but your phone was designed for a newer Snapdragon Sound revision, it will still let your earbuds do everything they were designed to do. In that way, the label still stands as a certification that the products you’re about to buy are going to work well together. You’ll just have to pay close attention to which Snapdragon Sound features are supported by each product, and know that if any of those features are out of sync, they won’t work.
Editors' Recommendations Qualcomm’s new Wi-Fi chips are poised to revolutionize wireless audio What is aptX? Cutting through the clutter of Qualcomm’s codecs What are Bluetooth codecs and do they really matter? The wireless audio tech fully explained What is an audio codec? A jargon-free explainer What is spatial audio? Apple’s 3D sound feature fully explained Qualcomm Audio / Video Qualcomm has revealed its next-generation Bluetooth chips for makers of wireless earbuds and headphones, and the company predicts that 2022 will be the year that we see a whole slew of new innovations like lossless hi-res audio, audio sharing, lower latency, and Bluetooth broadcasting come to our phones and personal audio gear.
The giant mobile chipmaker says that its two new sound platforms, S3 and S5, will be provided to customers like Yamaha, Cambridge Audio, Master & Dynamic, and Audio-Technica -- just to name a few -- and that we can expect to see the first S3- and S5-based products by the second half of 2022.
Audio / Video Never in the history of headphones — and particularly in the history of the wireless variety — has someone said: "You know what? I'd like the ones with the worse audio quality." Just doesn't happen. And to that end, Qualcomm today announced the latest iteration to the aptX standard, called aptX Lossless.
Building on aptX Adaptive, which brought HD-quality audio with dynamic bit rates when it was announced in August 2018, aptX Lossless takes things that much further, and is designed to give listeners CD-quality, 16-bit, 44.1kHz lossless audio. The gist is that if you're using hardware that supports aptX Lossless, and are listening to a lossless music file, and the radio frequency conditions are just right, you'll get the best wireless sound possible from the Qualcomm tech.
Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
