Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Netflix free trial: Can you stream for free in 2023? By Lucas Coll Close Almost no one would argue that Netflix is not the godfather of streaming. It basically started the entire movie streaming concept and reinvented it when it launched its first original program, House of Cards.
 Even though the streaming market is a bit more crowded now, Netflix still has some unbeatable programming. Netflix prices have risen over the last few years, and there are some hints that it might keep rising. If you’re thinking about joining or rejoining the streaming giant but aren’t quite sure, you’re probably looking for a free trial. We’ve collected all the information you need to know on how to save some money with a new Netflix account.
Is there a Netflix free trial? Can you get Netflix for free? Are there any Netflix deals? Is there a Netflix free trial? Thibault Penin/Unsplash Just as there’s no Disney Plus free trial , you’re out of luck if you’re hoping to find a Netflix free trial on offer right now. There was a 30-day free trial in the past but Netflix scuttled it a couple of years ago, and we don’t anticipate it coming back any time soon. Unlike some other streaming services (the excellent 30-day Hulu free trial comes to mind), Netflix doesn’t appear to feel obliged to run free-trial offers. That’s a tough break for the “try before you buy” crowd, but the sad truth is that, like Disney+, Netflix has a pretty captive audience and doesn’t really need to do much to entice people to sign up. The good news is that Netflix has flexible plans, allowing you to upgrade, downgrade, or cancel your subscription at any time with no punitive fees. There are no contracts or commitments to worry about if you decide the service isn’t for you, or just want to take a break for awhile.
Can you get Netflix for free? Netflix’s enduring popularity can be a good thing, as it means that you can sometimes score Netflix for free through third parties. Retailers and service providers may offer free Netflix subscriptions, even if only for a certain length of time, with select purchases (such as a new smart TV) or when you sign up for a new service such as a home internet package or an unlimited data plan. If you’re thinking about signing up for Netflix but you can wait, keep deals like this on your radar — you never know when one might pop up. Right now, for example, T-Mobile gives you Netflix for free if you.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Since prices may or may not go up, alternatively, you might consider some of the other services with offers, like the Showtime free trial , Amazon Prime Video free trial , the Sling TV free trial , or even the Hulu with Live TV free trial.
 They’re certainly not the same as Netflix, but they offer plenty of content to hold you over until you can secure a subscription! Are there any Netflix deals? Image used with permission by copyright holder As of now, there are no noteworthy Netflix deals available through the streaming platform itself, and just as with a Netflix free trial, we’re not anticipating any. You don’t get a discount for paying yearly, either; there’s one flat monthly fee (which varies depending on what tier you sign up for) and that’s it. That’s more sad news for deal hunters such as ourselves, but Netflix’s simple and transparent pricing plan is hard to complain about, and the month-to-month payment structure doesn’t lock you into a contract, so it’s easy to cancel or change your plan any time you want. Still hesitating over whether to sign up? Check out our recommendations for the best movies on Netflix , the best shows on Netflix , and the best Netflix originals to get a bird’s-eye view of what you get with your Netflix subscription.
Editors' Recommendations Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now ESPN+ Free Trial: Can you sign up for free in 2023? Showtime Free Trial: Get a month of streaming for free The best hidden gems on Netflix right now This deal gets you live TV and a free Fire TV Stick Lite Deals Entertainment Mobile Cheapest Prices Free Trial Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Unfortunately, there is not a Disney Plus free trial right now. Disney hasn't offered one for a few years. However, you can currently get the ad-supported version of Disney Plus for just $2. Disney is offering a special discount that gets you three months of the service for $2 per month. The service is normally $8 per month, so you'll save $24 total by the end of your three month subscription. This offer is only available until September 20, 2023.
Another way to save is through the Disney Bundle, which sees ESPN Plus and Hulu thrown in for just $13 a month. On their own, Disney Plus is normally $8 per month, Hulu is $8, and ESPN is $10, so this is a great deal. If it sounds good to you, you should start your subscription now. The price of the Disney Bundle is increasing to $15 on October 12, 2023.
Audio / Video There are a ton of music streaming apps, and it seems like another one pops up every year . In this broad and competitive field, a few names stand taller above the rest, and none may be taller than Spotify. In fact, only Apple Music can truly compare, as it's the only music streaming app that outpaces Spotify in the United States, although Spotify is still the king worldwide. If you're interested in giving one of the best music streaming services a try and are curious to know if there's a Spotify free trial (or other ways to save), then keep reading.
Is there a Spotify free trial? A basic Spotify membership is free, but new subscribers can get a Spotify free trial for the Premium membership. Spotify Premium gives you access to all the streaming features that Spotify has to offer, such as on-demand playback, ad-free listening for the entire catalog, and offline listening. Spotify Premium is priced similarly to its two biggest competitors, Apple Music and Amazon Music Unlimited, at $10 per month.
Audio / Video Philo is a live TV streaming service that gives you access to over 70 channels for the low price of $25. It's a simple cable-replacement service with a lot of your favorite channels on it, including AMC, Comedy Central, HGTV, Nickelodeon and many more. Like all the best live TV streaming services, you can get Philo on your TV by using the Smart TV app or a streaming stick like the Amazon Fire 4K. You can also use it on your laptop or phone. Philo includes unlimited free cloud-based DVR, so you can record and rewatch shows even if they haven't yet appeared on a streaming service like Netflix. You get all of this without being tethered to a cable box, and there is no contract, so you can cancel whenever you want. The service is cheap, but if you want to test it out before you buy, you can always check out the Philo free trial.
Is there a Philo free trial? Yes, there is a Philo free trial. You can get a full week of the service completely free. You will have to enter your payment information though, so don't forget to cancel your subscription once your trial is up if you don't intend on continuing with the service. The signup process is simple. You just have to enter your basic info (including a credit card) and confirm your account via an email. You'll be streaming live TV within five minutes. You can even use the unlimited Cloud DVR for that week, but you'll lose access to the things you recorded after your week is up.
Can you get Philo for free? There isn't a way to get Philo for free. The service costs $25 per month, unless you use a coupon code or find a deal (more on that below). There currently aren't any sign-on bonuses or package deals that give you the service completely free, although some give you a discount. Your best bet for getting the service for free is to leverage the Philo free trial.
Are there any Philo deals? After your Philo free trial is over, you'll be looking for a way to save some cash on the subscription. Even though $25 per month is one of the cheapest live TV streaming services out there, there are ways to make it cheaper. If you're a T-Mobile user, you can get the service for only $15. All you need is a T-Mobile or Sprint phone number. Signing up through your T-Mobile account will get you a 40% discount on the service for one full year. It will go back to $25 after that.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
