Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: What is Roku? Best Roku TVs How to Pair a Roku Remote The Roku Channel How to Use AirPlay on Roku Best Roku Devices Star Button on Roku Remote Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Philo: Everything to know about the live TV streaming service By Simon Cohen and Nick Perry Close Cutting the cable cord isn’t necessarily cheaper than paying for cable anymore. Many top streaming services offer massive channel lineups compared to cable, but after paying for them (and your internet connection), you may just be breaking even.
What is Philo? Channels and price Features Supported devices Viewing experience Our take But do cord cutters really need extensive channel offerings? Philo , a live TV streaming service that’s a competitor to Sling TV and other live TV streamers, believes the answer is no.
While device support was initially limited to Roku, the Philo app is now on Apple TV, Android TV, Amazon Fire TV, Android TV, Samsung TV, and more. Now that it’s available in so many places, it’s a great time to take a look at Philo if you’re looking to save some money without sacrificing live TV entirely.
Washington Huskies vs. Oregon State Beavers live stream: watch college football for free 2023 Champions Classic live stream: watch college basketball for free The Netflix Cup live stream: how to watch the live golf event What is Philo? Image used with permission by copyright holder While Philo is similar to Sling TV, DirectTV Stream , YouTube TV , or Hulu with Live TV in terms of how it works and the technology behind it, it is a very different offering. Instead of trying to replace a full cable subscription, it offers a smaller subset of channels, and while it’s more expensive now than when it launched, it is still a compelling service with a single $25 per month subscription plan. (Although it also offers a couple of add-ons.) There are some trade-offs for that low price, however. Philo is focused on offering mainly entertainment and lifestyle programming, which makes sense given that most of its programming is provided by owners A&E, AMC, Discovery, Scripps, and Viacom (provider of channels like Comedy Central, CMT, MTV, and others). This focus means you won’t find two things that are often prominently featured in other services’ packages: Sports channels and local network channels. But what you will find are plenty of sought-after channels plucked from cable’s deeper catalog.
Channels and price Image used with permission by copyright holder Philo offers a single $25-per-month package, making it significantly simpler than many competitors that offer multiple packages and add-ons for different prices. It’s also significantly more affordable than the next closest competitor, Sling TV’s $40-a-month basic package.
Philo mostly features its owners’ channels. Currently, the service offers 60-plus subscription channels including popular cable networks like AMC, BBC America, BET, Comedy Central, Discovery Channel, Food Network, HGTV, IFC, Lifetime, MTV, Nickelodeon, TV Land, and VH1. There are also 10 free channels, including Bloomberg TV and Crackle. Conspicuously absent from the service, however, are the major networks — ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, and The CW — as well as sports channels like ESPN and Fox Sports.
Philo does, however, offer three premium add-on channels: Epix for $6 per month Starz for $9 per month Movies & More for $3 per month (access to a limited number of movie features each month) The good news when it comes to local networks is that many of us can easily get them for free (and in HD, no less) with the purchase of an affordable HD antenna.
 If you’re in that camp, and you don’t mind missing out on sports, Philo is an enticing option, and the cheapest way to catch up on banner shows like The Walking Dead or The Daily Show live. Here’s what’s included in the $25 per month Philo subscription: Features In addition to livestreaming channels, and a collection of over 40,000 on-demand titles, Philo also offers a free cloud DVR like many pricier streaming services. There is no limit to how much you can record, and Philo allows you to keep recordings for up to a year, a generous allotment considering it used to be limited to around a month.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Another feature to consider when shopping for streaming services is how many different devices can tune in at the same time. Philo offers three concurrent streams, meaning up to three people can watch on different devices at a time on the same account. This falls roughly in the middle of the pack: DirecTV Stream offers three, and Sling TV offers up to three, depending on which package you choose. Philo also offers the ability to create up to 10 profiles , with individual saved shows and viewing history.
Other features include common TV options like a TV guide and browsing capabilities, closed captioning, a Keep Watching section, and more. Philo also supports picture-in-picture viewing, AirPlay , and the ability to adjust your video quality.
What about watching away from home? All of Philo’s livestreaming channels can be accessed on the go via the company’s iOS app, or the Chrome browser on Android devices. Additionally, many of the channels carried by Philo offer their own on-demand shows and movies that might not be included in Philo’s on-demand catalog. To access them, you need to download that channel’s dedicated app, and then sign in using your Philo credentials. To see which channels offer this service, and the platforms they support, check out Philo’s TV Everywhere help page.
Supported devices Early on, Philo struggled to keep up with rival services when it came to device support. For a long time, the Roku platform was the only way to watch the service on a TV, meaning you needed either a Roku TV or one of the company’s streaming boxes or newer streaming sticks.
 Things have changed however, and now Philo is also available on Apple TV and Fire TV devices, including the Fire TV Cube.
 There’s also app support for Chromecast and Samsung TV, although you’ll need devices from the last couple of years or newer for these platforms. An app is available for iOS and iPadOS devices, as well as Android devices. It’s also accessible via web browser, including popular options like Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari. It is not available, however, on game consoles such as Xbox and PlayStation.
Viewing experience During our time testing Philo, we watched the service on every supported platform, and the picture quality was good no matter which we chose. The picture is slightly softer-looking than Sling TV, but not as much as we have experienced with DirecTV Stream in the past.
When it comes to actually navigating through available shows, the interface is mostly universal from platform to platform, with an easy-to-use guide for browsing live TV and on-demand options alike.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s clear from the get-go that Philo is content-oriented, not channel-oriented. No matter which platform you’re watching on, the first thing you’ll see when firing up the app is the home screen, which features two main sections: Trending Live shows, presumably shows other users are watching the most; and New & Upcoming, which lets you see which shows and movies are on the way. If you were previously watching one or more TV shows or movies, you’ll also see an option to pick up where you left off.
There is also a Live section that shows what is currently airing, organized alphabetically by channel. While other streaming services tend to start you off on the livestream, Philo instead gives you the option to click through on-demand content or skip to the livestream if you prefer.
Our take Finding the right streaming service isn’t an easy task, especially when you’re looking for something comprehensive yet affordable. In the case of Philo, if it offers the channels you’re looking for, it’s a great option. Obviously, this isn’t the streaming service for news junkies or sports fanatics, and if you’re just looking to save money, you might also consider a Netflix or Hulu subscription supplemented by a more limited (but totally free) service like Pluto TV.
If you’re curious about Philo but aren’t ready to commit, there’s a free seven-day trial , and you don’t even need to enter payment information for the first two days — all you need is your mobile number. If you’re still uncertain, make sure to check out our comparison of the other most popular live TV streaming services to get the lay of the land.
Editors' Recommendations Georgia Bulldogs vs. Tennessee Volunteers live stream: watch college football for free 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free Don’t let these 3 hidden gem November streaming TV shows fly under your radar New York Jets vs. Las Vegas Raiders live stream: watch the NFL for free USC Trojans vs. Oregon Ducks live stream: watch college football for free Audio / Video Cord Cutting 101 Roku TV Entertainment All eyes will be on the No. 3 Michigan Wolverines (9-0) on Saturday when they travel to Happy Valley to play the No. 10 Penn State Nittany Lions in front of what's expected to be a rowdy crowd at Beaver Stadium. The game will be on Fox at noon ET on November 11. Fox's Big Noon Kickoff will preview the day's games starting at 10 a.m. ET on Fox. Gus Johnson (play-by-play), Joel Klatt (analyst), and Jenny Taft (reporter) will be on the call for Michigan versus Penn State.
Michigan is the most-talked-about team in college football for reasons off the field. The Wolverines have been accused of illegally stealing signs from their competition. An investigation is currently underway. The University of Michigan has expressed its support for head coach Jim Harbaugh. However, the NCAA and Big Ten are determining when and how they should discipline the team. Will Harbaugh be fined and suspended? Will Michigan have to forfeit their postseason eligibility? Keep in mind: Michigan is in the hunt for a National Championship and must beat Penn State if they want any shot at the playoff.
Entertainment Friday night marks the return of the NBA In-Season Tournament as group play will feature Kawhi Leonard and the Los Angeles Clippers traveling to Texas to face Luka Doncic and the Dallas Mavericks inside American Airlines Center. The game is scheduled for 8:30 p.m. ET/7:30 p.m. CT on November 10. The Clippers and Mavericks are two of the five teams in West: Group B. Friday's matchup marks Los Angeles' first game in group play. The Mavericks, however, are 0-1 in the group stages after losing 125-114 to the Denver Nuggets.
Clippers versus Mavericks is a local game, so fans in the Los Angeles and Dallas markets can watch on over-the-air TV stations. Los Angeles residents can watch on Bally Sports SoCal, and Dallas inhabitants can see the game on Bally Sports Southwest. For fans across the country, the best way to watch the game is on NBA League Pass, which streams nearly every game on the schedule. NBA fans can purchase League Pass through the streaming television service Sling TV. Find out more information on how to watch NBA games from anywhere with Sling TV below.
Watch the Clippers vs. Mavericks live stream on Sling TV Entertainment College basketball fans are in for an early season treat when the No. 12 Arizona Wildcats (1-0) travel east to play the No. 2 Duke Blue Devils (1-0) on Friday night. The NCAA basketball game will be played in front of a raucous crowd at Cameron Indoor Stadium in Durham, North Carolina. ESPN Bet lists Duke as a 5.5-point favorite.
A home-and-home two-game series is rare this early in the season, so give credit to Arizona and Duke for signing this agreement. 2023's matchup will be played at Duke, and 2024's matchup will take place at Arizona's home gym. The Blue Devils are expected to be title contenders after returning four key players from last year's tournament team. Arizona will also be in contention come March as one of the best teams in the Pac-12.
Watch the Arizona vs. Duke live stream on ESPN2 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
