Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sling Orange vs. Sling Blue: What’s the difference? By Derek Malcolm , Michael Bizzaco and Tyler Lacoma Close When it comes to cutting ties with your cable company, gone are the days of scrambling to find a new provider for all the channels you don’t want to say goodbye to. With services like Hulu + Live TV and YouTube TV offering paid cable for our TVs and mobile devices, all we need is a network connection to enjoy all of our favorite movies and shows without the burden of high cable costs.
What you get How much does each plan cost? How many streams can you watch? Sling channels Extra channel packages Best of both worlds Full channel listings by package Dish Network’s Sling TV is another great streaming service for newbie cord-cutters and discerning TV lovers alike, offering live TV, on-demand movies and series, and sports. Sling TV has long been known for its relatively bite-sized programming packages, rather than offering a single glut of channels, allowing users to choose the channels best suited to them, optioned through its two primary plans, both offered for the same $35 price — Sling Orange and Sling Blue. Being spoiled when it comes to choice poses a problem: How do you choose which Sling TV package is best for you? In this quick guide, we’ll explain the benefits of each so you can make the right decision and raise your cord-cutter game.
Arizona Wildcats vs. Duke Blue Devils live stream: watch college basketball for free Dortmund vs Newcastle live stream: Can you watch for free? What is DirecTV Stream: plans, pricing, channels, and more What you get If your channel needs are fairly simple, the choice between Sling Orange (which currently offers 32 channels) and Sling Blue (with 43 channels currently on offer) could be an easy one, as there are a fair amount of channels included in both packages. These include coveted cable news channels like Bloomberg and CNN, lifestyle programming like the Food Network and Travel Channel, and popular cable staples such as AMC, TBS, TNT, Comedy Central, and History. That said, there are some essential differences between the two services, especially when it comes to sports and certain groups of networks.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How much does each plan cost? Currently, there is no price differentiator when deciding between both Sling subscription options , as both Blue and Orange are $35 per month. If you’re looking to grab the best of both worlds, you can also bundle the two plans together for $50 per month.
Sling TV subscribers also receive 50 hours of free DVR storage but can upgrade to DVR Plus to get up to 200 hours (for both the Blue and Orange plans) for an additional $5 per month, on top of the baseline cost of $35 or $50.
If you really want to maximize your Sling TV package, there’s an add-on called Total TV Deal that costs an extra $21, on top of the base package price. Under Total TV, subscribers get all of the extra channels (more on these below) under the Blue and Orange plans, along with DVR Plus.
New subscribers should also be on the lookout for promotional pricing. As of right now, Sling is currently offering reduced rates for the first month of Blue and Orange respectively ($10/the first month), as well as the Blue/Orange combo ($20/the first month) for new members.
How many streams can you watch? Before we get into programming, one major differentiator you need to know between Sling Orange and Sling Blue has to do with the number of devices that can stream Sling TV simultaneously. Sling Orange is limited to a single stream, meaning you’ll be limited to watching on one device at a time. You can switch from one device to another, but you can never watch on both devices at the same time. Sling Blue offers up to three streams, making it a better option for larger households. If you’re only ever watching on one TV or mobile device at a time, this may not matter, but it’s definitely worth keeping in mind.
Sling channels The number of streams aside, Orange and Blue offer separate channel packages, with some channels overlapping and some important channel differences. Here are a few of the most important points when comparing: Sling Orange is the Disney-friendly channel. Notably, that means that viewers get ESPN, ESPN2, and ESPN 3, which is great for keeping up on live sporting events. It also means that Orange viewers get access to the Disney Channel. Blue doesn’t get any of these channels.
Sling Blue has all of the Fox networks, including FS1, FX, Fox News, etc. It also adds MSNBC to the mix. Orange doesn’t have access to any of these channels.
If you prefer to watch sports on networks like NBC Sports and the NFL Network, Blue may be the better bet — it has these channels while Orange does not, generally making it a better pick for pro football than Orange.
There are also other smaller differences to consider based on what’s important to you. Blue gets access to National Geographic, SyFy, and the Discovery Channel, while Orange does not, and so on. Check our table below for more information.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Extra channel packages Now that we’ve looked at Sling TV’s core packages, it’s time to start thinking about add-ons for the perfect blend of content. Some packages, like Hollywood Extra — which offers movie channels like Sundance, Fandor, and Turner Classic Movies — are exactly the same for Orange and Blue packages. Others are very different: The Kids Extra is only available on Blue, while the AMC Extra is only available on Orange.
Some options also vary in the specific channels they offer. For example, Sling Blue offers fewer channels in its Sports Extra package, but its price is the same as Sling Orange’s Sports Extra Package at $11 per month. Blue’s Sports Extra, however, includes NFL Redzone, NBC Gold, and BIG Network. Orange offers ESPN NEWS, ESPN U, SEC ESPN, and the Longhorn Network instead.
Best of both worlds Sling TV markets itself as a cost-effective alternative to cable. However, having access to all the channels you’d have via cable will cause you to pay for both Sling Orange and Sling Blue. After adding up the cost of each of these services, the total edges closer to what your regular cable bill would be. Orange and Blue total $50 per month. Keep in mind, you’ll also have to pay for internet access in addition to these services. Below, we’ve created an all-inclusive list of the base channels available in either Sling Blue or Sling Orange and if you have both services combined.
If you still have more looming questions about Sling TV, check out our complete guide to the service.
 In addition to a full channel list, you’ll also find more detailed information about Sling, such as time-shifting channels and much more.
Sling is a bit of an underdog in the streaming services market, but its unique approach to streaming adds some real value for its subscribers. Sling gives you access to streaming content, but it also provides television on-demand. With all of these awesome benefits, consider giving Sling a try. You probably won’t regret it.
Full channel listings by package Sling Orange Sling Blue Sling Orange and Blue A&E Yes Yes Yes AMC Yes Yes Yes AXS TV Yes Yes Yes BBC America Yes Yes Yes BET Yes Yes Yes Bloomberg TV Yes Yes Yes Bravo No Yes Yes Cartoon Network Yes Yes Yes Cheddar Business Yes Yes Yes Cheddar News Yes Yes Yes CNN Yes Yes Yes Comedy Central Yes Yes Yes Comet Yes Yes Yes Discovery Channel No Yes Yes Disney Channel Yes No Yes E! No Yes Yes EPIX Drive-In Yes Yes Yes ESPN Yes No Yes ESPN2 Yes No Yes ESPN3 Yes No Yes Freeform Yes No Yes Food Network Yes Yes Yes Fox No Yes Yes Fox News No Yes Yes Fox Sports 1 No Yes Yes Freeform Yes No Yes Fuse Yes Yes Yes FX No Yes Yes HGTV Yes Yes Yes HLN No Yes Yes History Yes Yes Yes HLN No Yes Yes IFC Yes Yes Yes Investigation Discovery Yes Yes Yes Lifetime Yes Yes Yes Local Now Yes Yes Yes MotorTrend Yes No Yes MSNBC No Yes Yes National Geographic No Yes Yes NBC No Yes Yes NBC Sports No Yes Yes NFL Network No Yes Nick Jr.
No Yes Yes Stadium Yes Yes Yes SyFy No Yes Yes TBS Yes Yes Yes TLC No Yes Yes TNT Yes Yes Yes Travel Channel Yes Yes Yes USA No Yes Yes Editors' Recommendations What time is the UFC fight tonight? Full UFC 295 schedule How to watch Heroes on the Hudson boxing: Jamel Herring vs. Nick Molina AC Milan vs PSG live stream: Can you watch the game for free? F1 live stream: Watch Formula 1 online for free How to watch Efe Ajagba vs. Joe Goodall: Live stream boxing tonight Audio / Video Cord Cutting 101 Streaming Services Versus Entertainment Joe Cordina is defending his IBF World Super Featherweight title this weekend in a fight against Edward Vazquez. Cordina (16-0, 9 KOs) had previously held the title, lost it by not defending due to a hand injury, then regained it in April in a bloody fight against Shavkatdzhon Rakhimov that at the time was considered a candidate for for Fight of the Year. Vazquez (15-1, 3 KOs) became Cordina's mandatory challenger when we won the vacant IBF interim belt in a bout against Brayan De Gracia in July.
Joe Cordina vs. Edward Vazquez will be live streamed from Monte Carlo, Monaco, at 2:00 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 4. It will be broadcast exclusively on ESPN+. Here's everything you need to know to watch boxing online this weekend.
Cordina vs. Vazquez undercard Deals As great as online streaming platforms are, some people miss the cable and live TV days -- not necessarily because of the prices or confusion, but the option to catch whatever is on at a given time. It can be frustrating trying to find a decent movie or show to watch or even make a selection with so much available these days. If that sounds like you, that's where the best live TV streaming services come in. In fact, Hulu has its own live TV streaming service in its Hulu with Live TV package, which is one of the largest streaming platforms by subscriber count (more than 4 million, in case you were wondering). It's a more comprehensive streaming service than basic Hulu, though, so it's naturally a bit pricier. The higher price may warrant a testing period. It's always good to give something a try before spending your hard-earned money, which leaves you wondering: Is there a Hulu with Live TV free trial available? Here's what you need to know.
Is there a Hulu with Live TV free trial? Just as there is no Disney Plus free trial, there is also no Hulu with Live TV free trial at the moment. That said, there is a Hulu free trial for the basic ad-supported service if you want to give that a try to see if Hulu's non-live catalog of shows and movies is worth it. You get to try Hulu for 30 days, too, which is ample time to explore the catalog and then decide if you want to upgrade to the full Hulu with Live TV package to get those television channels that basic Hulu is missing. Other than that, though, you'll have to pony up the cash if you want to sign up for Hulu with Live TV -- but that doesn't mean you have to pay full price.
Audio / Video Sling TV — the third-largest live streaming service in the U.S. — today announced a handful of new features that touch a wide swath of the Sling experience.
Here’s what users have to look forward to: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
