Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Hulu with Live TV vs. Sling TV: Which streaming service is right for you? By Amanda Blain Close Live TV streaming services can offer a great alternative to traditional cable and help you cut the cord.
 Besides offering a lot of on-demand content, you can also catch up with sports games, your afternoon soap opera, or talk shows. Things can get pretty confusing when you are trying to figure out which live TV service to go with, though. Two of the more popular options are Hulu with Live TV versus Sling TV.
 We will go over all the details in this article to help you figure out if one of these live TV services is right for you.
What is the content like on each? Hulu versus Sling prices Which devices can you watch Hulu Live TV and Sling TV on? All the extra features like DVR and screens Wrapping up What is the content like on each? Image used with permission by copyright holder A streaming TV service isn’t worth a dime if you can’t watch what you want. Thankfully, both Hulu with Live TV (also known as Hulu + Live TV) and Sling TV will let you view many of your favorite channels, but they each work a little differently.
Hulu with Live TV Although this pricing plan will change in December 2022, currently, Hulu with Live TV only has one primary subscription option, which contains almost everything in its catalog. Most customers can expect to find the four major networks — ABC, CBS, Fox, and NBC — represented via their local affiliates (though this varies by region), as well as a number of major cable channels such as FX, USA, and TNT, 24-hour news networks such as CNN, Fox News, and MSNBC, and sports channels such as ESPN and Fox Sports 1. The actual channel lineup varies by location, so if there’s one channel that’s make-or-break for you, check Hulu’s listings for your region before signing up.
Hulu Hulu doesn’t have everything, however. You won’t find AMC Networks, Hallmark Channel, Lifetime Movie Network, or BBC America. You can subscribe to premium networks like HBO, Showtime, Cinemax, and Starz through Hulu for an additional fee. There are also add-on packages: The Entertainment add-on includes Destination America and the Cooking Channel, the Sports add-on includes NFL Redzone and the Outdoor channel, and the Español add-on includes several Spanish-language channels. Fees for the add-ons start at $5 and range up to $10 monthly.
Washington Huskies vs. Oregon State Beavers live stream: watch college football for free The best Hulu original series right now 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November As a bonus, you’ll also receive access to the standard Hulu service with your subscription. This gives you access to many excellent movies and TV programs , including episodes from broadcast networks that aired just a day or two earlier, as well as Hulu’s critically acclaimed original series like The Handmaid’s Tale and Only Murders in the Building.
Sling TV Sling TV, on the other hand, offers an à la carte model that lets you choose which channels you get. For the most part, you’ll only be paying for programs that you actually watch, which is a good thing. On the other hand, it makes signing up for Sling TV more complicated and forces you to do a little math when calculating costs.
Sling TV subscriptions start with two base packages: Orange and Blue.
 There’s some overlap between the two — both Orange and Blue packages come with AMC, CNN, Food Network, and Cartoon Network, for example. Orange also contains Disney-owned properties, which means it’s more sports-focused, thanks to the three ESPN networks.
Sling TV Orange’s supported channels Image used with permission by copyright holder By contrast, Blue has more entertainment options, including FX, USA, and Bravo. As of this writing, Blue is also the only place where you can find MSNBC, NBC, and Fox, assuming that they’re available in your area. You can also subscribe to Orange and Blue together at a discount.
Sling TV Blue’s supported channels Image used with permission by copyright holder The rest of Sling TV’s channels come via optional add-ons that run from $6 to $21 and tend to be grouped based on themes like Kids, Comedy, News, and so on. This is where things get tricky. Which add-on package to get can depend on which base subscription you have. For example, if you subscribe to Sling Orange, the Sports Extra pack includes ESPNews, SEC Network, and ACC Network. If you subscribe to Sling Blue, Sports Extra won’t have any of those, but it will have NFL RedZone, Big10 Network, and the Olympic Channel.
You can also add some individual channels, like the wellness-oriented Grokker, for a few extra bucks, as well as premium channels like Showtime and Cinemax. Note that Sling TV doesn’t currently support HBO subscriptions thanks to a feud between its parent company, Dish Network, and AT&T, nor does it give you any way to watch ABC or CBS.
Hulu versus Sling prices Image used with permission by copyright holder Thanks to Sling’s à la carte model, it’s hard to make direct price comparisons between Sling and Hulu, but these are the basics.
Hulu with Live TV costs $70 a month for 90-plus channels, plus everything offered on regular Hulu. It’s pricey, but it’s a lot of entertainment.
Sling’s basic packages, Orange and Blue, cost $35 per month each or $50 together but will undergo a price change on December 3, 2022 , when they’ll jump to $40 each for Orange and Blue and $55 for the combined pack. Extra Sling channels and packages will set you back somewhere between $3 and $11 each, depending on the specific add-on package.
Hulu’s offers aren’t quite as exciting, but you can bundle the service with Disney+ and ESPN+ to get a monthly discount on the package. It’s only worth it if you regularly use at least two of these services, but every little bit counts.
Extra features like Hulu’s Unlimited Screens add-on (more on that below) or Sling’s cloud-based DVR will also raise your subscription price, as will premium channels like Starz, Showtime, and (only for Hulu) HBO. Subscriptions to those channels tend to cost the same as everywhere else unless there’s a limited offer, so expect to pay $15 for HBO, $10 for Cinemax, and $11 for Showtime, etc.
Which devices can you watch Hulu Live TV and Sling TV on? Image used with permission by copyright holder Both Hulu with Live TV and Sling TV work on all of the standard streaming devices, so if you have a Roku, Amazon Fire TV or Fire tablet, Apple TV, Chromecast, Chromecast with Google TV , a gaming console, or a home PC, chances are you should be set. If your hardware is older, however, it may not be supported, so it’s worth checking both Hulu and Sling’s device compatibility lists before you give either any of your money.
If you prefer to use a smart TV to stream media, you’ll be glad to know you can use just about any popular smart TV platform. LG, Vizio, and Samsung TVs support both, as do TCL Roku TVs, Sony Android TVs, Hisense Android TVs, and Hisense Roku TVs.
As far as gaming consoles go, both services will run just fine on the Xbox One , while Hulu with Live TV also works on the Nintendo Switch and Playstation 4 and 5. There are tons of streaming options out there , and you can’t always assume every app is available for your device, so take a glance at the compatibility lists online before settling on a service. It’s better to be safe than sorry.
All the extra features like DVR and screens Image used with permission by copyright holder Modern cable companies offer all kinds of extra features, and both Hulu + Live TV and Sling TV do, too.
DVR As part of your Hulu with Live TV subscription, you’ll get access to a cloud-based DVR service, which will let you record unlimited hours of your shows and watch them later (that’s in addition to Hulu’s standard on-demand programming, which is chock-full of recent series and movies). After nine months, the recordings will automatically be deleted.
Sling TV now includes 50 hours of Cloud DVR for free with every subscription, but $5 will get you an extra 200 hours worth of storage space. Currently, the recordings never expire.
Number of screens With a standard Hulu with Live TV subscription, you can stream shows to two different screens at once. To add more screens, you’ll have to subscribe to the $10 Unlimited Screens add-on, which lets you stream to as many machines as you want while you’re at home and three mobile devices while on the go.
With Sling, the number of simultaneous streams you get depends on which base package you select. Orange subscribers get just one, while Blue subscribers get three. This can be frustrating, especially if you pay for both, which leaves you with some channels that can’t be streamed simultaneously. There is no upgrade option at this time.
Interface Hulu with Live TV’s interface looks a lot like its on-demand offering. You can search for shows, add your favorites to a list, filter by genre, and see your most recently viewed channels. You can see what is coming on next with Live Guide.
Hulu Sling TV has schedules for each channel and shows you what is coming up next. With Sling, you can search by theme, time, or specific shows.
Wrapping up If you’re looking for a service that will give you all you can get, it’s hard to argue against Hulu with Live TV. Not only is Hulu’s one-and-done subscription plan easier to figure out, but it gives you more channels, including all four major broadcast networks, upfront. This package also gives you access to Hulu’s regular content, which is available for on-demand streaming.
If you don’t need all of the channels Hulu + offers, you can save some money by using Sling TV. Pair Sling with an HDTV antenna (which should help you get those missing broadcast networks) and Netflix , which you probably subscribe to anyway, and you’ll end up with a pretty formidable — and cost-effective — entertainment collection.
Ultimately, both Hulu with Live TV and Sling TV are reliable live TV services. When you’re ready to cut the cord for good , either package could satisfy your streaming needs.
Editors' Recommendations Georgia Bulldogs vs. Tennessee Volunteers live stream: watch college football for free 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December Audio / Video Cord Cutting 101 Hulu Streaming Services Entertainment Four of the most accomplished teams in college basketball will convene for the State Farm 2023 Champions Classic. Debuting in 2011, the Champions Classic features Duke, Kansas, Kentucky, and Michigan State. No. 9 Duke (1-1) versus No. 18. Michigan State (1-1) will play in the first game, followed by No. 17 Kentucky (2-0) vs. No. 1 Kansas (2-0). Both games will be played at the United Center in Chicago, Illinois.
The Champions Classic is a chance for college basketball fans to watch four of the premier programs in the sport. The event serves as an early-season litmus test for each team. In last year's event, Kansas defeated Duke while Michigan State beat Kentucky, with the latter game going to double overtime.
Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on ESPN Entertainment November is chock-full of wonderful new shows you might have heard about already, including Monarch: Legacy of Monsters, the latest in the MonsterVerse featuring Godzilla and starring Kurt Russell, and the murder mystery A Murder at the End of the World starring The Crown's Emma Corrin. But as we head full force into the holiday season, there are plenty of other fabulous shows being released that aren’t talked about as much.
You won’t want to let these three hidden gem streaming TV shows fly under your radar in November, as all of them have been getting largely positive reviews so far.
Lawmen: Bass Reeves Lawmen: Bass Reeves | Official Trailer | Paramount+ Entertainment Netflix is entering the world of live sports with The Netflix Cup, which combines F1 and the PGA Tour for a new and innovative golf event. Four drivers from Netflix's Formula 1: Drive to Survive will join forces with four golfers from Netflix's Full Swing in a golf competition at the Wynn Golf Club in Las Vegas, Nevada. The event kicks off an important week in Vegas, which will host the first-ever Formula 1 Heineken Silver Las Vegas Grand Prix on November 18, 2023.
Four pairs – one F1 driver and one PGA Tour golfer – will participate in The Netflix Cup. There will be two eight-hole matches. The winners of Match 1 and Match 2 will compete in the final playoff for a chance to win the inaugural Netflix Cup. Which team will win the championship? Find out how to watch The Netflix Cup below.
How to watch The Netflix Cup on Netflix The Netflix Cup | Netflix's First Live Sporting Event | Official Teaser | Netflix Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
