Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video News Google TV gives NFL Sunday Ticket top billing, adds FAST channels By Phil Nickinson Close Google / Google Google announced today that all Android TV and Google TV devices in the U.S. are getting more than 25 new free channels, baked right into the operating systems’ Live tabs. That brings the total number of built-in FAST channels to more than 100, meaning that you’ll be able to watch all kinds of free content without having to download a single thing. It’s all built in.
FAST channels refer to free, ad-supported television and can be individual shows or entire channels of content. Google didn’t immediately name the 25-plus channels, but said they include the BBC and Lionsgate. (You can see a big list of them here.
) And that’s on top of the others that were added in the spring, which brings a ridiculous 800 or so channels (more or less) to the platform. Whether they have what you want to watch? That’s completely up to you. But it’s free.
Google / Google And on the sports front, look for NFL Sunday Ticket to have increased presence on the Google TV home screen, thanks to “full integration.” That’s an unsurprising move given the importance of NFL Sunday Ticket now that it’s moved from DirecTV. The subscription service — which costs several hundred dollars for the full season — allows NFL fans to watch out-of-market Sunday games. It’s not quite carte blanche because blackout rules still apply if a home team doesn’t sell out its stadium, but it’s pretty darn close.
NFL Sunday Ticket is available as part of YouTube TV , or on YouTube proper. The NFL Sunday Ticket price varies a little depending on whether you subscribe via the former, or the latter. The first Sunday to take advantage of NFL Sunday Ticket will be September 10. (The season starts the previous Thursday with Detroit at Kansas City, on NBC.) NFL buffering on YouTube TV? You’re not alone today YouTube TV is still growing on the back of NFL Sunday Ticket Roku adds NFL Zone to its software, and not a moment too soon And if you subscribe via YouTube TV , you’ll get all the Sunday games in the channel guide, so they’re easy to find.
Editors' Recommendations YouTube NFL outage: Should Google give refunds or credits? FuboTV: channels, price, plans, packages, and add-ons NFL Sunday Ticket in 2023: Everything you need to know NFL Sunday Ticket free trial: How to watch free for a week Can you buy NFL Sunday Ticket on a TV? Yes, no, and sort of Entertainment Android Streaming Services Tech News Audio / Video When it comes to smart TVs, these monolithic QLEDs and OLEDs require an internet connection to get you connected to services like Netflix and Disney+. But like any good computer or mobile phone, there’s an operating system taking care of apps, navigation, and all things user interface-oriented behind the scenes. For Samsung TVs, this OS is called Tizen, for LG TVs, it’s webOS, and for brands like Sony, TCL, and Hisense, it used to be called Android TV, but now (for the most part) it’s called Google TV.
While Google TV is really just an evolutionary leap based on the building blocks of Android TV, you’ll still see the Android TV moniker on a modern TV or two. Many modern home theater projectors also use the Android TV OS. That being said, it’s a platform that’s still relevant. Here’s everything you need to know about Android TV.
An important note on Android TV and Google TV Audio / Video Whether you're looking for a new TV or streaming device, two of the leading smart TV platforms and user interfaces you'll be choosing from are Google TV and Roku TV. Both of these content and navigational platforms are excellent options, with many shared pros between them.
For years, Google has provided the building blocks to smart TV brands from Sony to Hisense under that Android TV banner. Presently, the structural framework of the Android TV system is giving way to an all-new Google operating system known as Google TV. You'll find Google's latest OS running on Sony, Hisense, and TCL TVs, as well as first-party Google devices like the Chromecast with Google TV 4K and Chromecast with Google TV (HD).
Audio / Video You had to know that NFL Sunday Ticket on YouTube would at some point intersect with some of the biggest stars on YouTube, right? To that end, you can start looking for QR codes on select videos on the MrBeast channel — as well as on the NFL YouTube channel. There are 1,000 codes buried in old videos, and if you're the first to scan one, you'll get a free subscription to NFL Sunday Ticket this season (hat's worth about $450 retail).
So you'll want to be quick about it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
