Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Guides What is DirecTV Stream: plans, pricing, channels, and more By Tyler Lacoma Close DirecTV Stream is the latest name for what once was AT&T’s live tv and on-demand streaming service, previously called AT&T TV, among other names. It’s now jointly owned by AT&T and private equity firm TPG Inc., if you’re concerned about such things. That new venture means that we no longer have insight into how many subscribers DirecTV Stream has, but it’s believed to be the smallest of the live streaming services in the United States. (The last time we got numbers was at the end of 2020, when the service was at about 656,000 subscribers, or about half that of Fubo, or no bigger than 13 percent of YouTube TV’s base.
) What channel options does DirecTV Stream have? Is DirectTV Stream different from DirecTV? What are the pricing and packages for DirecTV Stream? In any event, you’re looking to cut the cable cord , DirecTV Stream is on more service to consider among others such as Hulu With Live TV , Sling TV , and the aforementioned YouTube TV.
Let’s break it down.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends What channel options does DirecTV Stream have? DirecTV Stream’s lineup has always been pretty extensive, buoyed by the fact that it’s one of the only services that offers multiple tiers that adds more channels the more you pay..
DirecTV Stream has a full channel lineup guide so you can check which specific channels are included in each package and what certain channels can be added on for an additional fee. It’s an impressive lineup when compared to other options like Hulu With Live TV and Sling TV.
What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more Apple TV+ and other Apple One services get a price hike Best streaming devices for 2023: Apple TV, Roku, and more Is DirectTV Stream different from DirecTV? Yes, it is, and it’s important to know the difference. DirecTV refers specifically to the satellite subscription, which requires a satellite dish and doesn’t use internet-based streaming. DirecTV Stream is the internet version where you stream channels over your home network, or on your mobile device. The channel lineup is very similar, but you may run across small differences since they’re completely separate services.
DirecTV Stream and DirecTV now share a site so you can make quick comparisons — just make sure you don’t get them confused. Also, note that they both support recording content via DVR, but Stream uses cloud-based recording to store shows.
What are the pricing and packages for DirecTV Stream? They are very similar to AT&T’s packages and even have the same names. Let’s take a look: Entertainment — $80 per month: This is the base package with the fewest channels (75-plus) at the lowest cost. It includes live TV, most on-demand titles (more than 40,000 of them), and unlimited recording. Showtime, Starz, Epix, and are all included free for the first three months, but you will get charged for them after that. This is one of the only upgrades from AT&T TV, which did not offer any free subscription months in this package.
Choice — $109 per month (currently available for $84 for the first two months) : Choice is a significant upgrade that adds more channels (105-plus), such as additional ESPN channels, the Cooking Channel, and more. You also get access to 5,000 more on-demand titles on the service (over 45,000 in all), and access to regional sports networks that make it easier to watch local games. It offers three free months of Max (new users only for this deal, not previous subscribers), Showtime (you’ll need a separate subscription for this one), Starz, MGM+, and Cinemax.
Ultimate — $120 per month (currently available for $95 for the first two months) : This includes everything that the Choice package has, plus a further 35 more channels (140-plus) that include things like the NHL Network and FXM, and even more on-demand titles (now up to 55,000). With this package, you get three free months of Max (again, new users only), Showtime, Starz, EPIX, and Cinemax.
Premier — $165 per month (currently available for $140 for the first two months) : The Premier package bumps up the price significantly to throw in subscriptions for Max, Starz, Cinemax, and Showtime, and you get three free months of MGM+, too. You’ll still have to pay for entirely separate apps with no AT&T partnerships, like Netflix or Hulu. The number of channels is also increased to more than 150, and you have access to the full list of 65,000-odd on-demand titles.
You are also able to sign up for a free five-day trial period as a new subscriber. Previously, DirecTV Stream required an extra fee for unlimited cloud storage for TV recordings. Now unlimited cloud DVR storage is automatically included in every package. However, note that additional taxes may apply to all packages, as may periodic discounts AT&T offers. AT&T also recommends an internet speed of at least 24Mbps and limits users to three concurrent out-of-home streams at a time. Additionally, DirecTV and U-Verse TV customers cannot apply for AT&T TV: You’ll have to contact an AT&T rep and discuss stopping those older subscriptions and switching over to this service.
Editors' Recommendations DirecTV Stream raises pricing across all its tiers FuboTV: channels, price, plans, packages, and add-ons What is Spotify? Music, pricing, and features explained What is Disney Plus: plans, price, and everything else you should know The Roku Channel is now available as a Google TV app Entertainment Apps AT&T Audio / Video One of the most exciting things about the 2023 NFL season is that NFL Sunday Ticket is going to be available to a lot more people — basically, everyone, since it'll be streaming on YouTube TV and YouTube proper. This raises a good question: Does DirecTV have anything left for football fans? Today, the NFL answered that question: NFL Network and NFL RedZone will be available on the legacy satellite service, on the DirecTV Stream streaming service, and on the old U-verse DSL service, keeping the dream alive after two decades. NFL RedZone is a channel that shows scoring opportunities as they're about to happen, hoping from game to game in the process. And NFL Network has the occasional game and plenty of news and features beyond that.
Audio / Video Paramount Plus — the streaming service once known as CBS All Access — has come a long way in a relatively short amount of time. It started as the streaming home for all things CBS. But executives quickly saw the writing on the well. Streaming was the future, and CBS was an America-only brand.
So in March 2021, a pivot occurred. CBS All Access became Paramount Plus. And soon thereafter, parent company ViacomCBS transitioned into Paramount Global, taking its streaming service worldwide, taking with it exclusive content that otherwise might have remained domestic. (Some still has different global distributors, but that's another problem for another time.) Audio / Video Hulu With Live TV is one of the largest live TV streaming services (also known as a Multichannel Video Programming Distributor, or MVPD) in the United States. If you want to watch live, linear television, is an excellent option.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
