Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Anker Soundcore Liberty 4 NC review: just buy ’em By Simon Cohen Close $100.00 Thoughtful design Great sound Impressive noise-canceling Very good call quality Superb battery life Bluetooth Multipoint Mediocre transparency mode What can you expect from a $100 set of wireless earbuds ? If they’re the new Anker Soundcore Liberty 4 NC , the answer is a whole heck of a lot. Go ahead and consult your list of must-have features — I can virtually guarantee the Liberty 4 NC check all of those boxes, and then some. And unlike some other value-oriented brands, Soundcore is making real strides in its designs. The Liberty 4 NC aren’t just decent earbuds, they’re also a joy to use.
Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: design Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: comfort and fit Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: controls Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: noise-canceling and transparency Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: call quality Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: sound quality Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: battery life First, let’s address Soundcore’s somewhat-confusing naming strategy for its earbuds. The Liberty 4 NC might be newer than the 2022 Soundcore Liberty 4 ($150), but they’re actually Soundcore’s step-down model.
JLab jumps into hi-res and Bluetooth LE audio with $200 Epic Lab Edition earbuds Soundcore’s first open-ear earbuds come with an optional neckband Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Soundcore gives plenty of reasons to spend the extra $50 on the Liberty 4, like better drivers, head-tracked spatial audio , and even built-in heart-rate sensors. But if you just want to focus on getting the best earbuds for the lowest price, the Liberty 4 NC won’t leave you wishing you’d spent more. At the same time, if you like stem-based earbuds, I think the NC represent a very worthy step up from the $80 Soundcore Life P3 — I’ll explain why as we go.
Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The strides in design I mentioned earlier aren’t limited to the Liberty 4 NC themselves. Anker also has given them a fully recyclable cardboard- and paper-based package. No plastic of any kind. That’s a huge shift for a company that used to use oversized boxes, layers of plastic, embedded magnets, and glossy-coated surfaces, so I’m giving it big props.
The design improvements can also be seen in the Liberty 4 NC’s charging case. It’s not quite as slender as Apple’s AirPods cases, but it’s still reasonably pocketable. It charges wirelessly or via the included USB-C cable. What I like most is that it flips open one-handed with a press of the front button. The Liberty 4 weren’t hard to get to either, but the NC are better. There’s more space between the buds for your fingers, and there’s more of the upper portion of each earbud to grip. Extracting the earbuds is easy, but putting them back is almost easier — just get an earbud in the general vicinity of its charging socket and the magnets do the rest.
That lid-release button does triple duty: it’s also an LED indicator to show the charging status of the case, and if you press it down further, it triggers the earbuds’ Bluetooth pairing mode. If you like color choice, you’ll probably love that the NC come in white, light blue, navy blue (pictured here), pink, and black.
Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: comfort and fit Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Soundcore has kept the IPX4 water-resistance rating from its other wireless earbuds, so the same guidance applies here too: Don’t fear getting rain or sweat on them, but keep them from being submerged, and always wipe them clean and dry before putting them away.
If you want to use them for runs or workouts, they should be fine unless you need something super secure. I found them incredibly comfortable, but they did move around a little bit. Consider the Soundcore Space A40 if you need a sportier fit.
Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: controls Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Another improvement is the controls. Soundcore moved to a set of stem-based pinch controls for the Liberty 4 — which work very similarly to the controls on the Apple AirPods 3rd Gen / AirPods Pro — but the NC model sticks with touch controls. I still prefer the pinch controls, but the NC’s touch controls are excellent. They’re more responsive and easier to use than the Life P3, and they have a reassuring feedback tone when you tap correctly. As with previous Soundcore models, the app provides an impressive array of customizations, with four gestures per earbud and each can be assigned its own function.
Thanks to the new addition of wear sensors, not only can the Liberty 4 NC auto-pause and resume your tunes when you remove/replace an earbud, but you can also prevent the touch controls from responding when you’re not wearing the earbuds. It’s kind of like when a car prevents you from shifting out of park unless your foot’s on the brake.
Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: noise-canceling and transparency Simon Cohen / Digital Trends When Anker announced these earbuds, it made a pretty audacious claim for the active noise cancellation feature: They reduce ambient sound by up to 98.5%. Given that Soundcore’s ANC has always been perfectly fine, but nowhere near as good as the best noise-canceling earbuds like the Apple AirPods Pro 2 , I was skeptical. I still doubt that the Liberty 4 NC cancel almost all sounds, but I’ll tell you this: You probably won’t care. They’re that good. In comparing them to the AirPods Pro 2, I found that the Soundcores let in a little more high-frequency sound. But unless you were to do a series of A/B comparisons between the two, I don’t think you’d notice.
Anker throws in a lot of bells and whistles for its ANC mode. You can choose to use adaptive noise canceling — with or without an additional environment detection option — or use one of four transportation modes (planes, trains, buses, and cars), or you can go full manual by adjusting the amount of ANC with a slider. I only spent a bit of time playing with these, but in the end I found I was content to leave adaptive ANC on with environment detection — it seemed to produce the best results.
But here’s a tip — about tips. The free Soundcore companion app (iOS, Android) has an eartip fit test, which is handy for figuring out which of the four included sizes you should use. For me, it rated the default medium tips as an acceptable fit for my ears. However, I didn’t think ANC was especially good, so I went up a size. What a difference! In other words, regardless of what the app says, try all of the eartips until you get the best sound and noise cancellation. If there’s one thing I wish the Liberty 4 NC had, it’s a few more eartip sizes to choose from.
Transparency mode is arguably harder to do well than ANC. Getting things to sound like you aren’t actually wearing earbuds is something that only Apple has been able to achieve with consistently great results. Still, the Liberty 4 NC’s transparency is perfectly serviceable and lets in plenty of sounds so you can be aware of your surroundings, even if your own voice may not sound completely natural.
Switching between these modes is easy — a long press on the left earbud — but for some reason this control doesn’t work while on a call. If you want to do that, you need to use the app’s mode switch toggle, or end your call and start again in your preferred mode.
Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: call quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Speaking of calls, the Liberty 4 NC are very good for call quality. If loud sounds happen nearby, your voice will get heavily compressed. But that’s about the only indication that your callers will have. I had a garbage truck roll slowly past me while I was doing my test recording and there was no audible trace of it at all. Indoors, you’ll sound almost as good on these earbuds as you would on your phone’s built-in mic. You definitely don’t need to upgrade to the Liberty 4 — they perform identically.
Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Liberty 4 NC might be the formal successor to the Life P3, but their sound quality is actually much closer to the Liberty 4. Overall, I was really impressed.
They deliver a more robust and better-balanced sound signature, especially in the midbass and bass that the Life P3 lacked. From an EQ perspective, the Liberty 4 NC and Liberty 4 are nearly identical. Both offer excellent bass response and very clear and articulate mids and highs.
The Liberty 4 NC are mostly free of distortion at volume levels that can be enjoyed safely and pain-free. But those who are sensitive to sibilance may want to consider the similarly-priced Jabra Elite 4 , or the step-up Liberty 4.
Specific tuning preferences can be achieved within the Soundcore app — it has tons of EQ options. There’s a huge range of presets, a manual eight-band equalizer for custom settings, a fun 3D surround sound mode that presents a wider soundstage, plus the HearID Sound system which attempts to develop a personalized EQ for you based on your ability to perceive various frequencies. If you don’t mind spending some time in there, you can significantly alter the way the Liberty 4 NC sound.
On a set of earbuds like the Liberty 4 NC, the use of a hi-res Bluetooth codec like LDAC probably is overkill. I was hard-pressed to notice a big difference when swapping between an iPhone (AAC-only) and a Pixel 7 Pro ( LDAC ). On the other hand, because you can’t have Bluetooth Multipoint and LDAC enabled simultaneously, it wasn’t exactly easy to hear these two modes in quick succession. My advice is to pick Bluetooth Multipoint over LDAC — the convenience of having two connected devices far outweighs any benefits the higher-quality codec can offer on a day-to-day basis.
Soundcore Liberty 4 NC: battery life Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Battery life on the Liberty 4 NC is yet another area where Soundcore seems to keep finding ways to make small but meaningful improvements, especially in total playtime. The company claims you’ll get eight hours of playtime per charge with ANC turned on, with a total of 40 hours when you include the charging case. That’s considerably better than the AirPods Pro (5.5/24 hours), and even slightly better than the Soundcore Liberty 4 (7/24).
Want even longer life? Disabling ANC ups these numbers to 10/50, which is a huge amount of time before needing to find a cable. Even the quick-charge time is notable: 10 minutes in the case will extend the earbuds’ non-ANC time by four hours.
Keep in mind that these numbers are all based on listening at 50% volume. Louder levels will diminish battery life as will the use of LDAC. When both LDAC and ANC are enabled, Anker says you can expect 5/25 hours of use, which is almost exactly what I got when I was testing them.
With the Soundcore Liberty 4 NC, Anker has once again pushed our expectations for wireless earbuds that cost $100. With great battery life, noise cancellation that is way better than anything else at this price — and arguably better than what you get at double the price — plus tons of convenience features like wireless charging, Bluetooth Multipoint, wear sensors, and plenty of EQ options. I didn’t even touch on other extras like the earbuds locator, safe volume control, or gaming mode.
You may not notice much of a difference, but if you like knowing you’re getting the very best sound possible (and you’re an Android user), the addition of LDAC support is a nice touch. With their comfortable fit, accurate touch controls, and strong call quality, the Liberty 4 NC are one of the easiest wireless earbuds recommendations I can make.
Editors' Recommendations Your next noise-canceling earbuds may use Navy sonar tech Creative’s Aurvana Ace are the first wireless earbuds to use MEMS drivers Earfun Free Pro 3 wireless earbuds will make you question Apple’s prices Anker Soundcore’s Motion X500 packs spatial audio into a more portable package Samsung’s new Galaxy Buds are surprisingly affordable Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Livies (yep, that's what Olivia Rodrigo's fans are called) have something new to get excited about. The 20-year-old singer-songwriter sensation has partnered with Sony to release a limited edition of the company's LinkBuds S wireless, noise-canceling earbuds in a very Rodrigo shade of violet. Sony won't tell us how many of the LinkBuds S x Olivia Rodrigo will be made, but we know they're priced the same ($200) as the regular LinksBuds S. They're available for preorder starting September 26.
Rodrigo's recently announced world tour for her 2023 sophomore album Guts has been seeing incredible demand, with some ticket resellers commanding prices in excess of $5,000 -- reminiscent of the kind of enthusiasm shown for Taylor Swift's currently touring Eras shows. Guts is the follow-up to Rodrigo's hugely popular debut solo album, 2021's Sour.
Audio / Video Jabra Elite 10. Jabra Jabra has launched two new models of wireless earbuds -- it's new flagship, the Jabra Elite 10 ($249), and a new ultra-rugged model, the Elite 8 Active ($199) -- targeted at those with active lifestyles. Each is equipped active noise cancellation (ANC) and Dolby audio -- the Elite 8 Active get Dolby spatial sound, while the Elite 10 get Dolby Atmos with head tracking for an even more immersive listening experience.
Audio / Video Marshall's second-gen Motif ANC wireless earbuds -- appropriately called the Marshall Motif II ANC -- look exactly like the first-gen Motif, but under the hood are some welcome enhancements like better battery life, better active noise cancellation (ANC) performance, and support for Bluetooth LE Audio. The price, on the other hand, remains the same: you can buy them staring August 29 for $199 on Marshall's website. The company expects them to ship on September 12.
Marshall has a talent for understatement. Its press release for the Marshall Motif II ANC talks about the improved battery life twice -- the new earbuds now get six hours of ANC playtime on a charge and a total of 30 hours with the case (versus 4.5 and 20 on the first-gen) -- but never mentions that the new Motif now have Bluetooth Multipoint for connecting two devices simultaneously.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
