Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Audio-Technica ATH-TWX9 review: like AirPods Pro with hi-fi sound By Simon Cohen Close $299.00 Excellent sound quality Very comfy and secure fit Effective noise cancellation Keeps your voice clear (indoors) Kills bacteria with UV light Erratic multipoint behavior Limited control customization Shorter than average battery life Comparing wireless earbuds to Apple’s AirPods has become so commonplace that it’s kind of lost all meaning. But now and then a product comes along that is clearly trying to woo would-be AirPods buyers, like the Audio-Technica (A-T) ATH-TWX9.
 At $299, they’re the most premium wireless buds A-T has ever created, with a similar shape and many similar features to Apple’s $249 AirPods Pro Gen 2.
Stylish and smart So comfortable Lots of controls, limited choice Brilliant/brutal Bluetooth Sumptuous sound Noise cancellation Battery life Calling If Apple’s ubiquitous earbuds have tempted you, you owe it to yourself to consider the ATH-TWX9. Here’s why.
Apple has upgraded the AirPods Pro with lossless audio, sort of Apple AirPods Max 2: what we know, what we want, and how much it will cost Can you use AirPods Pro without eartips? The answer may surprise you Stylish and smart Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Glossy white plastic — synonymous with the AirPods — might look good and even feel good in your hands. But it comes with practical drawbacks. For one, it’s slippery. I’m not the only one who has struggled to extract a set of AirPods Pro from their charging case without dropping a bud. That glossy finish also can prevent them from staying firmly anchored once they’re in your ears. In this respect, the TWX9 are the anti-AirPods.
Their textured matte finish, which covers most of the earbuds and the high-touch surfaces of the charging case, provides just the right amount of grip without sacrificing any comfort. Fair warning though: it’s an absolute dust and fingerprint magnet. These photos are what they look like after I tried my best to remove that stuff both in real life and in software.
I’ve never come across a set of earbuds that fit me as comfortably and snugly as the TWX9.
The case itself, while not as pocketable as that of the AirPods Pro, is a study in good ergonomics. The lid opens easily and provides completely unfettered access to the earbuds, and you can charge it wirelessly or with the included USB-C cable.
The TWX9 also look the part. With their subtle, satin metallic accents and discreet Audio-Technica logos, the earbuds pull off a tricky balancing act by looking both sleek and sophisticated. Even the five-LED light bar on the front of the case feels premium, giving you an at-a-glance confirmation of case/earbuds charge levels.
Speaking of the LED lights, a few moments after replacing the buds in the case, those LEDs will turn purple and start to animate in an outward pattern. That’s how you know the case is attempting to kill off any surface bacteria with UV light. Does it work? I haven’t a clue. But it sure looks cool.
So comfortable Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I’m pretty lucky when it comes to earbuds. My ears just seem to accommodate most sizes and designs without many problems. But I’ve never come across a set of earbuds that fit me as comfortably and snugly as the TWX9. Once I twisted them into position, it was clear they weren’t going anywhere — the portion that sits in the bowl of the ear might as well have been 3D-printed for my ears. And even after hours of use, I felt no need to remove them.
Regardless of your chosen genre, the TWX9 provide a rewarding listening experience.
The default eartips created a perfect seal right from the get-go, but if they hadn’t, Audio-Technica includes an astonishing collection of 12 additional sizes and shapes, in varying widths and lengths.
With an IPX4 rating , the TWX9 aren’t exactly built for punishing workouts, but they’ll easily cope with sweat and some rain as long as you gently wipe them clean afterward.
Lots of controls, limited choice Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Most wireless earbuds give you a single control interface — a touch/squeeze sensitive area or a physical button. The TWX9 give you both: a button on each stem and a touch panel on each logo-sporting end cap. That sounds like Audio-Technica is letting you choose which style of input you prefer, but that’s not quite the case.
The stem buttons have preassigned commands for volume, playback, and calling, and these are grouped by earbud — one side gets play/pause and track skip forward/back, while the other gets volume up/down and quick hear-through mode. Both sides can handle calls. You can switch these groups from one ear to another within the Audio-Technica app, but you can’t pick which commands are controlled by which click combinations. For example, a double-click in the play/pause group is always track skip forward.
By default, the touch sensors are used to control active noise cancellation (ANC) modes, but you can change just the left sensor to trigger a voice assistant (with a choice of your phone’s native AI or Amazon’s Alexa ) or get battery level info via voice feedback. You can also disable the touch sensors completely, but this means you’ll have to control these features from your phone instead.
Learning the commands is intuitive, and the controls themselves work flawlessly. But I’m surprised that the customization is so limited, especially when it comes to ANC. It must be toggled through three modes — ANC, transparency, and off — with no ability to select from just two modes. Perhaps A-T will see fit to change this with a future firmware update.
The buds also have wear sensors, which can auto-pause and resume your music. They’re very quick, but you can disable them if you wish.
Brilliant/brutal Bluetooth Bluetooth Multipoint is a huge convenience when your days are spent bouncing from one device to another, and the A-T app makes it easy to use. One screen lets you see all previously paired devices, add a new device to the list (up to eight), and manage which of these devices are connected to the TWX9 at any given time. No more messing around inside Bluetooth menus! Another benefit of this arrangement is that if you’re connected to a computer and a smartphone simultaneously, you can continue to adjust the earbuds’ settings from the A-T app on your phone even while listening/working on your PC.
Unfortunately, the charms of multipoint were deeply undermined by the TWX9’s tendency of repeatedly alerting me that it had disconnected and reconnected to … well, it was never clear which device was causing problems. But this happened more than once and it was so annoying I had to go back to a single connection. Curiously, when I reached out to A-T with feedback on this issue, I was told that when using multipoint, communication tends to deteriorate, and there is a possibility of disconnection, “even if there is no obvious interference or the device is (sic) at a long distance.” That may be true, but this is the first time I’ve ever encountered this particular problem when using Multipoint.
Sumptuous sound Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Audio-Technica is known for its sound quality above all else, and the ATH-TWX9 keep that legacy alive. The A-T app has a customizable EQ, but I was so happy with the sound signature on these buds right out of the box that. once I satisfied myself that the EQ function worked, I turned it off and never looked back.
A-T monitor headphones like the ATH-M50x are praised for their flat or neutral EQ. But the TWX9 present a slightly more bass-forward balance, which gives these earbuds a heightened sense of immersion.
The TWX9 go above and beyond when it comes to ANC.
All of the words that reviewers use to heap praise on good headphones apply: punchy and resonant bass, detailed midtones, and crystal-clear highs are all evident from the start. The soundstage is rendered with precision. but stays very focused on the horizontal plane, even when playing 360 Reality Audio or Dolby Atmos Music tracks.
Regardless of your chosen genre, the TWX9 provide a rewarding listening experience. On a more technical level, they support up to 24-bit/96kHz playback when used with an aptX Adaptive-capable phone ( Android only), but this was one of the few times I’ve struggled to hear a difference between AAC on an iPhone and aptX Adaptive on Android.
Noise cancellation The TWX9 go above and beyond when it comes to ANC. In addition to having five discrete ANC modes for varying situations like flying in an airplane, traveling on a train or being near traffic, in an office, or at home, the A-T Connect app lets you personalize the way these modes work. A calibration process — which only takes a few seconds — analyzes how the earbuds fit your ears and adjusts accordingly. Finally, if you don’t want to use the five preset modes, you can pick an optimized mode that will take a listen to your current surroundings and pick the best level of ANC automatically. You can repeat the optimization any time from the earbuds with a long press on the right touch sensor.
I was content to stick with the optimized mode. It produced very good results each time, whether I was outside or indoors, but there was a very faint hiss when no music was playing.
Hear-through (transparency) mode worked well for hearing other sounds around me, but my own voice still sounded muffled, which kept interactions from being as natural as they are when using the AirPods Pro.
Battery life Simon Cohen / Digital Trends A-T claims a 6-hour battery life for the ATH-TWX9 when playing at moderate volumes with ANC enabled. You’ll get two full recharges in the charging case, which brings the total to around 18 hours. That’s … well, it’s not great. For this price, I’d prefer to see at least an AirPods Pro level of performance (6/24), but preferably a lot more.
Will it matter to you? That depends entirely on how much listening you do every day. For frequent travelers, it could be a problem. For an average daily commute and some time at the gym, you’re probably fine.
Calling These earbuds are terrific for phone calls and Zoom meetings — as long as you’re indoors. The mics reproduce your voice faithfully, with a quality that comes close to a dedicated wired mic. If your phone supports Snapdragon Sound , it should be even better thanks to Qualcomm’s enhanced bandwidth for voice.
Outdoors is a different story. Wind and loud sounds both play havoc with the mics. I’ve experienced this a lot: as the environmental noise cancellation software attempts to block these unwanted sounds, it’s your voice that ends up being collateral damage, fading in and out as the algorithms try (and fail) to figure out what should be kept and what should be killed.
There’s an optional sidetone adjustment that is meant to let you hear your own voice while on calls (to keep you from shouting). As with the transparency mode, it helps, but it’s not as effective as on the AirPods Pro.
Despite some Bluetooth quirks that I’m confident will be resolved with a future firmware update, and slightly anemic battery life, the Audio-Technica ATH-TWX9 are a worthy AirPods Pro alternative, offering a more comfortable and secure fit, as well as fabulous sound quality.
Editors' Recommendations JLab jumps into hi-res and Bluetooth LE audio with $200 Epic Lab Edition earbuds Skullcandy’s new earbuds mimic the AirPods Pro for just $100 Audio-Technica’s new flagship earbuds sanitize themselves after every use Focal’s first wireless headphones promise ANC and hi-fi sound for $799 Apple AirPods Pro 2 vs. Samsung Galaxy Buds 2 Pro Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video The latest AirPods Pro (now in their second generation) are the new top-shelf addition to Apple's expansive lineup of wireless earbuds. Featuring across-the-board sound and noise-cancellation improvements (according to Apple, anyway), user-specific "personalized" Spatial Audio profiles, and a new touch control for adjusting volume — plus a few other surprises — there's plenty to love about the new set of buds.
But all that begs the following question: Should you upgrade to the new AirPods Pro? Audio / Video They've done it again, folks. After a few years of wireless earbud silence, Apple is back with the unveiling of the new Apple AirPods Pro (2nd-generation). And powered by Apple's state-of-the-art H2 chip, the new AirPods Pro are far more than a simple cosmetic upgrade from their predecessor -- rather, they're a full-scale evolution.
We're talking redesigned drivers and amplifiers and H2-based processing for crisper, cleaner audio, twice the active noise-canceling abilities of the original AirPods Pro, and the handy (and much-needed) addition of a volume control command for the actual buds. That's right, Apple devotees: no more calling up Siri to adjust the volume of your music. There's plenty more to love, too, but the new AirPods Pro, priced at $250, won't be hitting shelves until September 23.
Audio / Video Nura — the Australian company behind the innovative Nuraphone headphones, which measure your ears' unique architecture in order to customize the sound — is working on new first-of-its-kind tech for its upcoming NuraTrue Pro wireless earbuds. The new buds debut today as a Kickstarter campaign. The company says the NuraTrue Pro will be the first wireless audio device (headphones or earbuds) to use Qualcomm’s aptX Lossless codec, the first codec to promise true CD-quality audio over a Bluetooth connection.
Digital Trends was offered an advanced look at the NuraTrue Pro. And while not all of the puzzle pieces are in place just yet, the picture that is coming together looks very promising. Here’s a taste of what’s to come.
Why go lossless? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
