Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Baseus Bowie MA10 review: How are these $21 wireless earbuds so good? By Simon Cohen Close $21.00 Incredibly affordable Comfy and secure fit Decent ANC Surprisingly good sound Bluetooth Multipoint Excellent water resistance Enormous battery life Huge charging case No wireless charging No wear sensors Slightly laggy controls I was so taken aback when I learned how much the Baseus Bowie MA10 cost — less than $30 on Amazon — that my prejudice kicked in hard. In my experience, cheap can often mean OK. But it seldom means good, and it rarely means great.
Wild claims backed up Excellent sound for the price You can’t go wrong But I have to admit that these earbuds, which I’ve been testing for the past two weeks, are not only better than the Apple AirPods , they also have me questioning why anyone should spend more than $50 on any wireless earbuds.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Wild claims backed up For the price — Amazon lists them at “retail” at $50, but you know how Amazon goes — Baseus’ claims for the Bowie MA10 are wild: hybrid active noise canceling (ANC), transparency mode, “a listening experience as immersive as being in a recording studio,” good call quality, IPX6 water resistance , customizable EQ and controls, a low-latency mode, an earbud finder, Bluetooth Multipoint, and a massive 140 hours of total battery life.
JLab jumps into hi-res and Bluetooth LE audio with $200 Epic Lab Edition earbuds Earfun Free Pro 3 wireless earbuds will make you question Apple’s prices JLab’s tiny JBuds Mini wireless earbuds are the smallest we’ve ever seen What’s even more wild is that save for the exception of the transparency mode, the Bowie MA10 get these features right. They don’t just work — they work well.
Granted, the design isn’t going to win any awards for beauty or originality, and the Bowie MA10 are standard fare for in-ear type earbuds. Their charging case is big and bulky compared to most other models — and also heavy at 3.7 ounces (the Apple AirPods 3 case weighs half that). But both the earbuds and case feel well-built. The case lid and hinge, which can often feel flimsy even on much more expensive products, are robust. Thanks to the mechanism and the magnets, the lid stays open when you need it to and snaps closed securely.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I found the earbuds surprisingly comfy and secure. Baseus includes three sizes of eartips, plus three sizes of wingtips, which help to lock the earbuds into place when you give them a twist. They may not be quite as unshakeable as an earhook-based design like on the Beats Powerbeats Pro , but they offer just as much stability as the Beats Fit Pro , so, by all means, use them for your workouts.
The Bowie MA10, like most wireless earbuds, use touch controls. With their large, smooth surfaces, the controls are easy to hit accurately, but they take some getting used to. There’s a second or so of lag time between when you tap and when you get a confirmation tone, which I found a bit annoying at first.
The controls can be customized in the Baseus app ( iOS / Android ). You get three gestures per earbud: double-tap, triple-tap, and a long-press. Of these, the double-tap and long-press can be assigned a different function on each earbud, but the triple-tap must always trigger the same function. This combo doesn’t give you quite enough flexibility to control everything from the earbuds. For example, if you want play/pause, track skipping, ANC control, and voice assistant access, you’ll need to forgo volume control and the ability to turn on low-latency mode, but you can definitely get by that way.
ANC isn’t up to the lofty standards set by Apple, Sony, and Bose, but it does work. You’ll notice a considerable reduction in background noise when compared to ANC-off. Better yet, it doesn’t introduce any low-level hiss, which is a common side effect of poorly implemented ANC. Wind noise can be a problem, so these might not be the best choice for running or cycling. The Baseus app even gives you a choice of ANC scenarios like commuting, indoor, and outdoor, plus a manual mode. Running in manual, with the setting on maximum, worked best for me.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Transparency mode is a mixed bag. If what you need is to be aware of your surroundings for safety purposes, it works well. If what you want is to hear your own voice clearly for conversations or phone calls, that’s definitely not the Bowie MA10’s strong suit — I found almost no difference between ANC and transparency from that point of view.
Switching ANC modes is a bit of a chore. As with the other functions, it takes a second or two to happen and you’re forced to hear a poorly recorded voice announce the mode changes (“A-N-C on/off,” “transparent,” — these can’t be disabled), And there’s no way to choose just two of these modes when switching, so you have to cycle from ANC off to transparency to ANC on and back again.
As surprising as it is to get both ANC and transparency on a set of sub-$50 earbuds, it’s even more surprising that the Bowie MA10 have Bluetooth Multipoint for connecting two devices simultaneously. A year ago, even Sony’s flagship WF-1000XM4 earbuds didn’t have this handy feature. And it mostly works exactly as it should — pause the tunes on your first device, then hit play on your second device, and the earbuds switch over seamlessly. However, I found that sometimes when connected to two devices, the earbuds would give me the double-chirp tone that indicates a second device connected long after I had performed that connection.
Excellent sound for the price At this point, you’re probably waiting for the obvious cheap earbud pitfall: sound quality. And yet, somehow the Bowie MA10 sound far better than their price would suggest. No, they won’t make you want to abandon a premium set of earbuds, but I was shocked at how well they compared to the $100 Jabra Elite 4.
 The Bowie MA10 get louder, they have more powerful bass, and on tracks like Vampire Weekend’s Harmony Hall , they present a wider, more immersive soundstage. I listened to podcasts, jazz, hard rock, and pop, and all I kept thinking was, how are these things just $20 or so? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The worst thing I can say about them is that there’s a tiny bit of distortion that creeps into the midrange. But in fairness, I only noticed that after tweaking the EQ settings manually in the app (yet another feature that is a rarity on budget earbuds).
Is there more to say about the Bowie MA10? Incredibly, yes. Call quality is yet another area where these earbuds punch well above their weight. Background noise was well controlled, and the resulting compression of my voice wasn’t a major problem for intelligibility. When things got quiet, these earbuds performed really well, with clarity and almost no distortion at all.
Baseus Bowie MA10 (left) and Jabra Elite 4.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends And then there’s the battery life. With a claimed 8 hours per charge in the earbuds, that already puts the Bowie MA10 in the upper segment for wireless earbuds. But when you consider the absolutely massive power bank sitting in the charging case (it can recharge the earbuds 15 times before needing to be recharged itself), you’re just left scratching your head in wonder. Could Baseus make a smaller version with only three or four recharges in the case and put an even lower price on them? That prospect boggles the mind. Oh, and there’s also a rapid-charge feature that will extend listening time by two hours after 10 minutes.
The Baseus app will also let you keep tabs on your earbuds’ location and get them to emit a loud beeping sound to help you find them under a couch cushion.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends You can’t go wrong There are two quick caveats that are worth mentioning. First, that price. When Baseus reached out to me, it said the Bowie MA10 cost $21. And yet, both Amazon and Baseus’ website list the regular price of the Bowie MA10 as $50. Amazon then shows a limited-time deal price of $27, which can be further reduced to $21 with a coupon. This gave me pause — can we really say these are $21 earbuds if such deep and limited-time discounts are how we get to that price? However, my contact at Baseus assured me that the company intends on keeping these discounts active indefinitely. Worst-case scenario, should Amazon prevent the coupon portion from continuing, I wouldn’t change my opinion on the value here even if the price were $27.
Second, the earbuds have a bit of a quirk when it comes to powering them down. In order to fully turn them off and disconnect them from your phone, they must be seated correctly in the charging case, and the lid must be closed. If either of these isn’t true, they won’t power down.
Even if the Bowie MA10 only had some of the features and performance they offer at double the price, they’d be a helluva good value. But given that they far exceed any other earbuds at this price, if you’re looking for an ultra-affordable set of wireless earbuds and you don’t mind their big charging case, you just can’t go wrong.
Editors' Recommendations Your next noise-canceling earbuds may use Navy sonar tech Creative’s Aurvana Ace are the first wireless earbuds to use MEMS drivers Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Jabra’s latest wireless earbuds have Dolby spatial audio Marshall updates its noise-canceling earbuds with better battery life Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Finding the best wireless earbuds for you can be tricky business. There are dozens of brands and models out there, and you've got specific needs. To get to the crux of the issue, you need to ask yourself a few things: First, you need to prioritize your primary uses for them — these could be listening to music, commuting, working out, long flights, video calling, or multitasking at work. This will help you determine whether you should put features like active noise canceling (ANC) and transparency mode above or below things like sound quality, battery life, comfort, and Bluetooth multipoint connectivity. Once you have a clear idea of what you want, you can then take into account your budget and slot in the pairs that fit the bill.
That's where this list of the best wireless earbuds comes in. We test a boatload of wireless earbuds. And the ones that really stand out from the crowd in terms of value, performance, and features are assembled right here.
Audio / Video As the Barenaked Ladies famously sang, it's been one week. One week since Digital Trends and the rest of the techno-review world published the first reviews of the Sony WF-1000XM5 wireless noise-canceling earbuds. Or at least, these were supposed to be the first reviews. As it turned out -- and at first unbeknownst to any of these publications -- Sony didn't send out full production versions of the XM5. Though they looked exactly like the earbuds that you can buy today, they were unfinalized prototypes. We were clear about that at the time, and we want to be as transparent about things now.
Once Sony confirmed we'd initially been given prototype units, we published a sort of placeholder review that was heavily caveated to explain the situation to readers. One week later, Sony sent out full production XM5 units, and we've since updated our review with our final thoughts using production units — the same as what you can buy today. (Spoiler: The production units solved all the problems we saw with the prototypes.) Audio / Video While most of the attention these days is on true wireless earbuds, it's easy to forget that some folks much prefer the older neckband style for its simple convenience and longer battery life. Beyerdynamic clearly hasn't forgotten. Despite launching its first true wireless earbuds in 2022 -- the Free Byrd -- the company is continuing to develop its original Blue Byrd neckband-style buds with the introduction of the second-gen Blue Byrd ANC ($149).
As the name suggests, the new earbuds have active noise cancellation (ANC), a feature that remains fairly rare in the neckband earbuds category. You can buy them now from Beyerdynamic or Amazon.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
