Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Beats Studio Buds+ review: clearly better buds By Simon Cohen Close $170.00 Very comfortable Great battery life Excellent noise canceling Solid call quality Clear transparency mode No wireless charging No Bluetooth Multipoint No EQ controls Amazon’s inadvertent product listing for the Beats Studio Buds+ turned out to be absolutely accurate. The new wireless earbuds , which are now available for $170, are being positioned not so much as an update to the original Beats Studio Buds, but as an in-between product that offers more than the Studio Buds, but less than the more recent $200 Beats Fit Pro.
 And that’s a bit weird.
What’s changed? ANC, transparency, and sound quality Weird in the sense that the Studio Buds+ have a lot of improvements over the original Studio Buds.
 But instead of introducing them as a second-gen device and charging the same amount of money, Beats has chosen to charge $20 more for the Buds+ and sell them alongside the original Buds, at least for now.
JLab jumps into hi-res and Bluetooth LE audio with $200 Epic Lab Edition earbuds Earfun Free Pro 3 wireless earbuds will make you question Apple’s prices What is ANC and how do noise-cancelling headphones work? So the question is do you spend a little more for the improvements? Or save a little and stick with regular Buds? Spoiler: I think you should spend the extra $20.
What’s changed? Beats Studio Buds in red and Studio Buds+ in transparent.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I’ll get into all of the details, but here’s a TL;DR in case you’re in a hurry.
Improved battery life (36 total hours versus 24 hours) Better active noise cancellation (ANC) Better transparency Better call quality Redesigned controls and acoustics $20 more What’s crazy about the Beats Studio Buds+ is that — if you ignore the wild new transparent color option — they look virtually identical to the Studio Buds. And yet Beats claims that 95% of the internal components in both the buds and the case are new. That goes for the batteries, the microphones, and even the multifunction buttons.
Single Beats Studio Buds+ (transparent) next to a Studio Bud.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sure enough, if you look closely, you can see that the buttons now sit almost flush with the edges of the earbuds, instead of being perched on top. Beats says this new design reduces unintentional clicks and I concur; accidental presses are now very rare.
You still get IPX4 water resistance — good enough for workouts if you clean them after — and thankfully, the excellent ergonomics of the originals have been preserved. These remain some of the most comfortable in-ear buds I have ever worn. More people will be likely to agree — you get four sizes of silicone eartips to choose from, instead of three, including a set of extra-small tips.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sadly, Beats hasn’t carried over the ear fit test function from the Fit Pro, so finding that perfect fit will be a bit of trial and error.
Battery life has been substantially improved. Not so much on a per-charge basis, which only goes up by an extra hour when not using ANC (9 hours versus 8), but absolutely on the total battery life, which jumps from 24 to 36 hours. In other words, the case now holds three full charges instead of the previous two. As before, a 5-minute quick charge will buy you an extra hour of playtime, and also as before, your playtime will be heavily reduced when using ANC or transparency (down to six hours).
Speaking of the case: No, it doesn’t do wireless charging; yes, it has the same physical dimensions as the original; no, you can’t put the Buds+ inside the original case or vice versa. I mean, you can — they’ll fit — but they won’t charge. The Buds+ emitted an unhappy squawk when I tried. That means you won’t be able to amp up the total time of your Studio Buds by buying a Studio Buds+ replacement case.
Whether you like the new transparent color option or not (you can also get the Buds+ in ivory and a black/gold combo), it has one big advantage: the scratches and marring that will inevitably accumulate over time will be much harder to see.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends ANC, transparency, and sound quality ANC hasn’t just been improved a little — it’s been improved a lot. Beats says it’s 160% better, but I’m inclined to say 200%. It’s better than the Fit Pro, way better than the original Beats Studio Buds, and it comes within spitting distance of the Apple AirPods Pro 2.
 Let me be clear: this one improvement alone is worth the extra $20 if quiet is what you crave.
Transparency mode is also excellent, at least when it comes to hearing the outside world. Once you start to speak, you realize it’s not quite as magical as the AirPods Pro 2, but for the price, it’s superb.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Improved ANC and transparency performance are the direct result of having better mics and better noise-processing algorithms, so it was no surprise when I discovered that call quality is improved. The original Studio Buds are good indoors, and you can use them in a pinch when outside, but frankly your callers might wish that you didn’t. The Studio Buds+, by comparison, might not even give away the fact that you’re outside. They do an amazing job of keeping competing sounds from making their way to the other end of the call. Your voice won’t always remain stable at times when those sounds get loud, but it’s only a mild case of wobbliness. Short of taking a Teams call next to an active construction site, you should be good to go.
Sound quality is the one area where the Studio Buds+ offer only tiny enhancements, which makes sense — of the 95% new components, the drivers are one of the only parts that were preserved from the original product. If you have the original Studio Buds and you like their sound signature, you’ll really like the Studio Buds+ too — they sound very close. They have that same energetic tuning that lets the highs sparkle with excellent clarity. The soundstage is where you may notice the difference. I think the Studio Buds+ might have a touch more detail and precision, and there’s a slightly more immersive quality to the overall presentation, but we’re talking a 5% difference at the most.
Beats (like Apple itself) is steadfastly sticking to its guns on Bluetooth codec support. You won’t find aptX, LDAC, or any other high-quality codecs beyond SBC and AAC. Would they make a big difference if they were available? Maybe. But for day-to-day listening, I don’t think it matters.
I still found myself wishing for an EQ adjustment, and getting sufficiently strong bass response requires a combination of the right eartips and the right angle when you insert the buds — get either of these wrong and you’ll wonder why anyone would give these things a good review. Get them right and bass will still be on the conservative side (weird given Beats’ traditional strength with hip-hop, rap, and other bass-forward genres), but it will be enough to enjoy a wide variety of musical tastes.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Despite being an Apple-owned brand, Beats products play nicely with Android phones as well as those from Apple. The buds support Google Fast Pair and there’s a dedicated Beats app for Android. It doesn’t offer much in the way of adjustments — it lets you rename the Buds and get software updates, and you can change the default behavior of the press-and-hold gesture from ANC control to volume control — but it’s better than the alternative (there is no Android app for Apple’s AirPods family).
There’s even the ability to manage multiple device connections without needing to use the Bluetooth menu, but this is highly ecosystem-dependent. In the Apple world, you can quickly and easily switch between Apple devices if you’re signed into iCloud. In the Android world, the same is true for Google account holders. This also gives you access to Google’s Locate My Device feature. However, if you want true Bluetooth Multipoint , e.g., an iPhone and a Windows PC connected simultaneously, you’re out of luck.
We can debate whether or not Beats should have simply introduced the Beats Studio Buds+ as the new Studio Buds and kept the price the same. We can also debate whether or not $170 is a fair price to pay for a set of earbuds like the Beats Studio Buds+ when there are very good alternatives like the $150 Jabra Elite 5 or the $150 Anker Soundcore Liberty 4.
 I can see strong points in both discussions, especially as both of these products have two features I really wish the Buds+ had: wireless charging and wear sensors.
But if you want to know if you should spend $150 on the Studio Buds or $20 more on the Studio Buds+, I’m unequivocal: just do it.
Editors' Recommendations Your next noise-canceling earbuds may use Navy sonar tech Creative’s Aurvana Ace are the first wireless earbuds to use MEMS drivers Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Samsung’s new Galaxy Buds are surprisingly affordable Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Beats is a popular choice whenever there are headphone deals and true wireless earbuds deals because the brand promises stylish designs and incredible sound quality. Beats headphone deals almost always get sold out quickly though, so if you're on the hunt for them, you should check out the top offers that we've rounded up right here. You're going to have to choose from these bargains quickly as we're not sure how long they'll remain available.
Beats Flex wireless earbuds -- $49, was $70 If you're concerned that you'll lose true wireless earbuds, then go for the Beats Flex wireless earbuds. They're connected by a Flex-Form cable that will hang on your neck if the wireless earbuds fall out of your ears, and they come with four eartip options so you can choose the most comfortable fit. The Beats Flex can last up to 12 hours on a single charge, and they come with on-device controls for music playback, calls, and voice assistants.
Audio / Video Livies (yep, that's what Olivia Rodrigo's fans are called) have something new to get excited about. The 20-year-old singer-songwriter sensation has partnered with Sony to release a limited edition of the company's LinkBuds S wireless, noise-canceling earbuds in a very Rodrigo shade of violet. Sony won't tell us how many of the LinkBuds S x Olivia Rodrigo will be made, but we know they're priced the same ($200) as the regular LinksBuds S. They're available for preorder starting September 26.
Rodrigo's recently announced world tour for her 2023 sophomore album Guts has been seeing incredible demand, with some ticket resellers commanding prices in excess of $5,000 -- reminiscent of the kind of enthusiasm shown for Taylor Swift's currently touring Eras shows. Guts is the follow-up to Rodrigo's hugely popular debut solo album, 2021's Sour.
Audio / Video Sennheiser's new Accentum wireless noise-canceling headphones look a lot like its top-of-the-line $380 Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless headphones. And while they have similar features, the Accentum are priced at $180 and can do something the Momentum 4 can't: they accept lossless digital audio via their USB-C port. The black version is up for preorder on September 25 and is expected to ship starting on October 4, while the white version begins shipping in late November. Both models will be available at select retailers and at sennheiser-hearing.com.
The Accentum are the successors to Sennheiser's 2020 HD 450 BT, and the company's approach to this more affordable product line remains the same -- preserve as many features from the Momentum line as possible while keeping the price under $200. Needless to say, you can't do this without some trade-offs. The Accentum don't come with a carry case or any kind of analog input. They use only physical controls, not touch controls, and they don't have wear sensors for auto-pausing your tunes when you remove them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
