Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Earfun Air Pro 3 review: three is a magic number By Simon Cohen Close $80.00 Very comfortable Big, dynamic sound Customizable controls Bluetooth Multipoint Great battery life No wear sensors So-so noise canceling Imprecise touch controls Earfun’s latest wireless earbuds, the $80 Earfun Air Pro 3, prove yet again that you don’t have to spend Apple amounts of money for a great noise-canceling wireless audio experience.
If it ain’t broke … Dazzling Bluetooth ANC at a nice price Excellent value Packed with features — some of which are so leading edge you can’t use them yet — and great sound quality, you’ve got to get out a microscope to find a reason not to buy them if you’re looking to spend less than $100. Here’s why I like them so much.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If it ain’t broke … Design-wise, Earfun takes an if-it-ain’t-broke approach to the Air Pro 3, with a stem-based shape that looks a lot like the company’s previous Air/Air Pro models. This time, however, the earbuds have an even more refined silhouette, with an elegant silver-blue top cap that helps alleviate the monotony of the all-black plastic look we usually see on these products.
JLab jumps into hi-res and Bluetooth LE audio with $200 Epic Lab Edition earbuds Earfun Free Pro 3 wireless earbuds will make you question Apple’s prices What is ANC and how do noise-cancelling headphones work? They continue another Earfun tradition too: they’re super comfortable. Stem-based buds don’t always score highly when it comes to keeping them locked in place, but I had no issues with the Air Pro 3 popping out of place, especially once I bumped up to the largest size of eartips (there are four sizes to choose from). Their IPX5 water-resistance rating shouldn’t be tested in showers or pools, but you’ve got no reason to fear heavy sweat or rain as long as you wipe them clean before putting them away.
Earfun sticks them in a simple, wirelessly charging case that sports a wide opening and a lid that opens (and stays open) with ease. It may not be as small as flip-top charging cases (e.g., AirPods ), but if you’ve ever fumbled with getting buds in and out of those designs, the Air Pro 3 case will make you wonder if size really matters.
Fans of big, bold sound are going to love the Air Pro 3.
Touch controls can be a bit hit-and-miss, and there were times when my taps weren’t always recognized. I chalk this up to the relatively small target area (the little circles at the tops of the stems). On the other hand, Earfun’s recently released app for iOS and Android lets you choose what each tap gesture does, so if you find a single tap easier to perform than multiple taps, you can assign your most-used functions accordingly. There are a total of eight, and they can be used to control any function you like — even volume and changing the earbuds to their low-latency game mode.
There are only two missing features: the buds don’t have wear sensors, so you’ll have to pause the music manually, and you can’t choose to toggle between just active noise canceling (ANC) and transparency modes (you have to rotate through the “off” mode too).
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Dazzling Bluetooth When it comes to Air Pro 3’s Bluetooth specs, prepare to be dazzled. Earfun claims these are the first wireless earbuds priced under $100 to support the new Bluetooth LE Audio standard. along with its new LC3 codec. They’re also ready to support the soon-to-be-released Auracast feature that essentially turns your compatible phone into a Bluetooth radio station that can broadcast to anyone within Bluetooth range. Throw in Qualcomm’s aptX Adaptive codec for up to 24-bit/48kHz (lossy) hi-res audio, and Bluetooth Multipoint for dual simultaneous connections, and there’s nothing left to wish for.
I found them easy to pair, Multipoint worked like a charm, and they gave me a very acceptable wireless range both indoors and outdoors.
Fans of big, bold sound are going to love the Air Pro 3. Earfun has tuned these buds with a bass-forward, punchy signature that’s especially well-suited to modern music trends. It’s a more assertive sound than the company’s previous models, so you may find yourself reaching for the Earfun app’s built-in EQ adjustments if it proves too much. Out of the box, the EQ feels hot right across the frequencies, something that’s bound to make audiophiles flinch. But judicious use of the six-band equalizer can help settle things down. Once I got things dialed in, the Air Pro 3 proved to be a very enjoyable listen with a generous soundstage and plenty of detail.
If you want something with a more neutral sound for this price, check out the very good Jabra Elite 3.
I noticed a slight difference when switching between AAC on an iPhone and aptX Adaptive on a Xiaomi 12 Pro (the Xiaomi offered a bit more nuance), but I really had to focus to hear it — iPhone users have no reason to feel left out.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends ANC at a nice price As with many earbuds these days, the Air Pro 3 have ANC, which is a nice addition, especially when you consider their sub-$100 price. But don’t expect anything like the kind of silence you’ll get from more expensive models. ANC mode definitely reduces external noise, but it tends to do most of the work in the lower frequencies. It;s not bad for blocking out some of the droning sound of a fan, or airplane engines, but it won’t do much to prevent voices or the barking of dogs from being heard. Still, if your goal is to be able to hear your podcasts while walking busy streets (without cranking the volume to dangerous levels), it will definitely help.
Transparency mode is similar — it’s enough to help you stay aware of sounds that might be potential threats (traffic, etc.), but you may find that conversations are still much easier if you just remove the buds altogether.
I’ve always found Earfun earbuds surprisingly good for call quality, and the Air Pro 3 are no exception. The mics have excellent pickup and produce a very clear reproduction of your voice, even in conditions that have challenged more expensive products. Still, your best bet is to find a quiet spot for your calls — the noise-canceling algorithms are good, but not great.
Excellent value Battery life on the Air Pro 3 is another bright spot. Earfun claims you’ll get nine hours per charge and 45 hours total playtime with the charging case if you keep ANC disabled, and 7/37 if you keep it turned on. In reality, expect a little less than this, particularly if you listen above 50% volume level. Regardless, these are excellent numbers that will keep your tunes going for much longer than other ANC earbuds. It takes an hour to fully charge the buds in the case, which is the equivalent of about 1.5 hours of playtime for a 10-minute charge (ANC off).
If any of this sounds familiar, you may have noticed that the Air Pro 3, both in their features and price, are incredibly close to the $80 Soundcore Life P3.
 However, the Life P3 are now almost two years old and, even though they’re still a solid choice, the Air Pro 3 offer better battery life and call quality, as well as features like Multipoint.
Once again, Earfun has proven that a fat wallet is not a prerequisite for a great set of daily-wear wireless earbuds. The Air Pro 3 are extremely comfortable, they come with features that are useful right now, as well as a few that will prove handy in the future (like Auracast), and they deliver a dynamic sound that competes with models that cost a good deal more. That’s a lot to like in a set of budget-friendly buds.
Editors' Recommendations Your next noise-canceling earbuds may use Navy sonar tech Creative’s Aurvana Ace are the first wireless earbuds to use MEMS drivers Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Samsung’s new Galaxy Buds are surprisingly affordable Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Earfun, a company known primarily for its ultra-affordable yet high-quality wireless earbuds and Bluetooth speakers, has launched two new products designed to get folks into the world of hi-res audio at a fraction of the price that its competitors charge. The Earfun EH100 ($100) are a set of triple-driver in-ear monitors (IEMs) with swappable tuning nozzles and the Earfun EA100 ($80) is a tiny digital-to-analog converter (DAC) and headphone amp with dual headphone jacks for both balanced and unbalanced connections.
These are already pretty affordable prices, however, between October 2 and October 15, you can buy one or both at a significant discount. The price for each product has been discounted by 30% ($70 for the EH100 and $56 for the EA100), or you can buy them as a bundle and save 35% ($117 for the EH100 and EA100).
Audio / Video Livies (yep, that's what Olivia Rodrigo's fans are called) have something new to get excited about. The 20-year-old singer-songwriter sensation has partnered with Sony to release a limited edition of the company's LinkBuds S wireless, noise-canceling earbuds in a very Rodrigo shade of violet. Sony won't tell us how many of the LinkBuds S x Olivia Rodrigo will be made, but we know they're priced the same ($200) as the regular LinksBuds S. They're available for preorder starting September 26.
Rodrigo's recently announced world tour for her 2023 sophomore album Guts has been seeing incredible demand, with some ticket resellers commanding prices in excess of $5,000 -- reminiscent of the kind of enthusiasm shown for Taylor Swift's currently touring Eras shows. Guts is the follow-up to Rodrigo's hugely popular debut solo album, 2021's Sour.
Audio / Video Sennheiser's new Accentum wireless noise-canceling headphones look a lot like its top-of-the-line $380 Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless headphones. And while they have similar features, the Accentum are priced at $180 and can do something the Momentum 4 can't: they accept lossless digital audio via their USB-C port. The black version is up for preorder on September 25 and is expected to ship starting on October 4, while the white version begins shipping in late November. Both models will be available at select retailers and at sennheiser-hearing.com.
The Accentum are the successors to Sennheiser's 2020 HD 450 BT, and the company's approach to this more affordable product line remains the same -- preserve as many features from the Momentum line as possible while keeping the price under $200. Needless to say, you can't do this without some trade-offs. The Accentum don't come with a carry case or any kind of analog input. They use only physical controls, not touch controls, and they don't have wear sensors for auto-pausing your tunes when you remove them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
