Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Final Audio ZE8000 review: distinctive earbuds for discerning ears By Simon Cohen Close $349.00 Eye-catching, distinctive design Very comfortable Warm, audiophile-grade sound Decent noise-canceling Fewer features than similar products Underwhelming battery life Boutique Japanese audio maker Final Audio has a small, but very loyal fan base thanks to the company’s work in the wired in-ear monitor (IEM) space, where it sells beautifully designed, high-performance earbuds that cost as much as $2,100. But it has also been taking steps to offer its customers the convenience of wireless earbuds at prices that are considerably more accessible.
A truly unique design Unusual eartips Impressive performance App weirdness ANC, calling, and more Unique, but lacking When compared to those sky-high IEMs, its newest product — the Final Audio ZE8000 — are far less expensive. But at $349, don’t call them affordable. Price-wise, they’re near the top of the true wireless world.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends A truly unique design If nothing else, your investment will be rewarded with a truly unique-looking set of buds, whether you get them in white or black. Their bar-and-circle shape has a distinctly sculptural quality to it. Get closer and you notice that the plastic has a textured finish that shutterbugs might find familiar. It’s the same texture you’ll find on some Nikon and Canon camera bodies. Final Audio calls it a “Shibo” finish. Shibo, in Japanese, means “a wrinkle on the surface of paper or leather,” and it’s meant to provide a better grip without adding roughness or rubberiness.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Unusual eartips Also unusual is the eartip. Most wireless earbuds only put silicone or foam on the very end of the horn (the part that travels deeper into your ear). By contrast, the ZE8000 covers the entire portion of the housing that makes contact with your ear in a single silicone sleeve. This creates a surprising amount of grip without sacrificing any comfort. You get five sizes to choose from, which should make it easy for most people to get a good fit. In the box, you’ll also find a USB-C charging cable and small metal rod. This is used to help you replace the dust filters at the very tips of the earbud nozzles. I didn’t try swapping them; it looks like very fiddly work.
JLab jumps into hi-res and Bluetooth LE audio with $200 Epic Lab Edition earbuds Earfun Free Pro 3 wireless earbuds will make you question Apple’s prices The best open-ear earbuds and headphones for 2023 Normally, you need a good fit for a set of earbuds to give you the best sound and, if they’re equipped with active noise cancellation (ANC), the best reduction in outside noise. However, on the ZE8000, getting that perfect fit can be challenging. The tricky part is that you need to untrain yourself from jamming them into your ears as deeply as you can. Do that and they may feel fine, but sound quality will suffer enormously.
Instead, the ZE8000 require a degree of restraint. Gently inserting them, with a very slight twist — and stopping as soon as you meet some resistance — is the key. If things sound muffled, or the bass response feels thin, try switching eartips or placing the earbuds slightly shallower than you might normally think to do.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Impressive performance Once you get them seated in their sweet spot, you’ll be treated to an impressive performance that rivals the best wireless earbuds in terms of soundstage and precision. What really sets the ZE8000 apart, though, is their natural-sounding frequency response and smoothness. Unlike so many other earbuds that tend to emphasize (some might say overemphasize) parts of the sound like bass and treble, the ZE8000 sound more like a full-frequency set of speakers. Their ability to reproduce all aspects of your music needs no extra help. The bass is rich and resonant, giving the sound an easy warmth. The mids are clear and distinct, but it’s the highs you notice most. Instead of sitting on top, demanding your attention, they smoothly extend out from the upper mids.
If you’re coming from a set of earbuds like the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II , it can be an unnerving experience. My first reaction was, wait, where did the high-end go? But once you give yourself a few minutes to adjust to the acoustics, that’s when it hits you: as fun as it can be to listen to a set of earbuds that magnify certain sounds, it can also be tiring. The ZE8000 are just a more relaxed way to listen.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Final Audio uses a 13mm-equivalent aluminum-magnesium dome dynamic driver and a class AB amplifier inside each earbud — exotic, audiophile ingredients that likely play a significant role in the ZE8000’s sound. AB amps are known for their ultralow distortion, and the proof is right here. Roll the volume on the ZE8000 as high as you like. Things just get louder (and arguably better), without a hint of harshness or distortion. Try that with the $399 Bowers & Wilkins Pi7 S2 and you’ll be wincing by the time you get to 80%. On the other hand, the AB amp seems to dislike low volume levels as much as it loves the highs: in a perfect world, you’d listen at no less than 60% volume.
If you’re an Android user with aptX Adaptive on your phone, you’re in for a treat.
Bluetooth codecs don’t make much of a difference when using inexpensive earbuds, but with the ZE8000, the difference is noticeable. I heard greater dynamic range and more detail when using aptX Adaptive over the iPhone’s AAC.
App weirdness Inside the app, you’ll find two ways to adjust the sound. Or at least, two ways that might let you adjust the sound.
There’s a feature that Final Audio calls 8K Sound, which purportedly upscales the audio resolution. In theory, it could offer the same thing as Sony’s DSEE, which helps reconstruct some of the missing info from highly compressed audio files. In reality, I couldn’t tell the difference between 8K Sound when it was on or off, regardless of what I was listening to.
A five-band equalizer can also be used for custom tuning, but it’s super weird. Each of the five slider adjustments has its own subset of frequencies. The lowest slider, for instance, lets you access 35, 60, 110, and 220Hz frequencies — yet only one of these can be altered. When you find a tweak you like, you can save it, however, any further changes you make will overwrite it. The strange thing is that I simply couldn’t hear the difference that any EQ adjustments might have made. It’s as if the EQ settings just weren’t being applied.
ANC, calling, and more ANC on the ZE8000 is good — it helps to block much of the external sounds that can interfere with your music or podcasts, and it even generates some much-needed quiet when you’re in noisy locations.
A separate wind-noise reduction mode is helpful when there’s a breeze, however, it only works for ANC — calls are another story.
Transparency mode is about average for wireless earbuds. It definitely lets in enough of the outside world for the purposes of staying aware of possible hazards like traffic, but your own voice will remain fairly muffled.
Calling on the ZE8000 is something that should be done indoors, where your callers will clearly hear your voice. Outside, all bets are off. Even the slightest breeze will be picked up by the mics, and your voice will be in near-constant battle with other sounds. Most of the time, those sounds will win.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The touch controls on the ZE8000 work well, and despite the fact that only the portion of the bar that intersects with the body of the earbud is touch-sensitive, I had no problems getting taps to register accurately. You can’t change the gestures, but for the most part, they’re easy to remember and you get access to every feature, including volume control.
The only command that requires some real patience is voice command access: it takes five taps to trigger it.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Unique, but lacking The earbuds come in a large charging case with a slider lid. It’s well-built and the large opening provided by that slider mechanism makes it very easy to get the ZE8000 in and out. Unfortunately, it’s far too big to fit comfortably in a pocket — it will have to live in a purse, backpack, or other carrier. It also lacks wireless charging, which is surprising at this price, though not unique: the $299 Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II and $299 Master & Dynamic MW08 won’t charge wirelessly either.
The earbuds also lack some refinements I’ve become used to, like wear sensors and Bluetooth Multipoint support. They’ve got some water resistance, though at just IPX4 , you may not want to test it beyond a sweaty run or gym workout.
Battery life is another weakness. Final Audio claims five hours per charge for the buds, which is OK, but not great. It’s the case that really disappoints. Its large size wasn’t used to house a big battery: you can only recharge the ZE8000 twice, for a total of 15 hours of use before needing to plug it in. Keep in mind, 15 hours is an approximate number. If you listen at volumes louder than 50%, as I expect you will want to do, you may get as few as 13 hours total.
At $349, the Final Audio ZE8000 aren’t super-compelling as high-tech wireless buds. They lack a lot of bells and whistles that can be found on other premium earbuds that cost less. But if you’re an audiophile in search of top-notch wireless sound, the ZE8000 deserve serious consideration. They’re stylish and comfortable, and their ANC is robust enough to help reduce most annoying noises. Most importantly, they sound like no other earbuds on the market.
Editors' Recommendations Your next noise-canceling earbuds may use Navy sonar tech Creative’s Aurvana Ace are the first wireless earbuds to use MEMS drivers Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Samsung’s new Galaxy Buds are surprisingly affordable Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Earfun, a company known primarily for its ultra-affordable yet high-quality wireless earbuds and Bluetooth speakers, has launched two new products designed to get folks into the world of hi-res audio at a fraction of the price that its competitors charge. The Earfun EH100 ($100) are a set of triple-driver in-ear monitors (IEMs) with swappable tuning nozzles and the Earfun EA100 ($80) is a tiny digital-to-analog converter (DAC) and headphone amp with dual headphone jacks for both balanced and unbalanced connections.
These are already pretty affordable prices, however, between October 2 and October 15, you can buy one or both at a significant discount. The price for each product has been discounted by 30% ($70 for the EH100 and $56 for the EA100), or you can buy them as a bundle and save 35% ($117 for the EH100 and EA100).
Audio / Video Livies (yep, that's what Olivia Rodrigo's fans are called) have something new to get excited about. The 20-year-old singer-songwriter sensation has partnered with Sony to release a limited edition of the company's LinkBuds S wireless, noise-canceling earbuds in a very Rodrigo shade of violet. Sony won't tell us how many of the LinkBuds S x Olivia Rodrigo will be made, but we know they're priced the same ($200) as the regular LinksBuds S. They're available for preorder starting September 26.
Rodrigo's recently announced world tour for her 2023 sophomore album Guts has been seeing incredible demand, with some ticket resellers commanding prices in excess of $5,000 -- reminiscent of the kind of enthusiasm shown for Taylor Swift's currently touring Eras shows. Guts is the follow-up to Rodrigo's hugely popular debut solo album, 2021's Sour.
Audio / Video Bose has debuted its latest QuietComfort wireless headphones and earbuds -- the Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones ($429) and Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds ($299). They feature new designs, new materials, and in keeping with the industry's recent obsession with spatial audio, the new models are equipped with Bose Immersive Audio, Bose's version of the 3D audio experience that Apple helped to popularize with its AirPods Pro. The Ultra models also have Qualcomm's Snapdragon Sound platform, which enables hi-res or lossless CD-quality audio via the aptX Adaptive Bluetooth codec when used with compatible Android smartphones.
The new Ultra models replace the Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 and the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II (QCE II) as the company's wireless audio flagships. Bose has also introduced a successor to the Bose QuietComfort 45 Headphones, known simply as the Bose QuietComfort Headphones ($349). All three models will be available in black or white, with an additional limited-edition green color for the QuietComfort Headphones. The Ultra models start shipping in October, with the QuietComfort Headphones arriving a little earlier, on September 21. Preorders for all three models start September 14 on bose.com.
Bose Immersive Audio Bose says its immersive audio system creates a wider, more spacious soundstage for all kinds of content. And similar to the Dolby Audio spatial option on the recently released Jabra Elite 10 wireless earbuds, Bose's system uses sensors to enable optional head tracking.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
