Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Ifi Go Link DAC/amp review: a $59 on-ramp to lossless, hi-res audio By Simon Cohen Close $59.00 Affordably priced Wide support for formats Clear, detailed sound Adapters for PC and iPhone Tidal MQA-compatible Slightly cold tone Non-replaceable cable No EQ enhancements Hi-res and lossless audio have been big buzzwords over the past few years as streaming services and audio gear manufacturers have been looking for ways to entice music fans with promises of a better listening experience. Those aren’t empty promises. With the right combination of hardware and software, you really can get much better audio quality than by listening to Spotify Free on a set of AirPods.
Wired? Really? Your universal headphone jack Tiny, yet tough All of the formats It’s also an amp So, how does it sound? But it’s also a slippery slope, with extra expenses that can easily scare someone who’s unsure about the benefits. For those folks, Ifi’s $59 Go Link headphone DAC/amp is the perfect on-ramp to the world of lossless and hi-res audio.
Earfun makes hi-res audio more accessible with affordable earbuds and DAC Bose revamps QuietComfort headphones and earbuds with lossless, hi-res, and spatial audio Tidal’s new hi-res FLAC option couldn’t be more annoying Wired? Really? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Before I get into the Go Link itself, here’s a quick primer on the state of wireless audio in 2023. While it’s true that we’re slowly beginning to see products on both the smartphone and wireless earbuds /headphones side of the audio equation that support a truly lossless, CD-quality sound experience (like the Nura True Pro ), the vast majority who listen using wireless headphones are hearing “lossy” audio.
Lossy means that some of the information from a studio recording has been discarded in order to make a song file small enough to be reliably streamed over a Bluetooth connection. When you include the lossy compression that may have already happened to a song before it ever reaches your phone (e.g., when streaming using a low-quality option like Spotify Free), the sound that finally reaches your ears has been altered considerably.
Getting a high-quality source of music can be solved with a subscription to one of the many services that offer lossless audio, like Apple Music , Amazon Music , Tidal , Qobuz , etc. Getting around the limitations of Bluetooth is harder, which is why a wired connection is preferred. It’s a lot less convenient, no doubt about it, but if you want to experience the best possible audio quality, there’s no substitute for a direct connection.
Your universal headphone jack Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If you’re staring at your phone right now and wondering how, exactly, you’re supposed to use a set of wired headphones when there’s no jack to plug them into, we’ve just arrived at the first benefit of the Ifi Go Link.
Going wired means you need a headphone jack, and the Go Link can (with some help from the included adapters) turn any USB-C, USB-A, or Apple Lightning port into a 3.5mm headphone jack that will work with 99.9% of the wired headphones and earbuds that you already own or might consider buying in the future.
Tiny, yet tough Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Go Link is incredibly light at just 0.4 ounces, and small enough even with one of the optional adapters to fit in that weird fifth jeans pocket that no one uses. The two main components (plug and jack portions) are encased in metal bodies and are linked by a short, braided cable.
The cable’s main purpose is to keep your phone and the Go Link from damage that might be caused by strain. If the device was a single metal housing that stuck straight out from your phone like a USB memory stick, it could easily snap if you accidentally tugged on your headphone cable. That braided cable doesn’t look especially robust, but it’s held in place by a rigid set of connectors at both ends. After some assertive (but not aggressive) experimental tugging, I’m fairly confident it will stand up to most daily use.
Still, no matter how robust it might be, it’s a permanent link between your source device and your headphones. Should it be damaged, you’ll have to shell out for a new unit. That’s where more expensive DAC/amps have an edge: they typically place all of the critical components in a tough metal case and use a series of inexpensive plug-in cables to give you compatibility with your various devices. The odds of killing what’s inside the metal case are far lower than damaging a cable.
All of the formats A magenta LED indicates the DAC is decoding an MQA stream.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends A digital-to-analog converter (DAC) like the Go Link doesn’t decode audio files like FLAC, MP3, AAC, ALAC, etc. — that job is undertaken by your favorite audio player app or streaming music service app. Once those files have been decoded, they’re still in a digital format known as pulse-coded-modulation (PCM), and they can run the gamut in terms of resolution and sample frequency. This is where the Go Link is different from those cheap, $10 headphone jack adapters you may have seen on Amazon. Those devices often max out at 16-bit/48kHz, and there’s normally no support for DSD (a less common, but favorite format of many audiophiles) or MQA (the format used by Tidal’s Masters audio tracks).
The Go Link, by contrast, can handle PCM audio up to 24-bit/384kHz, as well as three of the most common DSD sample rates (64, 128, and 256), and it can perform the “final unfold” needed to deliver MQA streams at their full quality when using an app like Tidal.
Is your head spinning? Suffice it to say, all of this means that no matter what you choose to listen to — even if it’s a rarely used audiophile format — the Go Link has you covered. Better yet, a color-coded LED on the main body of the dongle confirms the kind of format the DAC is working with, which takes the guesswork out of whether your favorite app is delivering the audio quality you’re expecting or not.
It’s also an amp A green LED means the Go Link is processing PCM between 44.1 and 96kHz.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As I said earlier, you can plug just about any set of wired earbuds and headphones into the Ifi Go Link, thanks to its 3.5mm headphone jack. And yet, there’s a lot more to getting good sound from your headphones than just being able to physically plug them in. A basic set of wired buds that came packaged with your phone won’t need much in the way of amplification — they’re designed to work with a tiny amount of power. But if you want to use a full-size set of headphones or even a high-quality set of in-ear monitors (IEMs) , you need more than just a tiny amount of juice. This is especially true if your headphones use high-impedance drivers.
The Go Link can’t compete with a dedicated, standalone headphone amp, but it provides reliable and distortion-free power that can drive most sets of headphones up to 600 ohms of impedance, with plenty of volume. The one caveat is that the device it’s plugged into has to support that power demand, and not all of them do — more on that in a moment.
So, how does it sound? Questyle M15 (from left), Ifi Go Bar, Helm Audio Bolt, Ifi Go Link, and Apple lightning-to-3.5mm adapter Simon Cohen / Digital Trends This little device is truly impressive for the price. A lot will depend on your headphones and your chosen music source, but the Ifi Go Link has the potential to let you hear detail and nuance that a basic headphone adapter (or even the jack built into your laptop) can’t match.
Using Sennheiser’s great, entry-level HD 560S wired, open-back headphones ($200) as my audiophile option and a set of $100 1More Triple Driver earbuds, I auditioned the Go Link on an iPhone 14, an Asus Zenfone 9, a Xiaomi 12 Pro, and a MacBook Air. I then compared its performance to Apple’s $10 lightning-to-headphone adapter and the built-in headphone jack on the MacBook Air, as well as to several more expensive headphone DAC/amps: the $329 Ifi Go Bar , $120 Helm Audio Bolt , and a $269 Questyle M15.
All of these scenarios were fueled by two music sources: hi-res, lossless audio tracks from Amazon Music Unlimited, and a variety of MQA tracks from Tidal HiFi.
Overall, both sets of headphones performed better using the Go Link than Apple’s $10 lightning-to-headphone adapter or the built-in headphone jack on the MacBook Air.
The Triple Drivers only saw a moderate increase in areas like detail and dynamic range, but with the Sennheisers, the difference was stark.
Being able to hear the extra nuance that a great source and a great set of headphones can deliver relies on clean and powerful amplification, something that Apple’s audio options struggled to produce. The HD 560S, at 300 ohms, are considered high-impedance cans. Generally speaking, the higher the impedance, the more voltage that needs to be supplied by the amplifier.
Using the Go Link on the iPhone 14 gave the HD 560S that extra push they need to reach their potential, but even then, it felt like the minimum level of volume needed for these cans. Unfortunately, that’s a function of the iPhone’s lightning connector — iOS will only permit an external device to draw a certain amount of power. On the MacBook Air, the Go Link could avail itself of much more juice, and the result was a giant leap over the laptop’s headphone jack.
In switching the Go Link to the Android phones, I found the same thing to be true — these devices seem to give the Go Link more of what it needs to amplify the signal going to the headphones, and on tracks like Stevie Ray Vaughn’s Tin Pan Alley , it felt like more and more detail emerged as I ramped up the volume — all without a hint of distortion.
Perhaps the most amazing thing about the Ifi Go Link is how well it compares to much more expensive options. It was impossible to tell the difference between the Go Link and the Helm Bolt Audio. Both the Ifi Go Bar and Questyle M15 offered improvements in tone — going back-and-forth between them and the Go Link reveals the Go Link’s tendency to be a bit cold. But unless you have a very developed ear and a very high-performance set of headphones, I don’t think these DAC/amps provide anywhere close to the increased audio quality that their high prices suggest.
The Ifi Go Bar includes two enhanced EQ modes: extra bass and a soundstage expander. They’re nice touches if your streaming app has no tone controls of its own (I’m looking at you, Amazon Music), but again, probably not worth the extra cash.
If you’re ready to explore the world of lossless, hi-res audio, I can’t think of a better, more affordable way to do so than with the Ifi Go Link.
Editors' Recommendations Astell&Kern’s new headphone DAC is PlayStation-ready What is MQA? The controversial digital audio format fully explained Tidal will finally let you see which hi-res tracks are FLAC versus MQA What is Tidal? The hi-fi streaming music service fully explained Tidal begins its rollout of hi-res lossless audio Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Bluetooth, the technology that powers the wireless data connections between billions of devices, is going to become even more capable, with big increases planned for the data bandwidth of Bluetooth LE.
The Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG) -- the organization that's responsible for the ongoing development of Bluetooth technology -- organized a media briefing via Vimeo on May 2, 2023, to outline the changes.
Audio / Video While participating in an Ask Me Anything (AMA) session on Reddit on April 11, Tidal CEO Jesse Dorogusker, said that the music streaming service would soon add the option to listen to hi-res lossless audio in the FLAC format. The new format will be exclusive to the service's HiFi Plus subscriber base. Dorogusker did not provide specific timing for the change.
"Breaking news for my reddit peeps:" Dorogusker wrote during the session, "we will be introducing hi-res FLAC for our HiFi Plus subscribers soon. It's lossless and an open standard. It's a big file, but we'll give you controls to dial this up and down based on what's going on." Audio / Video They won't fit a lot of budgets, but if you're an audiophile who has long wished for a set of wireless headphones that can deliver truly lossless, hi-res audio, the Hed Unity are the first product that can grant your wish. The over-ear cans use Wi-Fi as well as Bluetooth and can store hi-res music within their onboard storage for access to those hi-res tracks even when you're not at home on your Wi-Fi network. The price for this ultimate level of wire-free listening? $2,199 and you can order them starting April 12 at getunity.com.
The Unity is the first set of headphones from Hed, a Swiss audio company. The company calls the Unity's Wi-Fi-based audio Full-Fidelity. "We believe that everyone should be able to listen to audiophile quality audio, whenever and wherever, simply and without compromise," said Tim Degraye, Co-Founder of HED Unity in a press release. "It’s time to demystify the process. Once you hear the difference it’s impossible to go back." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
