Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Jabra Elite 10 review: great comfort and spatial sound By Simon Cohen Close $249.00 Very comfortable Excellent sound quality Great controls Fully waterproof and dustproof Bluetooth Multipoint Mediocre call quality Spatial audio doesn't wow No Amazon Alexa option Jabra’s latest flagship wireless earbuds , the Elite 10 , have massive shoes to fill. They’re the official successor to the Elite 7 Pro , a feature-rich product that nailed the sweet spot of price versus performance.
Jabra Elite 10: design Jabra Elite 10: comfort and controls Jabra Elite 10: Bluetooth Multipoint Jabra Elite 10: noise cancellation and transparency Jabra Elite 10: sound quality and spatial audio Jabra Elite 10: call quality Jabra Elite 10: battery life This makes Jabra’s approach to the Elite 10 something of a gamble. Instead of doubling down on the 7 Pro’s success by improving its performance further, the Elite 10 seem to draw more inspiration from Jabra’s Elite 85t, an older, more expensive, model that emphasized comfort and sound quality. To this formula the Elite 10 adds Dolby Atmos spatial audio with head-tracking and has set the price accordingly at $249. That makes them Jabra’s most expensive buds to date, and the same price as Apple’s AirPods Pro, the Elite 10’s nearest competitor.
Bose revamps QuietComfort headphones and earbuds with lossless, hi-res, and spatial audio Updating our Sony WF-1000XM5 review Jabra’s $100 Elite 4 are its most affordable ANC earbuds yet Has Jabra’s gamble paid off? Let’s check them out.
Jabra Elite 10: design The Elite 10’s charging case will sit vertically – if you prop it up.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends There will be no mistaking the Elite 10 for any other Jabra model. They’re bigger, with a vaguely egg-like shape, more contoured on their undersides, and entirely wrapped in a velvety soft silicone that feels a lot like the ShakeGrip skin Jabra used on the Elite 7 Active.
 The Elite 10 keep the distinct teardrop multifunction button Jabra has used on all of its recent models, though it’s now a little bigger, which makes it easier to press. Jabra’s build quality is truly impressive — except for the screened microphone openings, as there are no gaps or seams anywhere. The Elite 10 also come in a variety of shades: Titanium Black, Cocoa (which looks kinda burgundy to me), Matte Black, Gloss Black, and Cream, the latter of which you can see in the photos of our review model.
Jabra Elite 7 Pro (left) and Elite 10 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends But the biggest change is the oval eartips, a design that Jabra introduced on the 2020 Elite 85t , but seemingly abandoned for all of its newer models. They’re back, but with a twist: the new design is asymmetrical, following an ergonomic shape that should create a better, more comfortable seal for most people. At a media briefing on the Elite 10 in New York City, Calum MacDougall, Jabra’s senior vice president of marketing, told me that oval eartips are simply a better match for the shape of our ear canals than round tips. That may be so, but Jabra’s continuing use of round tips for its other models suggests that it’s not quite ready to bet the company’s future on that belief.
If the Elite 10 earbuds are a hybrid of the 7 Pro and the 85t, then so is their charging case, which now resembles the case for Apple’s AirPods Pro , but is beefier. Like Apple’s case, it has gentle, rounded corners that make it a joy to hold, and you lay it flat on its back to charge, whether wirelessly using a Qi-compatible charger, or with the included USB-C cable.
Jabra has abandoned the Elite 7 Pro’s clamshell lid in favor of its original flip-top design. But thanks to a larger body-to-lid ratio, it’s even easier to open the lid one-handed.
The only (very minor) downside is that — unlike Jabra’s previous designs — the case can no longer sit upright with the lid open.
The Elite 10 are rated IP57 , effectively making them waterproof and dustproof. Their case, however, has no protection from the elements, so keep that in mind.
Jabra Elite 10: comfort and controls Simon Cohen / Digital Trends For me, the Elite 10’s new shape and oval eartips deliver when it comes to comfort. They seem to nestle into my conchas (the pocket created by the outer ear) as though they were made to order. If you’ve ever been bothered by the so-called occlusion effect (that uncomfortable feeling of having your ears blocked), the Elite 10’s vented design should help a lot. Compared to the fully sealed Elite 7 Pro, it’s a far more natural feeling, which is further helped by the Elite 10’s silky smooth exterior — it’s like a second skin, all but eliminating pressure points that can be caused by hard plastic.
In the box, you get four sizes of eartips from which to choose — that’s up from the usual three sizes that Jabra has included in the past, a good decision considering that some people will need to use different sizes in each ear. Unfortunately, Jabra has removed the Fit Test feature in the Sound+ companion app that helped guide you to the eartip size(s) offering the best fit.
As comfortable as I find them, I don’t expect everyone to agree. Despite all of their ergonomic advantages, the Elite 10 are still physically large; those with smaller ears may have trouble getting them to fit. This is compounded by the design of the eartips: Jabra has gone with a shorter tower (or horn) — the nozzle part to which the eartips are affixed — which keeps the tips from penetrating the ear canal as deeply as they do with the Elite 7 Pro.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The result is not only a more challenging fit for small ears, but also a less secure fit for all ear sizes. They stayed put for me during casual use and walking, but the new Jabra Elite 8 Active will be a better choice for high-impact activities.
As far as I’m concerned, Jabra’s controls are the best, period. In an industry where touch controls have become the norm, Jabra’s steadfast use of physical buttons is admirable and the company keeps finding ways to make them better.
The Elite 10’s multifunction buttons click with surgical precision. They require very little pressure, and yet inadvertent presses rarely happen. You can use them to control every function via the default gestures or you can pick your own using the app. Best of all, if you live in a place that experiences winter, physical buttons don’t require you to remove your gloves. Jabra also enhances these controls with wear sensors that can be used to pause your tunes, or answer a call as soon as you place an earbud in your ear.
As with many of Jabra’s newer models, Spotify Tap is an option, but it comes at the cost of voice assistant access. Speaking of voice assistants, the Elite 10 has lost Amazon Alexa as an option, something that previous models gave to both Android and iOS users.
Jabra Elite 10: Bluetooth Multipoint Getting the Elite 10 to pair with an iPhone is simple and easy. And thanks to Google Fast Pair, it’s even quicker on Android devices. Once connected, I didn’t experience any hiccups — they were rock-solid. Jabra was an early adopter of Bluetooth Multipoint , the technology that lets you stay connected to two devices simultaneously, and it continues to offer excellent, stable Multipoint connections.
I especially like the way Jabra’s earbuds go into pairing mode. There’s no need to reinsert them in the case — simply press on both buttons simultaneously for a few seconds and you’ll hear “ready to pair.” Jabra Elite 10: noise cancellation and transparency Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Noise cancellation is very good on the Elite 10. It reduces distracting sounds in a wide variety of conditions, but be wary of the language Jabra uses to describe it. You’ll see “up to 2x more noise cancellation with Jabra Advanced ANC” listed on the Elite 10 Amazon description, but that’s not twice as much ANC as other companies’ models or even twice as much as the Elite 7 Pro — it’s relative to Jabra’s own entry-level “standard” ANC, which you’ll find on the Elite 4.
As far as I can tell, the Elite 7 Pro are still a hair more effective at blocking out noise (wind noise too) — probably because the software doesn’t have to deal with the Elite 10’s vented design, which naturally lets more external sounds in. And since the Elite 7 Pro were never the cream of the ANC crop to begin with, that means you’ll get better results from the AirPods Pro and the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II if absolute silence is what you seek.
It’s a similar story for transparency (or HearThrough in Jabra’s vocabulary). The Elite 10 let lots of sound in and you can tweak the amount in the app. It’s perfect for keeping tabs on possible hazards as you run or walk, and for the occasional conversation. It’s not quite as good for keeping your own voice sounding natural to you — that remains a feat that only Apple has perfected — but I love that you can choose to pause your tunes automatically when you turn it on.
Jabra Elite 10: sound quality and spatial audio Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sporting a set of new 10mm drivers, the Elite 10 are the best Jabra earbuds yet when it comes to sound quality. They produce that classic Jabra sound: full and resonant bass layered with clear and detailed mids and highs, but they do it with more authority and with a wider soundstage than both the Elite 7 Pro and the Elite 85t. It’s a sound signature that seems to be the ideal companion to any genre of music. Jabra has quietly dropped the “MySound” feature from its app, which created a personalized EQ based on your hearing profile, but since it didn’t do much for my enjoyment of the Elite 7 Pro, I’d be surprised if it’s missed.
The most notable part of the Elite 10’s listening experience is the addition of Dolby Atmos processing for spatial audio. Like the AirPods Pro, the Elite 10 also have head-tracking sensors that can be used to give spatial audio an extra layer of realism by keeping some elements (like a lead vocalist or an on-screen actor) anchored in space, while the rest of the sound moves as you move your head. Unlike the AirPods Pro, however, the Elite 10’s Dolby processing (with or without the optional head-tracking mode) is available when listening to any audio, from any source, not just audio encoded in the Dolby Atmos format. It’s the same system that LG was first to use on its T90Q wireless earbuds , but Dolby says it’s been improved for the Elite 10.
On paper, that sounds pretty good, especially for fans of the wider and deeper soundstage that spatial audio creates. The Elite 10 should be able to “spatialize” any regular, two-channel audio into 3D sound.
Unfortunately, I just wasn’t impressed by the results. It offers only the slightest alteration of the audio, coming nowhere close to what a true Dolby Atmos-formatted song or movie soundtrack can deliver.
Moreover, keeping spatial audio turned on while listening to actual Dolby Atmos makes the sound quality worse. It’s counterintuitive, but since the earbuds don’t know when you’re listening to spatial audio content or when it’s stereo, they apply the same processing to all audio. And since Dolby Atmos content has already been processed by your streaming app, the Elite 10 essentially processes it again when you’re using Jabra’s spatial audio option.
The result is a perceptible drop in midrange to high frequencies — it sounds muddier than normal Dolby Atmos. You can get most of this clarity back by using the Sound+ app’s equalizer as yet another layer of adjustment, but keep in mind that this new EQ will still be applied when you switch back out of spatial mode.
If the Elite 10’s handling of up-converted two-channel audio is a mild effect, the opposite is true of its head tracking system. I’m still not sure I like listening to head-tracked music, but if you like it, the Elite 10 can be aggressive in their anchoring of music. On some songs, like Billie Eilish’s Bad Guy , the vocals remain front and center, while the rest of the track moves with you as you turn your head. This is what you’d normally expect from head tracking. However, on Temple Of Ekur by Volbeat, the entire band stays fixed in place as though you were turning your head away from a set of speakers directly in front of you.
When it comes to Dolby Atmos Music , each track must be judged on its own merits. Some mixes really benefit from the technology, while others can sound worse. The same is true for the Elite 10’s handling of spatial audio effects.
Jabra Elite 10: call quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Elite 7 Pro had exceptional call quality, whether indoors or outdoors, and even strong wind didn’t interfere with your ability to be heard by callers. The Elite 10 has just as many microphones as the Elite 7 Pro, so you’d expect them to perform similarly, but that’s not the case. While not bad for calls, the Elite 10 can’t match the 7 Pro’s overall clarity and consistency. Background sounds were still noticeable and my voice sounded compressed at times, with a significant amount of sibilance. In fact, in going back over my sample recordings for other Jabra earbuds, I can’t even say with confidence that the Elite 10 are better for calls than the $150 Elite 5.
You still get Jabra’s adjustable side-tone option to pipe in a bit of your own voice for a more natural and less tiring experience, plus the handy one-click mic muting feature, which is still a rarity on wireless earbuds. But overall, the Elite 10 aren’t going to be the best Jabras if call quality in a variety of situations matters to you.
Jabra Elite 10: battery life Battery life on the Elite 10 is in the same neighborhood as previous Jabra models. You get a claimed eight hours with ANC off (36 hours total with the charging case), and six hours (27 total) when it’s on. To get these numbers, you’ll need to keep the volume level set to 50%. A fast charge of five minutes will extend your playtime by an hour. The Elite 7 Pro manage to get almost eight hours with ANC — I’m guessing their ANC system just doesn’t have to work as hard because of their fully closed design.
There’s a lot to like about the Jabra Elite 10. They’re very comfortable, their redesigned charging case is easier to use and carry, and they’re the best-sounding Jabra earbuds so far. Their inclusion of Dolby Atmos spatial audio may not be for everyone, but it’s a fun feature that’s worth exploring, and their physical controls are best in class. However, the Elite 10 represent a step backward in call quality, battery life, and security of fit when compared to the Elite 7 Pro, while at the same time costing $49 more. The Elite 10 still get a hearty endorsement, but they stop just shy of the incredible value Jabra delivered on its previous flagship.
Editors' Recommendations Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Jabra’s latest wireless earbuds have Dolby spatial audio Sony updates WH-1000XM5 with head-tracked spatial audio and better multipoint Both of Bose’s QuietComfort Earbuds II can now be used independently OnePlus Buds Pro 2 to support Android’s new spatial audio feature Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Recently acquired by HP in 2022, Poly has come to CES 2023 with its first wireless earbuds, the Voyager Free 60 and Voyager Free 60+, which go head-to-head with Jabra's Evolve 2 Buds. Both products are aimed at folks who want earbuds they can use for work and play and feature a dedicated USB Bluetooth adapter that can be used to integrate the earbuds with popular messaging and conferencing apps like Teams or Zoom.
The Poly Voyager Free 60 earbuds are expected to be available in March, starting at $299, while the Poly Voyager Free 60+ will be $350.
Audio / Video Audio-Technica has been in the personal audio game for 60 years, but that doesn't mean it can't learn a thing or two from newer competitors. The company's newest wireless earbuds -- the $299 ATH-TWX9 -- borrow a feature that LG first debuted on its own line of earbuds: sterilization of bacteria and viruses using UV light. They're available from Amazon and other retailers.
When you pop the ATH-TWX9 back in their charging case, a UV light system engages, and with a little help from something called "mirror processing," the company says bacteria and viruses will be eliminated from the surface of the earbuds. It's not entirely clear whether that means just the eartips, or the whole earbud, but the fine print is careful to point out that while the system is more than 99% effective against E. coli and bacteriophage viruses, and more than 90% effective against Staphylococcus aureus, it won't kill all bacteria and viruses, and Audio-Technica doesn't know how well it protects against the virus that causes COVID-19.
Audio / Video Bose says its new noise-canceling wireless earbuds, the $299 QuietComfort Earbuds II, are the best active noise cancellation (ANC) you can get, period. That goes for over-ear headphones, as well as wireless earbuds. And after getting a demo of these new buds at the launch event in New York City, I believe it.
In a perfect world, wireless earbuds would magically know which sounds we cared about and which ones annoy us, and then completely erase the bad ones, leaving just our music, or maybe the voice of someone we're trying to talk to. The QuietComfort Earbuds II (QCE II) can't quite do that, but they come closer than any other ANC product I've tried -- at least, that was my impression following the demo.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
