Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Jabra Elite 4 Review: everyday carry wireless earbuds By Simon Cohen Close $100.00 Comfy and secure Water and dust resistant Very good sound quality Effective noise canceling Excellent transparency mode Bluetooth Multipoint No wireless charging No AAC Bluetooth codec No wear sensors Middling battery life While certainly there are wireless earbuds that continue to push the boundaries in areas like sound quality, noise cancellation, spatial audio, and advanced sensors for activity tracking, most of us just need a reliable, comfortable, decent-sounding set that won’t make us rethink our annual tech budgets.
That Jabra shape Perfectly balanced active noise cancellation Still sound great Multitasking with multipoint Here for a good time, not a long time Clear calls Priced at $100, Jabra’s latest earbuds, the Elite 4, fit that need perfectly. Here’s why.
Your next noise-canceling earbuds may use Navy sonar tech Creative’s Aurvana Ace are the first wireless earbuds to use MEMS drivers Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more That Jabra shape Simon Cohen / Digital Trends With only a few small exceptions, all of Jabra’s wireless earbuds have the same basic shape. It’s a shape I have always found to be comfortable, and that goes for the Elite 4 too. They won’t work for everyone — my daughter has never been able to wear Jabras — but if you’ve never had any particular fit problems with other earbuds, I suspect you’ll find the Elite 4 both comfy and secure.
The other feature that Jabra has maintained across all of its products is physical buttons instead of touch controls. And after testing what must be well over 200 wireless earbuds at this point, I still think buttons trump touch. The Elite 4’s controls are a textbook example of why: they’re easy to locate, you can use them even while wearing gloves, they give a precise and tactile click when you press them, and they take just the right amount of pressure — accidental clicks are unlikely and you won’t feel like you’re trying to push them into your skull.
The Elite 4 come with a charging cable and three sizes of eartips.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Unfortunately, there’s no way to customize the controls’ behavior as you can on more expensive Jabra models like the Elite 5 , 7 Active, and 7 Pro.
 But once you memorize what each click pattern does, it becomes second nature — most of the default patterns are very intuitive.
The Elite 4 also boast a decent amount of protection from water and dust with an IP55 rating — more than enough for sweaty workouts. Need even more water protection? Spend the extra $20 and get the essentially waterproof Elite 4 Active.
Perfectly balanced active noise cancellation If you’re wondering why you should pay $20 more to jump from the $80 Elite 3 to the Elite 4, it’s this: active noise cancellation (ANC). The Elite 4 are Jabra’s least expensive earbuds to offer this popular feature and the company didn’t cheap out. It may not be able to compete with the likes of the AirPods Pro 2 or the Bose Quiet Comfort Earbuds II , but it takes the Elite 4’s already good noise isolation and noticeably decreases the number of external sounds that make it through to your ears.
Want help focusing on work while in a noisy office or a coffee shop? They can do that. Want to be able to hear your podcasts clearly as you walk down busy urban sidewalks dotted with construction sites? They can do that too. Jabra lets you personalize the amount of ANC in the Sound+ app, but I didn’t find the adjustments made much of a difference — it was great right out of the box.
With a single click of the left earbud button, you can switch to an excellent transparency mode that lets all of that sound in so you can keep tabs on what’s going on around you.
Still sound great Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Are the Elite 4 going to impress audiophiles with their sound quality? Nope, but they are absolutely fine for music listening that takes place while you’re going about your day. iPhone users will have to content themselves with basic Bluetooth — the Elite 4 only support the SBC Bluetooth codec , not the higher-quality AAC codec — but Android users get aptX , which can outperform both SBC and AAC in terms of fidelity.
Regardless of the codecs in use, there’s very good clarity, with excellent frequency balance out of the box, and Jabra offers some nice EQ tweaks within its free Sound+ companion app.
There’s plenty of bass for those who like their music with some low-end kick and the soundstage, while not massive, is wide enough and precise enough to let you enjoy plenty of detail from your favorite tracks.
Multitasking with multipoint Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Jabra has given the Elite 4 some helpful Bluetooth bonuses, like Google Fast Pair and Microsoft Swift Pair, which speed the initial connection process on Android and Windows devices. I’ve never found initial Bluetooth pairing to be very troublesome even without these technologies, so I’m inclined to say they’re nice-to-haves.
But if we’re talking about need-to-haves, let’s give Jabra props for adding Bluetooth Multipoint so you can keep the Elite 4 connected to two of your devices simultaneously. If you want to use your earbuds on your phone and your laptop (which is most of us these days), it’s not just a convenience, it’s a necessity. A necessity you won’t find on the Elite 3 or the Elite 4 Active, which makes the Elite 4 the least expensive Jabra buds to offer it (previously that title went to the Elite 5).
Using Multipoint to connect the Elite 4 to an iPhone and an Android handset simultaneously worked without a hitch — as did connecting them to a MacBook Air and an Android device. For some reason though, connecting to the iPhone and the MacBook Air was a bit troublesome. In some instances, the second device connected would produce a broken-up and garbled audio stream. Sometimes the interference lasted a few seconds, sometimes it lasted longer.
I’m guessing Jabra will be able to fix this with a firmware update — the company is really good about issuing updates long after you buy their product — but in the meantime, be prepared for a bit of weirdness when combining some devices.
Here for a good time, not a long time Simon Cohen / Digital Trends When buying wireless earbuds for $100, you can’t expect the world. The Elite 4 lack some niceties like wireless charging, multiple voice assistants, and wear sensors to auto-pause and resume your music. I’m fine with these omissions for the price.
I’m a little less understanding when it comes to battery life. At a stated 5.5 hours of playtime per charge and 22 hours total with the case for ANC listening, the Elite 4 seem a bit outgunned. Those numbers become more useful when you turn ANC off (7/28 respectively), but it’s hard not to notice that competitors at the same price, like the Soundcore Space A40 , can last a lot longer at 8/40 — and that’s with ANC on. Even the less expensive, $80 Earfun Air Pro 3 can swing 7/37 with ANC on, so really, what’s Jabra’s excuse? Oh and just to put some salt in the wound, both of these models have wireless charging too. Ouch.
Clear calls Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Call quality is one of Jabra’s strong suits and the Elite don’t disappoint. In all but the noisiest conditions, your callers will hear you clearly, with virtually no compression or wobbliness. Sadly, the sidetone feature (designed to let you hear your own voice clearly while on a call) is a lot less effective.
In some ways, this isn’t all that surprising. The Elite 5 and Elite 7 Pro, both of which excel at side tone, have up to eight mics to work with. The Elite 4, by contrast, have just four, and I guess something has to give.
It’s not a deal-breaker by any means, but it’s worth mentioning that if you do a lot of calling, consider the Elite 5 instead.
Another handy feature you won’t find on many wireless earbuds is mic muting during calls.
Jabra fans already know that the brand builds robust wireless earbuds that sound great for their price. The Elite 4 might not include every single feature that similarly-priced competitors offer, but if you’re looking for a set of buds you can use for everything from work to play to workouts and daily commutes without spending serious cash, they’re absolutely worth it.
Editors' Recommendations The best waterproof wireless earbuds for 2023 JLab jumps into hi-res and Bluetooth LE audio with $200 Epic Lab Edition earbuds Earfun Free Pro 3 wireless earbuds will make you question Apple’s prices What is ANC and how do noise-cancelling headphones work? Why do my wireless earbuds keep connecting when they’re in their case? Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video It’s hard to beat the convenience of a set of wireless earbuds. Still, these devices all suffer from two major drawbacks: they sit inside your ear, where they can cause discomfort, and they generally block a lot of external sounds, which can be downright hazardous in certain situations.
Open-ear earbuds, and other types of open-ear "headphones," as they're often categorized, deal with both of these challenges. Because they don’t sit inside your ear, they’re incredibly comfortable — you can often forget you’re even wearing them. And because they don’t seal off your ear canal (not even a little), you’ll hear the whole world just like you do when you’re not wearing earbuds — without resorting to a transparency mode or removing an earbud.
Audio / Video Samsung's new wireless earbuds -- the Galaxy Buds FE -- are just $100, a new low price for a set of Galaxy Buds. Samsung introduced the new earbuds alongside its other new FE devices, the Samsung Galaxy S23 FE and Galaxy Tab S9 FE. Available in white and graphite colors, you'll be able to buy them from Samsung.com and major retailers starting October 10.
Until today, Samsung's Galaxy wireless earbuds lineup consisted of the $150 Galaxy Buds Live, the $150 Galaxy Buds 2, and the flagship $230 Galaxy Buds 2 Pro. With the Galaxy Buds FE, you can now get a set of Samsung buds with desirable features like active noise cancellation (ANC) and transparency modes for less.
Audio / Video Dali's latest wireless headphones, the Dali IO-12, will cost $1,299 when they hit retail later this month. That's a huge jump up from the company's previous offering, the $500 Dali IO-6, and it might even be a new record price for a set of wireless headphones, but Dali says the new noise-canceling cans are worth it because of the unusual technology that has been used to create the headphones' 50mm drivers.
The Danish company claims the IO-12 are the world's first to use a Soft Magnetic Compound (SMC) magnet system -- the same tech that Dali patented and used in its acclaimed floor-standing speakers. The primary benefit to SMC is a reduction of hysteresis -- distortion that can be caused by resistance to the voice coil in traditional magnet systems. Reducing hysteresis can lower uneven harmonic distortion "drastically," according to Dali.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
