Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? JBL Endurance Peak 3 review: pure sports By Simon Cohen Close $100.00 Comfy, ultra-secure fit Fully dust and waterproof Excellent battery life Useful transparency modes Awkward controls Poor noise isolation No active noise cancellation Wireless earbuds are versatile gadgets, and a lot of them have what it takes to do double-duty for both casual listening and sports. But suppose your idea of a workout involves high-impact cardio or other situations where conventional earbuds are likely to lose their grip.
In that case, you need a set of earhook earbuds, like the JBL Endurance Peak 3. At $100, they’re way more affordable than the uber-popular Beats Powerbeats Pro , yet they’ll stick to your ears just as tenaciously — maybe even more so. Are they the right sports earbuds for you? Earfun Free Pro 3 wireless earbuds will make you question Apple’s prices Updating our Sony WF-1000XM5 review The best waterproof Bluetooth speakers for 2023: from JBL, Marshall, and more As the third-generation version of JBL’s earhook earbuds, the Endurance Peak 3 don’t break any molds. In fact, you’d have to look super closely to find any significant differences to their predecessors, the Endurance Peak 2. Sometimes a formula just works.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends JBL has kept its clever Powerhook feature, which uses magnets at the tips of the earhooks to power down the earbuds when you take them off. It means you don’t need to return them to their bulky charging case or play around with buttons just to conserve battery life. I’d prefer if there was a way to tie that automatic power-off function to an auto-pause for music, but that remains something these buds don’t do.
As with all earhook designs, the Peak 3 take a bit of finagling to get onto your ears. In a standard set of earbuds, I’d call this a frustrating nuisance, but these earbuds have a mission. You lace up your running shoes and put on your Endurance Peak 3. They likely won’t be coming off again until you’re done with your workout. In the meantime, if you need to have a conversation or you simply want to keep better tabs on the world around you, JBL’s newly added smart ambient transparency features have you covered. Thanks to their impressive 10-hour battery life (maybe a little less if you listen loud) and their excellent comfort, you could leave them on for a very long time. As with all earhook-style earbuds, eyeglasses can be awkward when worn with the Peak 3. Some will work, and some will prove incompatible, depending on the thickness and design of the limbs.
The biggest change JBL has made for the Peak 3 is increased water resistance. It’s now rated at IP68 , up from the Peak 2’s IP67, which effectively makes the Peak 3 waterproof and dustproof. You’ll still need to rinse them clean after getting them sweaty or immersing them in salt water, but it should be very hard to kill these things by doing anything short of skin diving. And even then, the IP68 rating should keep things dry inside for “long periods of immersion under pressure.” JBL is so confident in the Peak 3’s combo of waterproofing and grip, it calls these earbuds “waveproof.” Sadly, I didn’t get to put that to the test, but I can attest to their rock-solid stability. They didn’t move at all once I had them firmly seated.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Unfortunately, I’m less thrilled with the controls. Touch controls can be, well, touchy, and the Peak 3 suffer from a usability problem. It’s not that the touch areas aren’t responsive — they are — it’s that they’re devilishly hard to tap with accuracy.
They’re located in the middle of the rubberized exterior panel. On the left earbud, it’s roughly where the J in JBL is, on the right side, it’s near the L. That seems intuitive enough until you’re trying to find it while running, cycling, or whatever other activity you’re engaged in. There’s no tactile way for your finger to know it’s in the right place. Instead, I found myself repeatedly tapping near the end of the surface. Not that it did me much good; the tap area doesn’t extend that far.
If you’re thinking of upgrading from the Peak 2, be warned: JBL has removed the sliding gesture for volume control on the Peak 3. Instead, you now have to choose (inside the JBL Headphones app) whether you want to control the volume or play/pause and track skip forward. To me, that’s not really a choice at all — I’d never give up play/pause functionality for anything — but that’s how it works.
Sport earbuds don’t have to sound like audiophile gear as long as they deliver on a key ingredient most folks want when working out: deep bass. The Endurance Peak 3 largely succeed on this front but you may not hear it right out of the box. For starters, the Peak 3 ship with three sets of eartips, and the medium size is installed at the factory. I found the mediums very comfy, but I struggled to hear enough low-end. Switching to the larger tips helped a lot — this is always the first thing you should try if your earbuds feel anemic when it comes to bass. However, I suspected there was potential for even more punch, so I delved into the JBL app and flipped on the equalizer. By default, this engages a preset called JBL Endurance Peak 3 EQ, which gives a bump to the mids and highs but saves its biggest boost for bass. Now we’re talking.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Again, the Peak 3 are absolutely not for critical listening — the absence of any Bluetooth codecs other than SBC and AAC is enough to tell you that — but they’re more than capable of giving you a high-energy accompaniment to your workouts.
I have only one caveat and depending on where you like to sweat, it could be a big one. Even with the largest eartips installed, I found passive noise isolation less than stellar. Hoping on the treadmill at the gym made me instantly wish for active noise cancellation (ANC), which these buds don’t have, and I was similarly disturbed by passing traffic while listening to podcasts on my daily walk.
Perhaps I’m just spoiled — most of the earbuds I test these days have at least mild ANC — but I wanted the ability to block out more of the outside world.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends It’s unlikely that you’ll want to wear the Endurance Peak 3 for their full 10-hour battery life, but it’s nice to know it’s there if you need it. It’s also nice to know that they handily beat the Powerbeats Pro when it comes to longevity: the Peak 3 get a total of 50 hours when you include the charging case, versus 9 hours/24 hours for the Beats.
Call quality on the Endurance Peak 3 is surprisingly good for a set of affordable earbuds. The mics don’t block all external sounds (wind and traffic noise still get through) but neither do they crush the life out of your voice when trying to compensate for those sounds. The result is generally good voice calls, albeit with a bit of compression and wobbliness that kicks in now and then. When indoors or in quiet locations, they perform far better.
Overall, these new Endurance Peak sports earbuds are a solid choice for those who need ruggedness and a secure fit. They lack a lot of bells and whistles like wireless charging, wear sensors, ANC, and Bluetooth multipoint , but then again, even the much more expensive Powerbeats Pro are missing several of these. If you want a great alternative to the Peak 3, check out the Tribit MoveBuds H1.
 They cost less, and though they’re not as sleek, they perform as well or better in most of the ways that matter.
Editors' Recommendations The best waterproof wireless earbuds for 2023 JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans The best Bluetooth speakers for 2023: Marshall, Sonos, JBL, and more JBL confirms U.S. pricing, release dates for new Tour One M2 and Tour Pro 2 JBL updates its Tune, Vibe, and Endurance Peak earbuds at CES 2023 Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Sennheiser has just released a software update for its flagship wireless earbuds that enables Bluetooth multipoint, a feature that the Momentum True Wireless 3 were missing when they launched earlier in 2022. The update comes just days after Sony made a similar announcement regarding its LinkBuds Series and WF-1000XM4 earbuds.
Bluetooth multipoint is the ability to pair a set of headphones or earbuds to two devices simultaneously, such as a computer and a smartphone. When you're connected to two such devices, you can quickly and seamlessly switch between them, just by starting the playback of an audio source -- no need to drill back into your device settings. When a phone call is received, the connected earbuds will automatically switch to the phone, and ideally, switch back to the previous device after the call ends.
Audio / Video Bose has decided to pull the plug on its Sport Open Earbuds, a set of wireless earbuds that sit on your ear instead of inside it, according to a report from The Verge and confirmed by Bose. The move comes less than two years after the product's debut. The remainder of Bose's Sport Open Earbuds is now discounted to $119 (down from its regular $199 price) until all of the inventory has been sold.
The Sport Open Earbuds were the first to try something entirely new for the wireless earbuds market. Instead of placing an earbud inside your ear, or pressed up against your ear canal, they perch on top of your ears, with a portion of the C-shaped device wrapped around the back of your ears. The design has one major strength: it lets you hear the outside world as clearly as you do when not wearing any earbuds at all.
Audio / Video Nura — the Australian company behind the innovative Nuraphone headphones, which measure your ears' unique architecture in order to customize the sound — is working on new first-of-its-kind tech for its upcoming NuraTrue Pro wireless earbuds. The new buds debut today as a Kickstarter campaign. The company says the NuraTrue Pro will be the first wireless audio device (headphones or earbuds) to use Qualcomm’s aptX Lossless codec, the first codec to promise true CD-quality audio over a Bluetooth connection.
Digital Trends was offered an advanced look at the NuraTrue Pro. And while not all of the puzzle pieces are in place just yet, the picture that is coming together looks very promising. Here’s a taste of what’s to come.
Why go lossless? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
