Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Master & Dynamic MH40 Wireless 2023 review: pricier, but worth it By Simon Cohen Close $399.00 Top-quality materials/build Unique styling Excellent sound aptX Adaptive USB-C digital audio Good battery life Pricey No ANC/transparency May not please bass fans iPhones miss out on best wireless/digital sound quality Master & Dynamic (M&D) has updated its MH40 Wireless headphones for 2023, but you’d be hard-pressed to realize it just by looking at them side by side with the originals from 2019.
 They effectively are physically identical. And yet, the new version sells for $399 — $100 more than their predecessors.
What’s changed? Unmatched design Still missing some features It’s all about the audio Are they worth it? So why would you consider upgrading, or buying the new MH40 W over their many excellent competitors? Let’s check them out.
Best wireless speakers for 2023: Sonos, Apple, KEF, and more $2,199 Hed Unity Wi-Fi headphones are the first to offer lossless hi-res audio NAD’s CS1 adds wireless streaming music to any audio system What’s changed? M&D MH40 W 2023 (top, center-right) and 2019 model (bottom, center-left). Can you tell the difference? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends In a hurry? Here’s the TL;DR on the new 2023 model: Longer battery life (30 hours versus 18) Faster charging Redesigned titanium drivers Wireless hi-res audio via Snapdragon Sound (aptX Adaptive) Digital audio input via USB-C Improved microphones Bluetooth 5.2 (versus 5.0) App-based EQ, sidetone, firmware updates Unmatched design The MH40 W 2023 comes with two USB-C audio cables, a USB-C-to-USB-A adapter, an airplane adapter, and a protective bag.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends A big part of the M&D product experience is the design. If you’re content with basic black plastic headphones, let me save you some time and money: the MH40 W aren’t the headphones you’re looking for. If, however, you feel that your headphones should help you stand out from the crowd (and not in a neon cat ears kind of way ), the MH40 W remain one of the classiest ways to go.
The 2023 model keeps every single original element intact. The vintage aviator-inspired look is at its most authentic in the cans’ silver/brown guise as seen in the photos, but you can also pick from gunmetal/black, black/black, silver/navy, and silver/grey combinations.
The use of leather, metal, and aluminum gives the headphones a heft and a feel that’s undeniably luxurious, while somehow retaining the spartan, utilitarian vibe of the cockpit equipment they emulate.
M&D MH40 W 2023 (left) and 2019 model.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If you look very closely, you’ll notice the only two visible physical updates: The two mics on the right earcup are now nestled behind windscreens, and the magnetically-latched earcushions are a little thicker. And if you drop both on a scale, you’ll notice that the 2023 model is just a tad heavier (9.95 ounces versus 9.75 ounces).
To me, the wearing experience is unchanged despite the thicker earcushions. The MH40 W are very comfortable cans for extended periods, with the same caveats as before: they will shift around if you engage in any real physical activity, and those lambskin-covered earcushions feel good against your skin but aren’t exactly breathable. So, again, heavy exertion isn’t recommended.
And those with small heads take note: there isn’t a ton of adjustment room on the slider posts (just 12mm of travel per side versus almost 35mm on the Sony WH-1000XM5 ), and M&D has chosen to err on the side of larger heads, so even the smallest fitting may place the bottom of the earcups too low for you.
Still missing some features Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Unfortunately, despite the increased price, there’s still no active noise cancellation (ANC) on these cans. It’s not a deal-breaker — the earcushions provide a very good level of passive noise isolation — but it’s something to keep in mind if you’re travel-minded or find yourself trying to work in very busy locations.
I confess to being a bit surprised, however, at the ongoing lack of a transparency mode. I only say that because the 2023 model has added side-tone — the ability to hear your voice more clearly when in phone calls — which is a nice touch. Generally, when side-tone is offered on headphones, it goes hand-in-hand with some kind of transparency feature, but not on the new MH40 W.
On the bright side, with no ANC or transparency features, the controls are effortless to master and use. Two small volume buttons flank a raised multifunction button on the right earcup, giving you access to every command you could need. I’m also going to give M&D props for a change that may seem insignificant, but that I love: All it takes to power the new version on and off is a single, short press on the power/pairing button. The original model needs long presses for both — hooray for the little things! Simon Cohen / Digital Trends From a pure usability perspective, the biggest improvement is battery life. The first-gen headphones had a barely acceptable 18-hour runtime between charges (even on ANC cans that require more power, I consider 20 hours to be an absolute minimum) so having up to 30 hours on the new model is a welcome change. There’s even been a slight improvement in how quickly they charge (6 hours of playtime after 15 minutes versus 9 hours after 30 minutes).
It’s all about the audio Still, I think the biggest reason to consider the new MH40 W is M&D’s work on audio performance. There are four technical improvements at play: redesigned drivers, which M&D says provide “more expansive sound,” better Bluetooth audio via the addition of the aptX Adaptive codec (Android only), four app-based EQ presets, and the ability to pipe digital audio directly into the headphones via USB-C.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Of these four improvements, the only one that’s worth shelling out for is the USB-C digital audio. I’m going to assume that if you’re even remotely considering dropping $400 on a set of headphones, you want to be able to experience the best audio quality that those cans can produce, without needing to spend even more money on accessories.
USB-C digital is the key to making that happen. To be clear, wireless audio quality is really good, with excellent clarity, a very balanced sound signature, and a snappy response that keeps instruments like cymbals and kick drums from muddying the soundstage. Thanks to a bump from aptX to aptX Adaptive, those with compatible Android phones will get a much higher fidelity signal than the original MH40 W. But these cans sound even better when you plug them in.
A direct digital connection means that your Android-only smartphone (sorry iPhone owners) or computer can send a full-quality, lossless signal to the MH40 W’s onboard digital-to-analog converter (DAC), which is capable of rendering up to 24-bit/96kHz resolution.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Assuming you have access to a lossless audio source — like Amazon Music, Apple Music, Tidal, or your own collection of FLAC files — you’ll get better dynamic range, with an extra level of precision that lets you hear details that even the impressive aptX Adaptive codec can’t completely reveal. As a bonus, you can charge the headphones at the same time when using USB-C digital audio, something the 2019 version couldn’t do.
On the previous model, the only way to get equivalently high-quality sound was by using a third-party headphone DAC/amp dongle in conjunction with the analog input. Depending on the DAC/amp, that could easily set you back another $100, which is why I think it’s arguable that USB-C digital audio alone might justify the 2023 model’s higher price.
If you already own the 2019 model, it’s worth noting that the new drivers (now made from titanium instead of PET) do offer a slightly expanded soundstage as promised, but they don’t make a big impact on bass response. I still find the MH40 W are on the very edge of what works for me in terms of low-end. Even with the newly available “bass boost” EQ preset, I don’t think there’s enough oomph to satisfy those who want to feel the bass-iest parts of their favorite tracks. If your tastes veer toward classical, folk, piano/trumpet-led jazz, acoustic, opera, or synth-pop, I doubt you’ll mind at all. Hip-hop, blues, rap, and EDM mavens may find themselves wanting more.
Call quality can be really good, especially in quiet locations, and having the side-tone option is great for reducing the fatigue that can come with being forced to listen to your muffled voice (plus you tend to shout when that happens). However, there’s little in the way of noise-canceling for disruptive background sounds, which will prompt your callers to peevishly ask you to call back when you’re not standing in a busy intersection.
Are they worth it? I think M&D has given the MH40 Wireless some meaningful enhancements for 2023. But as with the originals, my guidance remains the same: you buy these cans because of their unique style, craftsmanship, and excellent sound quality, but also knowing that you’re forgoing features like ANC, transparency mode, and wear sensors that have become nearly ubiquitous on wireless cans that cost half as much.
For some, that tradeoff will be worth it — no one ever said that high style and high-quality materials were cheap — but if you’re looking for a better wireless headphone bang for your bucks, there are several excellent and more affordable alternatives including the $349 Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless , $349 Sony WH-1000XM4 , and the $379 Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700.
Editors' Recommendations Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Master & Dynamic adds Lamborghini editions of its best headphones Can we talk about wireless audio’s missing speedometer? What is aptX? Cutting through the clutter of Qualcomm’s codecs What are Bluetooth codecs and do they really matter? The wireless audio tech fully explained Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Just when you thought it was safe to step back into the turbulent waters of Bluetooth audio, we have yet another Bluetooth codec to consider. In addition to SBC, AAC, LDAC, and the constantly expanding family of aptX codecs, you can now add MQair (em-kyoo-air).
MQair (known also by its technical label, SCL6) is the latest technology from MQA, the company founded by British audio pioneer Bob Stuart of Meridian Audio fame, and it has just been granted permission by the Japan Audio Society (JAS) to use the society's Hi-Res Audio Wireless logo. It's the third Bluetooth codec to receive the certification, the other two being LDAC and LHDC.
Audio / Video Audio-Technica (A-T) has been doing some wild things in honor of its 60th anniversary, like creating a $9,000 phono cartridge, and bringing back its quirky Sound Burger portable record player from the 80s. But those are just fun frivolities. The really impressive birthday gift that this 60-year-old is sharing with the world is the ATH-WB2022, a set of wooden, wireless headphones that claim to be the very first to have built-in balanced stereo.
I know, you may be scratching your head, wondering how this feature can possibly justify an insane $2,700 price tag, but audiophiles are going to be salivating right about now.
Audio / Video KEF's LS50 Wireless and LS50 Wireless II speakers set a very high bar for what you can expect from a set of powered, wireless speakers, and now the British audio brand has its sights set on doing the same thing for larger-format floor-standing speakers with the LS60 Wireless. Priced at $7,000 per pair, they come in three distinct colors: Royal Blue, Mineral White, and Titanium Grey. They're available for pre-order starting May 12, with shipping beginning in June 2022.
Many of the same integrated capabilities that made the LS50/LS50 II so popular are also found in the LS60 Wireless, like KEF's signature Uni-Q drivers, as well as support for Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, HDMI eARC, and optical, coaxial, and RCA connections. There's also app- and remote-based control that includes easy access to subscription streaming services like Amazon Music, Qobuz, and Deezer.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
