Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Monster DNA Go review: less than meets the eye By Simon Cohen Close $80.00 Wireless charging Good controls Wear sensors Plenty of eartips No EQ or control adjustments No ANC or transparency modes No Bluetooth Multipoint Mediocre call quality Uninspiring sound There are plenty of decent wireless earbuds you can buy. We maintain a list of the very best wireless earbuds to help you find them, and we also have a separate list if your budget is limited to under $100 — again, there is no shortage of great options.
The Monster DNA Go , even at the relatively affordable price of just $80, don’t belong on either of these lists.
JLab’s new earbuds are smaller than a dime, and it says $99 hearing aids are on the way Audio-Technica’s latest wireless earbuds have monster battery life JLab’s new skin tone earbuds go beyond black and white Let me explain why I’ve singled out these earbuds. There are lots of wireless earbuds that have come across my desk over the years that I wouldn’t recommend. So why write about the DNA Go? Two reasons. First: Monster is a well-known brand with a decent marketing budget. Unlike most of the so-so wireless earbuds on Amazon with names you’ve never heard of, you’ve probably heard of Monster.
 And I’m guessing that if you have, you might already have a favorable opinion of it.
Second is that Monster’s description of the DNA Go uses language intended to make you think that the earbuds have features they simply do not have.
Over-promise, under-deliver Simon Cohen / Digital Trends When Monster first announced the DNA Go (available in black or white), it claimed the earbuds would support Qualcomm’s Snapdragon Sound -based aptX Lossless codec — the first Bluetooth codec to deliver bit-perfect CD-quality sound. I’d already done a lot of research into aptX Lossless, and I knew it wasn’t the kind of technology you’d build into a set of sub-$100 earbuds, so I double-checked that claim with Monster’s reps — and got no response. Fast forward to the official launch of the DNA Go in February 2023 and Monster still refers to aptX Lossless both on its DNA Go product page and on the box itself.
Now that I’ve had the chance to try them, I can assure you, the DNA Go earbuds do not support aptX Lossless.
Sadly, this seems to be a case of Monster’s marketing team taking liberties with wording and getting themselves into hot water. The DNA Go do support classic aptX — a very good Bluetooth codec that can deliver excellent results — but classic aptX isn’t lossless.
Monster’s creative use of language may also lead you to believe that these earbuds have some form of noise cancellation. The DNA Go have “Ambient Noise Suppression,” according to the company, but let’s be clear: This has nothing to do with suppressing ambient sounds for you, as the person wearing the earbuds.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Instead, it’s a feature of the microphones for when you’re on a call, ensuring “effortless voice clarity” for the person on the other end. Does it work? Meh. These earbuds perform about the same as most average wireless earbuds. When things are noisy, your voice will almost disappear. But when things are quiet, you’ll be just fine.
What’s especially frustrating about this questionable use of terminology is that you can find $80 wireless earbuds that actually have true active noise cancellation (ANC) and good call quality, like the Earfun Air Pro 3.
Not all earbuds need ANC. Some do such a good job of passively isolating sound via the silicone eartips, the additional cancellation offered by ANC can be superfluous. Not so on the DNA Go, which let in a surprising amount of external sound. It made me wish for ANC a number of times while I was walking down busy streets.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends OK, so no ANC. But most wireless earbuds that don’t have ANC will at least offer a transparency mode for when you need to hear your surroundings. Nope, not on the DNA Go.
Here are a few other omissions I think are worth pointing out. There’s no Bluetooth Multipoint for connecting the DNA Go to two devices simultaneously. The charging case has no external LEDs so you can see if it’s actually charging, or how much battery is remaining (they’re located inside the case). And there is no companion app for iOS or Android.
You may not believe a companion app is especially important. But beyond the fact that there’s no way to adjust the EQ and no way to customize the buttons or the wear sensors, these earbuds will never get any firmware updates.
There’s also no way to turn off or adjust the volume of the audio feedback tones that play when you power the buds on or connect or disconnect them from a device. The tones are obnoxiously loud and don’t respect the volume level that you set on your phone.
At this point, you may be wondering if the DNA Go do anything well. They do, kind of.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Monster ships the earbuds with a very generous nine sizes and shapes of silicone eartips. I had to try several of them to get a good fit. But once I did, I found them fairly comfy. You also get a braided, four-foot Monster USB-C-to-USB-C cable with an attached USB-C-to-USB-A adapter should you want to charge via a wire instead of wirelessly. That’s a nice touch you don’t see very often.
The controls are also very good. I prefer physical buttons because they’re precise. You know when you clicked them correctly, and they can be used even with gloved hands. The DNA Go check all of these boxes. And since the earbuds have precious few functions, they’re all easily controlled: play/pause, track skip forward/back, volume up/down, call answer/end, and voice assistant access.
Despite the fact that you can’t control their behavior, the wear sensors are fast and accurate. You can also use one earbud at a time for both calls and music and with an IPX5 water resistance rating , they’re definitely running and workout-worthy as long as you clean them.
The charging case, with its large opening, provides excellent access to the DNA Go earbuds, making them easy to extract and replace. However, its overall size and unusual triangular wedge shape make it an awkward item to keep in your pocket.
As far as the sound goes, I am on the fence. When things are quiet, I’d say the DNA Go have fairly good sound quality. There’s a nice amount of bass, and the mids and highs are clear. Those are key ingredients. But there’s something missing around the upper mids that keep these earbuds from living up to their full potential. On tracks that I’ve listened to hundreds of times, there’s an unmistakable sense that vocals — especially male vocals — feel a bit hollow, and guitars that are normally robust sound thin.
It’s possible this is a fit-related issue. The preinstalled eartips were terrible for sound — they robbed the low end of all its weight, and as I said, it took me a while to find a better set. Perhaps a set of foam tips would help. Regardless, other than messing with the tips, the lack of any EQ adjustments meant I couldn’t do anything to rectify the problem.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Battery life is also perfectly usable at a claimed 7.5 hours per charge, and a total of 28 hours when you include the case, and a quick-charge option buys you two hours for 15 minutes in the case. On the other hand, with no ANC, transparency, or any other desirable features acting as a drain on that battery capacity, I’d be shocked to see numbers that were much lower. Keep in mind, these claims assume a 50% volume setting, something I found was hard to stick to when there were lots of competing sounds.
Monster’s DNA Go may be accessibly priced for a set of wireless earbuds from a well-known brand, but they simply fail to deliver. They fail not only based on the promises made by Monster itself but also based on the standards that have been set by many other models at this price for features and performance.
Editors' Recommendations Updating our Sony WF-1000XM5 review NuraTrue Pro hands-on review: A sneak peek at the lossless future of wireless audio Monster expands DNA lineup with new earbuds, Bluetooth speakers Soundcore Liberty 3 Pro earbuds go after Sony’s wireless hi-res crown At $20, JLab’s latest wireless earbuds are almost disposable Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video When Google launched its second-gen Pixel Buds in 2020, it created something of a conundrum for buyers of true wireless earbuds. On the one hand, their tiny size, wireless charging, comfortable fit, and excellent integration with Android and Google Assistant made them an attractive choice. But on the other hand, for the price ($179), it felt like Google had left out some important features, like active noise cancellation (ANC), transparency (ambient sound), and the ability to use their standout skills with Apple’s iOS devices.
One year later, those choices put the Pixel Buds into an even deeper corner as new products like the $199 JBL Tour Pro+, $120 Amazon Echo Buds 2, $95 1More ComfoBuds Pro, and $130 Soundcore Liberty Air 2 Pro have all trotted out great sound, ANC, and transparency.
Audio / Video If you scroll through Amazon’s inventory of true wireless earbuds, you will actually find some models that sell for less than $25, but for the most part, these are all from no-name brands that you’ve likely never heard of. That’s what makes Skullcandy’s new Dime true wireless earbuds worth a look: They’re tiny, they’re durable, they come in four colors, and they’re cheap -- just $25.
You might be thinking that if they’re this cheap, you must be giving something up. And you’d be right.
Audio / Video When it comes to noise-canceling headphones, it’s hard to beat the Sony WH-1000XM4. These active noise cancellation (ANC) cans are so good, they top many of our best-of lists including the best headphones, the best noise-canceling headphones, and the best wireless headphones. But as awesome as the XM4 are, at $348, they’re not all that affordable. So we went in search of wireless ANC headphones that achieve most of what the XM4 can do, but for way less coin.
We found three great alternatives: The $50 Wyze Headphones, the $60 Tribit QuietPlus 72, and the $80 Soundcore Life Q30.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
