Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? NuraTrue Pro review: come for the lossless audio, stay for the sound By Simon Cohen Close $329.00 aptX Lossless codec Superb sound Excellent app support Wireless charging Bluetooth Multipoint Expensive Few phones support aptX Lossless Mediocre call quality In 2022, Nura debuted the $329 NuraTrue Pro — its second set of wireless earbuds. I got a chance to try them out , but I didn’t write a full review. Why? As much as I was able to test features like active noise canceling and Nura’s proprietary tuning system that measures how your ears respond to sound, the NuraTrue Pro were the first wireless earbuds to support Qualcomm’s aptX Lossless Bluetooth codec , and I had no way to test it.
The low-down on lossless Take the Pepsi challenge Is it really lossless? Superb sound ANC, calling, controls, and battery life Like all Bluetooth codecs , aptX Lossless needs to be supported on both ends — the earbuds and the phone — and I didn’t have an aptX Lossless smartphone. A few weeks ago, however, Nura took pity on me and sent me an Asus Zenfone 9 , and I was finally able to put the NuraTrue Pro through their paces.
Earfun Free Pro 3 wireless earbuds will make you question Apple’s prices Apple has upgraded the AirPods Pro with lossless audio, sort of Updating our Sony WF-1000XM5 review As it turns out, I probably could have written the full review without the Zenfone. Here’s why.
The low-down on lossless Simon Cohen / Digital Trends First, a quick recap on aptX Lossless and why you should care. Bluetooth audio always has used what’s known as “lossy” compression. It doesn’t matter if your devices work with AAC, aptX, LDAC, aptX HD , or any number of other Bluetooth codecs — they’re all lossy, which means that some of the original information from the music playing on your phone was being sacrificed in order to fit down the fairly narrow wireless pipe that is Bluetooth.
AptX Lossless is the first codec to promise that it will preserve every one and zero that makes up your favorite songs, with support for 16-bit/44.1kHz, otherwise known as “CD quality.” For those who care a lot about pristine audio quality, this is kind of a big deal.
There are two problems with aptX Lossless. The first is that only a select few Snapdragon Sound -equipped phones support it. (Good luck figuring out which ones do.) Second is that it turns out that some of our existing lossy options already are really good. So good in fact, that when I ran a blind comparison using the NuraTrue Pro to listen to a variety of tracks where the advantages of Lossless should have been noticeable, I struggled to tell the difference between the lossless and lossy versions.
Take the Pepsi challenge To perform the test, I took advantage of the NuraTrue Pro’s Bluetooth Multipoint capabilities to connect them simultaneously to two phones at once. Sitting in a quiet room, with the volume set to 60% on each device, my daughter volunteered as DJ and pressed play and pause on each track, never telling me which phone I was listening to. For all I knew, she could have been using the same phone for each track or a different phone. My job was to listen to the same 15- to 20-second clip from a specific track twice, and then tell her which one sounded better to me.
My first comparison was between the Asus Zenfone 9 and an iPhone 14. The iPhone uses the AAC codec when available, and the NuraTrue Pro supports AAC. It is a good codec, but it’s been around a long time and it has a hard limit on its bitrate when used with Bluetooth of 320 kilobits per second (Kbps). To put that in perspective, aptX Lossless uses more than 300% more bandwidth at 1 megabit per second (1,000 Kbps). Not surprisingly, I could hear a difference between them. It wasn’t night and day, but if you listened closely, aptX Lossless consistently delivered more detail and less harshness than AAC. Of the six or so test tracks, I was able to pick the Lossless version 100% of the time, with no need to re-listen to the two versions.
My second comparison proved way harder. This time the Zenfone 9 was up against a Xiaomi 12 Pro equipped with aptX Adaptive. Quick sidebar: aptX Lossless is actually a special mode that some aptX Adaptive phones can use, so you will likely never see “aptX Lossless” listed in your device’s Bluetooth menu. More on that incredibly bad design in a moment.
Related: What is aptX? Cutting through the clutter of Qualcomm’s codecs Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Even though aptX Adaptive is lossy, it’s a much newer and more efficient codec than AAC, and it also (as its name suggests) can adapt to the quality of your phone/earbuds’ Bluetooth connection. When things are zipping along, Adaptive can use up to 660Kbps. It also (for the audiophiles out there) can support up to 24-bit/96kHz.
The point here is that aptX Adaptive was, until recently, one of the best Bluetooth codecs you could use, and bumping up to aptX Lossless represents a much smaller leap in quality than going from AAC to aptX Lossless.
The proof? Using the same test tracks, my accuracy dropped to 60% and on several occasions, it felt like pure guesswork. It’s entirely possible that if we had kept at it long enough, that success rate would have dropped further.
My conclusion is that aptX Lossless can absolutely deliver better audio, especially if you’re used to a codec like AAC. If you’re an iPhone user rocking a set of NuraTrue Pro, and you switch to an Asus Zenfone 9, I promise you will hear an improvement. However, that advantage gets a lot narrower if you’re already using an aptX Adaptive-capable phone.
Is it really lossless? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends But here’s my real beef with aptX Lossless — and to be clear, this a Qualcomm problem, not a Nura problem: It’s just too hard to know when your earbuds are using the aptX Lossless codec. Nura tries to address it inside the Nura app. With music playing, you can select the menu option and at the top of the next screen, you’ll see “Connected to NuraTrue Pro,” followed by AAC, or aptX Adaptive HQ 44.1K (this is actually aptX Lossless), or aptX Adaptive HQ 48K, which I believe is aptX Adaptive doing its lossy, 24-bit mode at 48Khz (kinda hard to say).
There’s no way it should be this complicated, and there’s no way it should rely so heavily on a 3rd party app. Phones equipped with aptX Lossless should have a clear way of indicating when that’s the codec being used — it’s the missing speedometer problem I’ve described recently.
Superb sound Simon Cohen / Digital Trends It’s worth noting that the NuraTrue Pro, aside from their lossless audio capabilities, are just generally great earbuds. So lest you form the wrong impression from that comparison above, let me state for the record that you will love listening to them even if you are limited to an iPhone’s AAC codec.
The key to getting the most out of the NuraTrue Pro is to use the free Nura app to create a personalized sound profile. It only takes a few minutes to set up and unlike some other tuning systems, there’s no A/B testing to see which EQ balances you prefer or listening tests. The earbuds pump a variety of test tones into your ear and a few moments later you’re all done.
Once the process is complete, you can switch personalization on and off to hear the difference. For me, the difference was profound, but don’t make the mistake of thinking that other earbuds that don’t have Nura’s system will sound like the “off” version — it’s not as simple as that.
You can, if you want, tune the NuraTrue Pro even further. An “immersion” level slider effectively gives you different amounts of bass boost — from just a wee bit to great big pounding levels. It can get overwhelming fast. For an even more powerful bass response, try the included foam eartips.
Nura has also jumped on the spatial audio trend (thanks, Apple) with an optional Spatial Audio mode. It’s powered by Dirac Virtuo, the same spatial processing used on the Sudio E2.
 But there must be a difference in the way Nura has implemented it. On the Sudio, it was noticeable and at times quite enjoyable. Not so much on the NuraTrue Pro. I tried it on a number of tracks and found it made very little difference to the sound. It’s nothing like what a Dolby Atmos version of a song can do in terms of a 3D feel, and it’s not as capable of a 3D simulator as the spatial effect offered by LG, 1More, or Soundcore.
If you’re more of a purist, the ProEQ tab gives you a five-channel set of individual frequencies to work with, and I found that there was a lot you could do with it. My only criticism: there’s no way to save an EQ formula that you really like while you experiment with other combinations.
When dialed in to my tastes, the NuraTrue Pro were a treat. They create a generous soundstage with good precision, and it was easy to kick back and get lost in the sound. The bass is tight and at times even musical, and I found the midranges and highs possessed plenty of detail, with no noticeable distortion even at volume levels well higher than I suspect is safe for any long-term listening. In short, they can easily go toe-to-toe with the best wireless earbuds like the Sony WF-1000XM4, Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II, Bowers & Wilkins Pi7 S2, and Sennheiser Momentum True Wireless 3.
ANC, calling, controls, and battery life The same isn’t true for active noise cancellation. It can definitely take the edge off annoying external sounds, and it seems to be especially effective at curtailing higher frequencies, but if you want a true blanket of silence, you’ll get better results from the AirPods Pro Gen 2, Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II , and Sony WH-1000XM4.
 That said, transparency mode (Nura calls it “social mode”) is excellent both on its own and when you’re using it for phone calls to hear your own voice more clearly.
It’s not quite up to par with the AirPods Pro Gen 2 , in that the mics seem to have their gain (volume) set a bit on the high side, which creates a small amount of noise even when things are quiet, but that’s far from a deal breaker.
I’m a big fan of the way these earbuds fit. I found them very comfortable for several hours of continuous use. Not only does the disc shape of the external housing give you excellent grip as you twist the buds into place, but you also get a choice of anchors. The preinstalled wings are low-profile and yet they offer very good stability, while the optional larger wings create even more contact, ensuring that only the most aggressive, high-impact movements will be able to dislodge them. Not that the NuraTrue Pro are meant to be workout companions — with only an IPX4 water-resistance rating, they’ll definitely handle a bit of sweat, but keep them well clear of the shower.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Unfortunately, call quality is a disappointment, especially when outdoors or anywhere where there’s a lot of background noise. When I originally tried these earbuds, I felt they did a decent job, but those were pre-production units. The full production version I was sent for this review don’t perform as well. They handily mask competing noises, but in doing so they drastically reduce the clarity of your voice in the process. It’s not an uncommon failing in a set of wireless earbuds, but at this price, it feels a lot less forgivable — and it’s a genuine mystery given that the NuraTrue Pro possess a huge number of mics (four per earbud, including one bone-conduction unit). When things are acceptably quiet, the performance is much better, but it still can’t compete with the AirPods Pro Gen 2 or the Jabra Elite 7 Pro.
The controls, as far as touch controls go, are very good. One advantage to the NuraTrue Pro’s unusual disc-shaped design is that it offers a large target area for tapping. Most of the time, I had no problem with accuracy. I also have to give Nura big props for letting us customize these controls any way we please. With four gestures per side (tap, double-tap, triple-tap, plus double-tap-and-hold) you’ve got eight controls to work with. Moreover, you can assign any of the earbuds’ features to any gesture, including immersion and spatial audio.
Battery life, at a claimed eight hours per charge (with an additional 24 hours in the case) is very good. I found that with the volume set around 50%, and ANC turned on, you can get very close to these numbers, with a small decrease as you ramp volume levels up. You get a decent quick charge of one extra hour of playtime for five minutes of charging.
The bottom line: the NuraTrue Pro sound amazing with or without aptX Lossless and they pack enough features to make them worthy competitors to the best earbuds on the market. Trouble is, at $329, they cost considerably more than most of these other earbuds, and it’s not clear to me that their lossless audio capabilities offer an appreciable enough boost to sound quality to justify that premium. Still, if you enjoy knowing that what you’re hearing is precisely what you’re playing, there’s nothing out there that can match the NuraTrue Pro’s CD quality claim (yet).
Editors' Recommendations JLab jumps into hi-res and Bluetooth LE audio with $200 Epic Lab Edition earbuds Bose revamps QuietComfort headphones and earbuds with lossless, hi-res, and spatial audio Jabra’s latest wireless earbuds have Dolby spatial audio Sony updates WH-1000XM5 with head-tracked spatial audio and better multipoint Nura’s personalized earbuds are reborn as the Denon Perl Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Skullcandy's latest wireless earbuds are packed with features, and in typical Skullcandy fashion, they're priced much lower than the competition. The new Skullcandy Rail ($80) and Rail ANC ($100) look very similar to Apple's AirPods Pro 2, and in the case of the Rail ANC, they possess many of the same features. Both models are available on Skullcandy.com starting June 13.
Each Rail model uses the same shape and silicone eartips to seal your ear canal, with touch controls on both earbuds, however, the Rail ANC use transparent plastic for the inside half of the earbud, and they have an extra set of microphones. Here's what you can expect from each Rail version.
Skullcandy Rail Audio / Video Bluetooth, the technology that powers the wireless data connections between billions of devices, is going to become even more capable, with big increases planned for the data bandwidth of Bluetooth LE.
The Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG) -- the organization that's responsible for the ongoing development of Bluetooth technology -- organized a media briefing via Vimeo on May 2, 2023, to outline the changes.
Audio / Video They won't fit a lot of budgets, but if you're an audiophile who has long wished for a set of wireless headphones that can deliver truly lossless, hi-res audio, the Hed Unity are the first product that can grant your wish. The over-ear cans use Wi-Fi as well as Bluetooth and can store hi-res music within their onboard storage for access to those hi-res tracks even when you're not at home on your Wi-Fi network. The price for this ultimate level of wire-free listening? $2,199 and you can order them starting April 12 at getunity.com.
The Unity is the first set of headphones from Hed, a Swiss audio company. The company calls the Unity's Wi-Fi-based audio Full-Fidelity. "We believe that everyone should be able to listen to audiophile quality audio, whenever and wherever, simply and without compromise," said Tim Degraye, Co-Founder of HED Unity in a press release. "It’s time to demystify the process. Once you hear the difference it’s impossible to go back." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
