Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sennheiser Accentum Wireless review: sub-$200 wireless cans hit the sweet spot By Simon Cohen Close $180.00 Affordably priced Superb, balanced sound Light, comfy, and secure fit Very good noise cancellation Excellent transparency mode Hi-res wired/wireless audio Huge battery life Feel a bit cheap May be too tight on larger heads No analog input No storage case or bag Midtier wireless headphones have to perform a three-way balancing act between features, quality, and price. Sennheiser’s philosophy has been to prioritize sound quality over features to create a budget-friendly product that doesn’t sound like a budget-friendly product — even if that means cutting down on some of the bells and whistles found in similarly priced headphones.
Sennheiser Accentum Wireless: design Sennheiser Accentum Wireless: comfort and fit Sennheiser Accentum: controls and connections Sennheiser Accentum: noise canceling and transparency modes Sennheiser Accentum: sound quality Sennheiser Accentum: call quality Sennheiser Accentum: battery life That philosophy is in full force with the Sennheiser’s newest midtier cans, the $180 Sennheiser Accentum Wireless. Though they look very similar to the company’s flagship $399 Momentum 4 Wireless , the Accentum are a far more bare-bones experience.
Sennheiser’s new budget-friendly headphones get a very high-end feature Dyson’s bonkers air-purifying headphones hit the U.S. for $949 Focal’s first wireless headphones promise ANC and hi-fi sound for $799 After spending a week with them, I think the result is one of the best sounding set of sub-$200 noise-canceling headphones you can buy. They should please a lot of people, as long as you’re OK with what you don’t get. What am I talking about? Let’s check them out.
Sennheiser Accentum Wireless: design Sennheiser Accentum Wireless (left) and Momentum 4 Wireless headphones.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends There’s no escaping the similarity between the Accentum and the Momentum 4 when it comes to design. These two wireless cans share a lot of DNA, including the sleek headband shape, the slender sliders, the distinctive angled pivot, and the minimalist earcups.
This is a departure from Sennheiser’s previous approach. The Sennheiser HD 450BT (which the Accentum replaces) looked nothing like the Momentum 4 Wireless or its predecessor, the Momentum 3 Wireless.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends It makes sense that Sennheiser would want to endow the Accentum with the Momentum 4’s halo. But their physical similarity invites additional comparisons, most of which shouldn’t be made. After all, these headphones are in totally different classes. The Accentum are made from lighter, cheaper-feeling plastics. The headband sliders move with almost no resistance — and no notching — and the pivots feel almost loose. Other noise-canceling headphones in this price range, like the Edifier WH950NB and the Skullcandy Crusher ANC 2, have a more upscale feel.
In its efforts to keep costs down, Sennheiser also has sacrificed other features we’ve come to expect around the $200 mark. There’s no zippered carry case — not even a protective bag — and no analog cable. It’s not that Sennheiser wants you to buy your own analog cable — the Accentum can’t be used with analog sources at all. In the fully recyclable box, you’ll find the headphones, a 4-foot USB-A to USB-C cable that can be used for charging and audio (more on that later), and printed instructions.
Sennheiser Accentum Wireless: comfort and fit Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Accentum’s pared-down construction comes with a big upside: these headphones weigh just 7.8 ounces, making them some of the lightest over-ear wireless headphones you can buy.
To put that number into perspective, the Apple AirPods Max are almost twice as heavy at 13.6 ounces.
With excellent clamping force, the Accentum gripped my head securely, and the ear cushions’ padding distributed the pressure evenly, keeping that grip from becoming exhausting.
The earcups are smaller than any of the other headphones I have on hand at the moment, both in overall circumference and depth. You can feel it after several hours — they’re not as roomy or as airy as other models.
I can’t say for sure if everyone will like how they feel — folks with big noggins may find the pressure too much — but I found them very comfortable. Once they were on my head, I forgot all about how they felt in my hands. Any concerns I might have had about the headband adjustments or the pivots disappeared.
I don’t advocate wearing full-size wireless headphones at the gym or when running or cycling — most of these products just aren’t intended for that use. But if you’re determined to do it anyway, the Accentum are the cans to use. Along with their excellent clamping force, their low mass almost eradicates shifting due to movement and keeps you from feeling like your head is always trying to play catchup with your body. Just remember: there’s no official protection from sweat, water, or dust, so don’t be surprised if they don’t take kindly to this kind of activity.
Sennheiser Accentum: controls and connections Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sennheiser keeps things simple with the Accentum’s controls. No touch-sensitive earcups — you get four physical buttons on the right earcup, with a multifunction button for playback and call control flanked by two volume buttons. The fourth button does quadruple duty for power, noise canceling mode, voice assistant access, and Bluetooth pairing.
They’re quite small, but each button is easy to locate and use with your thumb. It might get trickier to use them with gloves on, but at least you’ll still be able to operate them, which is more than I can say for touch controls. The buttons produce an audible and tactile click when pressed — another benefit over touch controls, which don’t always register gestures accurately.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends There are no wear sensors on the Accentum, so you can’t automatically pause your tunes when you remove them. But there is an auto-off timer that can be set in the app, as well as a convenient pause-on-transparency option.
Getting the Accentum paired was easy on both iOS and Android (though there’s no Google Fast Pair support, so you’ll still have to dive into your Bluetooth menu). And with Bluetooth Multipoint support, I was able to connect to a second device simultaneously.
The Sennheiser Smart Control app comes in handy here for managing your paired devices, as well as to confirm which Bluetooth codec is in use. Most Android phones support aptX HD , but it’s nice to get an at-a-glance readout to make sure your handset hasn’t defaulted over to aptX classic or AAC/SBC.
Once connected, the Bluetooth signal remained stable up to 25 feet indoors, and about double that outside. Swapping back and forth between two Multipoint devices was seamless.
Sennheiser Accentum: noise canceling and transparency modes Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sennheiser may have found places to save some money on the Accentum, but it didn’t skimp on the active noise cancellation (ANC). These cans do a very good job of blocking out unwanted sounds — both the intermittent kind like traffic, as well as constant ones like the hum of an electric motor. It’s not class-leading ANC like you’ll find on the Sony WH-1000XM5 , but for the price, it’s superb. I was hard-pressed to tell the difference between the Accentum and the Momentum 4.
In its regular mode, the Accentum don’t do well with wind noise; even a gentle breeze is noticeable. However, wind noise reduction mode deals with this very effectively, albeit by reducing the overall effectiveness of the ANC. Still, it’s better to have a little less quiet and no wind noise.
I encountered a slight glitch during testing. If wind noise reduction mode is active and you use the voice assistant feature to talk to your phone’s AI, it deactivates wind noise mode for that interaction and does not turn it back on afterward. I’ve mentioned the problem to Sennheiser, and hopefully this will get fixed with a firmware update.
The big surprise is the transparency mode. Perhaps I’ve simply become accustomed to mediocre transparency from anyone but Apple, but the Accentum seem especially good at making external sounds — including your own voice — sound natural.
If there’s one downside to the Accentum’s ANC and transparency tech, it’s that you can’t turn it off, even if you open the Smart Control app. You’re either in ANC or transparency mode. This wouldn’t bother me except for the fact that when in ANC mode, with no audio playing, there’s a slight amount of background hiss. If you’re a purist who likes to ban the ANC algorithm from any potential interference it may cause with music playback, these might not be the noise-canceling headphones for you.
Sennheiser Accentum: sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As I said in the introduction, the Sennheiser Accentum offer great sound. Not just great for their price, but great in general. It’s their clarity that you notice most. Many headphones have no problem boosting some frequencies (usually bass) if that’s what you want to hear, but this generally comes at the expense of poorer fidelity in other parts of the spectrum.
The Accentum manage to avoid this trap while still delivering very respectable low-end. Vocals are lively without being overly bright, and the midranges have plenty of detail. Sennheiser keeps a steady hand on the soundstage; it’s precise and open-sounding, but only wide enough to just push things a little outside your head.
Having USB audio as an option is a nice extra. But whether you really need it may come down to your chosen devices. After switching back and forth between USB audio on my Mac and Bluetooth with aptX HD on an Android phone, I’m not sure I could hear much of a difference. Doing the same test between USB audio and Bluetooth with AAC on an iPhone offered more contrast, with USB audio providing a smoother, more detailed sound. It was not, however, the step up over regular Bluetooth that I’d been hoping for.
USB audio also seems to restrict the maximum volume. When connected via Bluetooth, my ability to listen without discomfort tops out at about 85%, but when using USB audio, I can listen to the Accentum all the way at 100%.
Given that, perhaps Sennheiser should have stuck with the analog-in option instead. At least then people could opt to use their own DAC/amp for higher quality.
Sennheiser’s Smart Control app lets you create multiple custom EQ presets in addition to the ones that come prepopulated. You can modify the EQ with the five-band equalizer (with Bass Boost or Podcast modifiers) or you can use Sennheiser’s My Sound Check — a quick and easy tool that runs you through a series of A-B-C comparisons while you listen to your preferred music.
I had mixed results using them. My Sound Check seemed to just put me right back at the neutral factory tuning. The bass boost feature should be avoided; instead of boosting just the lowest frequencies, it seemed to have the opposite effect and diminished all of the other frequencies. I’m just relieved that the Accentum sound as good as they do out of the box.
Now that I’ve had a chance to audition and review multiple Sennheiser models, from the wired, open-back HD 560S and HD 660S2 , to the Momentum 4 and virtually the entire range of Momentum true wireless and CX true wireless earbuds , I feel I have a handle on the company’s sound signature. I’m very confident that if you’ve ever enjoyed Sennheiser’s other products, you’ll like the Accentum too — they very much feel like they’re part of the family.
Sennheiser Accentum: call quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends When indoors, the combination of mic fidelity and a very effective sidetone adjustment make the Accentum an excellent companion for things like voice and video calls.
Outside, what you notice most is the drop in voice fidelity. Your callers will have no trouble understanding you, and external sounds are mostly held at bay, but your voice will sound thinner and distant — like you’re speaking from a couple of feet away.
In some ways this is to be expected. The Accentum only have two beamforming microphones to work with.
If outdoor calls matter a lot, both the Edifier WH950NB and Sony WH-XB910N will do a better job.
Sennheiser Accentum: battery life Simon Cohen / Digital Trends After being roundly criticized for the poor battery life on the Momentum 3 Wireless headphones, Sennheiser has been wildly overcompensating, and I love it. While the Accentum can’t quite hit the astonishing 60 hours offered by the Momentum 4, at 50 hours (even with ANC on), there’s zero reason to complain. That’s well over double what Bose and Apple produce from their best wireless headphones.
Need a quick top-up? A fast-charge feature will give you an extra five hours after 10 minutes worth of charging.
The Sennheiser Accentum offer terrific value in a set of wireless, noise-canceling headphones. They nail the basics, they’re light and comfortable, and they cost under $200. I kind of wish they came with a travel case, but for fans of balanced, high-quality audio — who don’t have room in their budgets for big investments — the only way you’re going to beat the Accentum is if you find a much pricier set of cans on sale.
Editors' Recommendations Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Best wireless earbuds for 2023: Sony, Bose, Soundcore, and more KEF takes a swing at Bose, Sony, and Sennheiser with its first wireless ANC headphones Bowers & Wilkins’ upcoming Px8 are so secret, we can only reveal the price NuraTrue Pro hands-on review: A sneak peek at the lossless future of wireless audio Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Grell Audio isn't a household name, but its founder, Axel Grell, is something of a legend in the audiophile community. As Sennheiser's lead headphones designer for the better part of 30 years, he was a driving force behind the company's line of highly regarded audio products, like the pricey but extraordinary HD800 and HD800S. Now, out on his own, Grell has his sights set on a new goal: To produce a set of true wireless earbuds that don't compromise on sound quality and, perhaps more importantly, don't cost the equivalent of lease payment on a Ferrari. His first attempt is embodied in the Grell TWS/1, a slick-looking set of earbuds that cost $200, and can be pre-ordered from the Grell Audio website starting today and shipping expected by November.
"I always try to create the best possible acoustical experience for the money, no matter the price point," said Axel Grell in a press release. The TWS/1 features and specs seem to support Grell's statement. With the exception of active noise cancellation (ANC), most of the embedded tech appears geared toward a higher standard of audio performance: High precision dynamic drivers, dynamic transducers with a tolerance of +/- 1 db, and strong support for high-quality Bluetooth codecs like SBC, AAC, aptX, aptX HD, aptX adaptive, and LHDC. Grell has even included Sonarworks' SoundID personalized tuning software to help folks adapt the sound of the TWS/1 to their particular hearing profile.
Audio / Video Sony, a company that has historically made very capable but very expensive true wireless earbuds, is now heading into more affordable territory with the $100 WF-C500, a set of earbuds that compete with Jabra's $80 Elite 3. Sony's previous lowest-priced earbuds were the $130 WF-XB700. It also announced its latest full-size noise-canceling wireless headphones, the $250 WH-XB910N. Both models are available for pre-order today at Sony.com, Amazon, and Best Buy.
Compared to Sony's other true wireless offerings like the WF-1000XM3, WF-1000XM4, and WF-SP800N, all of which possess advanced features like active noise cancellation (ANC), transparency mode, in-ear detection, built-in Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, and in the case of the XM4, wireless charging, the C500 are relatively bare-bones. They're still compatible with Sony's Headphones app, and they benefit from Sony's Digitial Sound Enhancement Engine (DSEE), which helps to restore lost high-frequencies in compressed digital music. But otherwise, there are few bells or whistles.
Audio / Video Sennheiser today revealed its most affordable set of active noise-canceling (ANC) true wireless earbuds so far: The $180 CX Plus True Wireless. The new earbuds will be available in either black or white and will hit stores on September 28.
Until now, if you wanted a set of Sennheiser earbuds with ANC, you needed to cough up $300 for the company's Momentum True Wireless 2, a great but pricey product. The new CX Plus appears to be part of Sennheiser's ongoing effort to make its audio technology more accessible. Earlier this year, it cut the price of its $200 CX 400BT True Wireless earbuds by half. In July, it followed up with the $130 CX True Wireless -- offering the same outstanding sound quality but with better battery life and sidetone for phone calls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
