Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Shokz OpenFit review: the most comfortable earbuds in the world By Simon Cohen Close $180.00 Incredibly comfortable and secure Stay fully aware of your surroundings Very good call quality Good battery life Mediocre sound quality Not great for noisy locations No wireless charging Whether you spend $25 or $250 on a set of in-ear wireless earbuds , even the best-fitting pair eventually will cause fatigue and you will breathe a sigh of relief when you remove them. Not so with the OpenFit , a new set of open-ear earbuds from Shokz. Available starting June 28, the OpenFit ($180) come in black or beige and are crafted from ultra-soft and flexible silicone rubber and loop around your ear instead of being wedged inside it. Less than a minute after putting them on, I had completely forgotten I was wearing them.
If it weren’t for a few compromises on features and sound quality, I’d want them as my exclusive go-to headphones.
 But I’ll get to that in a moment.
The best open-ear earbuds and headphones for 2023 Updating our Sony WF-1000XM5 review Jabra’s $100 Elite 4 are its most affordable ANC earbuds yet Editor’s note: this review was originally published on June 28, 2023. At that time, the OpenFit lacked Bluetooth Multipoint, which contributed to a 6/10 score for the earbuds. Shokz has since added this feature via a firmware update and we have revised our review accordingly.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Shokz (formerly AfterShokz), as its fans already know, is no stranger to the world of open-ear headphones.
 The company’s line of bone-conduction headsets is a favorite of athletes. The neckband design stays firmly anchored in place and they let you hear your music without blocking any of the sounds around you — a key benefit when you need to listen to your coach, your training partner, or simply that truck that is barrelling toward the very intersection you’re trying to cross.
Still, bone-conduction headphones aren’t for everyone. When you send vibrations directly to your inner ear via your skull — you lose fidelity (particularly bass) — and those vibrations can get tiresome as can the clamping force needed to keep the transducers in tight contact with your head.
The OpenFit are different. They use so-called air conduction, meaning that the sound travels through the air (instead of your skull) before reaching your eardrum. Yes, that’s exactly how regular earbuds work too, but with open-ear designs, there’s a much bigger distance between the tiny speakers in the earbuds and your eardrum, so the speakers are usually much larger — and much louder. With no silicone eartips or anchor wings, they’re truly one-size-fits-all — something that’s rarely true in the conventional wireless earbud world.
They’re also extremely light at 0.29 ounces (just 0.1 ounces heavier than the Apple AirPods Pro ) and they exert no pressure on your head. And yet, they cling to your ears so securely, you’ll be able to run or do your workouts without worrying about them dropping off. With an IP54 rating for water and dust resistance , as long as you don’t submerge them, they should have no problem with rain or sweat (just wipe them off when you’re done).
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Shokz told me that the company has been working on the OpenFit since Bose effectively created the open-ear air conduction category with its now-discontinued Bose Sport Open earbuds.
 But there was concern within the Shokz team that maybe air-conduction couldn’t really bridge the gap between regular earbuds and bone-conduction headphones — a fear that Bose’s decision to abandon the Sport Open seemed to justify.
While Shokz was debating, its competitors were moving — fast. In 2022, we took a look at the Sport Open and their two leading alternatives, the Cleer Audio Arc and Oladance Wearable Stereo (OWS) , both of which proved that open-ear air-conduction could be done successfully — especially the Oladance. Both companies are now on their second-gen versions and Oladance will soon release a third-gen device, the OWS Pro.
This partially explains the absence of some features I was expecting on the OpenFit. When the Bose Sport Open debuted in January 2021 for $200, they lacked wireless charging and Bluetooth Multipoint.
 So did the Arc and the OWS.
The newest generation of open-ear earbuds, including the $150 1More Fit S50 and the have both, but the OpenFit’s case doesn’t charge wirelessly.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Still, the OpenFit do come with their own charging case, which extends the life of the earbuds from their basic, up-to-seven hours per charge, to 28 hours of listening. That’s something the Bose, Arc, and OWS all missed when they began this race. Take those battery claims as guidelines. They’re based on 50% volume, which is probably enough for indoors, but definitely not when outside. Phone/video calls will also wear the batteries down faster.
The touch controls work well — once you get used to their slightly angled surface — but they are severely limited. By default, a double tap on either side will perform play/pause, while a tap-and-hold gesture will skip forward using the right earbud and skip backward using the left. That’s all you get. There are also no built-in wear sensors, so removing one or both earbuds won’t automatically pause your audio.
The free Shokz companion app (iOS/ Android ) lets you customize these a bit, but your choices remain constrained. The right-side double tap can be swapped for your choice of skip forward, skip back, and voice assistant access, meanwhile the tap-and-hold gesture can be swapped for volume control or voice assistant access. This means that if you control the volume and have access to Siri or Google Assistant , you must give up the ability to switch tracks. Want volume control and track skipping? You’ll have to choose forward or backward, and you’ll have to make do without your voice assistant.
When it comes to audio quality, the OpenFit are typical for a set of open-ear earbuds. Sitting in a quiet room, they can deliver nearly full-frequency sound. Shokz promises a “powerful bass experience” but that must be a comparison to the company’s bone conduction headphones — compared to regular earbuds, bass is mediocre at best.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends That’s not a criticism of the OpenFit per se. I’ve yet to hear any air-conduction earbuds that actually deliver what I’d call powerful bass. They’re at their best with pop music or any other genre that doesn’t rely on a pounding beat, which might give you pause if your workout playlists are heavy on rap and hip-hop. The app includes several EQ presets and the ability to set your own EQ parameters, but I found that even with the lowest frequencies boosted to the max, bass was only just OK. I was glad, however, of the ability to de-emphasize the higher frequencies, which can get painfully sharp if left at the default EQ setting.
You should also set your expectations in terms of resolution — I found that most music sounds as though it has been compressed. This also seems to be a common effect among air-conduction earbuds.
What you do get is a natural, airy sound — like someone had placed small, invisible stereo speakers beside your head.
Outdoors, things become a bit more challenging. It takes a powerful, high-quality driver and acoustic system to direct sound into your ear without being overcome by competing outside sounds. Virtually all open-fit air-conduction earbuds will fail that test in noisy environments, and the Shokz OpenFit are no exception.
To be fair, it’s less of a concern for music than it is for spoken content. If you miss a few bars of your favorite track, it’s not the end of the world. But even a momentary dropout during a podcast or an audiobook can make you reach for the rewind button. Keep in mind, phone calls are also a type of spoken content.
My advice is that you consider where you’ll be using the OpenFit most often. Indoor gyms that aren’t too crazy with loud spinning classes or treadmills cranked to a full sprint, should be fine, and if your daily run takes you through a park, a beach, or even quiet residential areas, those will work too. Office environments are ideal, as long as they’re not too noisy.
Speaking of offices, the Shokz OpenFit might just be the best earbuds ever made for the workday. Because they’re so comfy, you can leave them on all of the time; their call quality is very good, whether you’re indoors or outdoors, making them ideal for both video and phone calls. With Bluetooth Multipoint, you can seamlessly transition between a phone call on your smartphone to a Teams call on your laptop. It’s also hard to overstate the convenience of being able to leave them on your ears when you’re done with a call.
The only downside is that there are no visible indicators to tell others when you’re on a call, so your coworkers or family may look at you with that head-tilt expression of “are you on the phone?” My wife is an accomplished ice dancer and she borrowed the OpenFit for a few of her training sessions. They let her hear her coach, her dance partner, her dance music (when she was training solo), and perhaps most importantly, she was also able to hear the other skaters — a constant hazard when you don’t have a rink all to yourself. She’s tried several open-ear earbuds lately and so far, the OpenFit are her favorites.
Open-ear air conduction earbuds might not be the silver bullet for folks who want great sound quality and great situational awareness, but if you’re good with their inherent tradeoffs, the Shokz OpenFit are just about perfect if you need earbuds you can wear for long periods of time. Their comfort and secure fit are the best you can get right now, and that might just make up for their relatively low-fi audio quality and lack of wireless charging.
Editors' Recommendations Soundcore’s first open-ear earbuds come with an optional neckband 1More gets into the open-ear earbuds race with the Fit S50 and S30 Sony debuts the WF-C700N, its most affordable noise-canceling earbuds Both of Bose’s QuietComfort Earbuds II can now be used independently Bose kills off its Sport Open Earbuds as new players enter the category Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Bose says its new noise-canceling wireless earbuds, the $299 QuietComfort Earbuds II, are the best active noise cancellation (ANC) you can get, period. That goes for over-ear headphones, as well as wireless earbuds. And after getting a demo of these new buds at the launch event in New York City, I believe it.
In a perfect world, wireless earbuds would magically know which sounds we cared about and which ones annoy us, and then completely erase the bad ones, leaving just our music, or maybe the voice of someone we're trying to talk to. The QuietComfort Earbuds II (QCE II) can't quite do that, but they come closer than any other ANC product I've tried -- at least, that was my impression following the demo.
Audio / Video Ultimate Ears (UE) has launched the $449 UE Drops, a new set of wireless earbuds that are custom-made and hand-crafted to fit each person's ears perfectly. They come in three colors -- Sapphire, Rose Quartz, and Onyx -- and UE has intentionally kept the exterior logo-free.
At $449, the Drops are among the most expensive wireless earbuds you can buy, but for folks who have struggled to find a comfortable set of buds, the Drops might well be worth their lofty price.
Audio / Video Jabra is using CES 2022 to bring our attention to the newest member of its Elite family of true wireless earbuds: The $119 Elite 4 Active, a set of waterproof, active noise canceling (ANC) earbuds that fit between the $99 Elite 3 and the $180 Elite 7 Active. They're available starting January 3, in navy, black and light mint.
Like the more expensive Elite 7 Active, Jabra says the Elite 4 Active offer a secure and comfortable fit without the need for hooks or wingtips, but don't expect the 4 Active to be quite as secure as the 7 -- they don't have the 7's ShakeGrip rubber coating. With an IP57 rating, however, the Elite 4 Active have the same level of protection from water and dust as the Elite 7 Active.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
