Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sony WF-1000XM4 review: Almost perfect wireless earbuds By Simon Cohen Close $280.00 Great sound quality Good battery life Excellent noise cancellation Wireless charging May not fit small ears Slightly lacking in high-end detail Sony’s eagerly anticipated follow-up to its very highly rated WF-1000XM3 noise-canceling true wireless earbuds is finally here. The WF-1000XM4 cost $280, and they address even our very few critiques of the XM3 with a laundry list of improvements — some big, some small.
Video Review What’s in the box Design Comfort, controls, and connections Sound quality Noise cancellation and transparency Battery life Voice assistant compatibility Call quality Our take Has Sony once again established a new benchmark for the true wireless world, or does it still have some work to do? Let’s get into it.
Best wireless earbuds for 2023: Sony, Bose, Soundcore, and more Sony updates WH-1000XM5 with head-tracked spatial audio and better multipoint Leaked images suggests Sony WF-1000XM5 will be smaller, rounder Editor’s note: Sony updated the WF-1000XM4 in March 2023 with new firmware that enables Bluetooth Multipoint.
 It hasn’t changed our score, but we’ve updated this review to reflect the enhancement.
Video Review What’s in the box Simon Cohen / Digital Trends First of all, big props to Sony for creating packaging that should be adopted as an industry standard. The XM4 come in a tiny box that eschews all the flashy labeling and glossy prints you’ll see on boxes from companies like JBL and Soundcore. As a result, every piece can be recycled or composted.
The only hint of plastic is in the thin exterior wrapping band that holds the two halves of the box together. Once opened, there’s no way to close it again, but I’m willing to bet most people discard their earbuds packages anyway, which is really the whole point.
Inside you’ll find the WF-1000XM4 already tucked into their charging case, a short USB-C charging cable, two extra sizes of foam eartips (the mediums are pre-installed), and some printed instructions.
Design Sony WF-1000XM3 (left) and WF-1000XM4 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As much as we heap praise on the WF-1000XM3, they’ve always had one big caveat: They are among the bulkiest buds you can buy that aren’t specifically designed for aggressive workouts. That goes for the earbuds and their copper-topped charging case.
The WF-1000XM4 earbuds are 10% smaller than the XM3, which is good but not earth-shattering. The charging case, on the other hand, is 40% smaller, and it now has wireless charging as an option. That’s a big deal. The case still isn’t AirPods Pro small, but it’s no longer the odd man out when looking at the rest of the true wireless options. I’m now comfortable calling it a pocketable case — which I couldn’t say of the XM3.
The touch-sensitive control surfaces are now way easier to accurately tap.
The case lid opens easily and stays open on its own until you close it, which it does with a satisfying snap. But getting the earbuds takes a surprising amount of effort compared with the XM3 due to incredibly strong magnets and the tight shape of the charging socket. On the plus side, those magnets also grab the earbuds the moment they come close to the sockets, instantly and securely reseating them.
The other big change is the shape of the earbuds themselves. For years, Sony used the same capsule shape for its true wireless earbuds, with the bulk of the body protruding significantly from your ear. For the XM4, Sony’s designers tried something completely different, creating a more compact, rounded housing that sits much closer. It looks much better in my opinion, though there may be some disagreement over the look of the prominent copper-capped microphone enclosures. And it’s not just for looks: The touch-sensitive control surface now occupies almost 100% of the exposed portion of the earbud, making it significantly easier to accurately tap. With the XM3, you had to make sure your fingers connected with a small touch-sensitive circle.
I’m not generally a fan of touch controls, but the XM4 could make me a convert.
It’s also worth noting that Sony has addressed one of our other small gripes with the XM3: The lack of waterproofing. With an IPX4 rating, the XM4 are officially sweatproof for the gym or wherever else you need to take them.
Comfort, controls, and connections Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I find the WF-1000XM4 quite comfortable to wear, but I’m not convinced everyone will agree. The new shape is designed to fit within your concha — the cavity that leads to the ear canal. But the XM4 are quite large. If you happen to have small ears, you might not be able to insert them all the way. The XM3, by comparison, have a much smaller in-concha “footprint,” to use an awkward metaphor.
The XM4 feel bigger in my ears than most of the top contenders, including the Jabra Elite 85t , Apple AirPods Pro , Master & Dynamic MW08 , and JBL Tour Pro+.
The foam eartips conform to your ear shape better than silicone: You won’t have to struggle to find a set that fits.
If your ears can accommodate the XM4’s larger shape, you’ll be rewarded with a very secure fit. There’s a ton of surface contact, and once inserted, they won’t be going anywhere. They inspire much more confidence than their predecessors.
While the XM3 were available with silicone eartips, the XM4 exclusively come with memory foam. They conform to your ear shape better than silicone, which means you probably won’t have to struggle as much to find a set that fits. But they also create a stronger sense of having an object lodged in your ear canal, and they break down faster than silicone.
I’m not generally a fan of touch controls, but the XM4 could make me a convert. The generous size of the touch pads makes taps easy, accurate, and quick.
I’m less enthusiastic about Sony’s control customization scheme, which it has kept from the XM3. The Headphones app groups controls by function: Ambient, playback, volume, and none. Because each earbud can be assigned to only one control group, you have to pick your favorite two. Want to control playback and volume? You won’t be able to switch ANC modes. Like ANC control and also playback? Volume is no longer available. JBL does the same thing, so it’s not like this situation is unique to Sony, but I’d prefer more a-la-carte flexibility.
There is a workaround, at least for Android users. The XM4 enable wake-word access to both Google Assistant and Alexa when using a phone with Android 6 or higher. Either of these voice assistants can control volume for you, so if you pick playback and ambient for your physical controls, you could always say, “Alexa, turn up the volume.” Wear sensors let you auto-pause and resume playback when you remove or reinsert the earbuds, and they work really well, rapidly responding to changes. If it bugs you, you can disable it in the Headphones app.
The frequency response is strong from end to end, and there’s an incredible depth to the bass.
The excellent Bluetooth connection on the XM4 works very smoothly and allowed me to put 40 or 50 feet between the earbuds and my phone before the connection started to wobble. Unlike the XM3, which would occasionally give me tiny, half-second dropouts, the XM4 never missed a beat. Now that the XM4 have been updated with Bluetooth multipoint, which lets you connect the earbuds to two devices simultaneously, they’re even more useful.
Sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The WF-1000XM4 sound terrific. The frequency response is strong from end to end, and there’s an incredible depth to the bass. I guarantee that anyone who pops them in will enjoy their rich and full sound signature.
But as I jumped back and forth between the XM4 and the XM3, something became apparent: The XM3 exhibit clearer upper midranges and high frequencies that give vocals just a bit more presence. It also adds a level of energy that the XM4 seem to lack.
These observations are based on factory settings, with no EQ adjustments within the Sony Headphones app. Switching the XM4 to “Bright” or “Treble Boost” helps a little, but even then, I think the XM3 are better overall for clarity.
Will you notice this if you just listen to the XM4? I doubt it. It’s really only when you put the two side by side, listening to track after track, that it becomes apparent.
The XM4 are Sony’s first true wireless earbuds to support the company’s high-quality LDAC Bluetooth codec.
 In theory, at least, this should let them reproduce far more nuance than the XM3, which only work with the much lower-bandwidth SBC and AAC codecs. Moreover, the XM4 have DSEE Extreme, Sony’s latest version of its excellent digital signal processing technology, which can upscale lossy digital music like MP3s to a far higher quality.
To be clear, the difference between these two siblings is really a matter of taste. The XM4 do a better job of low-end detail, which you can really hear when songs layer bass guitar, drums, and low-end synthesizers on top of each other. All too often, those elements get smeared together, but the XM4 let you hear them distinctly, which is a real joy. So consider the XM4 an alternative interpretation of Sony’s excellent sound quality, but one that is geared toward those who want to hear extra detail in the low end.
Noise cancellation and transparency Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sony’s noise cancellation tech has always been excellent, and the WF-1000XM4 manage to improve on it. Sony claims the Integrated Processor V1 chip inside the XM4 improves on the XM3’s ANC performance across the board, diminishing external sounds throughout the audible spectrum. I’m inclined to agree.
The XM4 aren’t just better at masking sound; they’re better at doing it invisibly.
One of my benchmark tests for ANC is to run my loud bathroom vent fan, which produces both low and high-frequency sounds. I then turn ANC on and off to listen to the differences and repeat the process at different distances. The XM4 ace this test, killing off close to 90% of the fan’s noise at a distance of 3 feet and 100% when I sit just outside the bathroom.
But the XM4 aren’t just better at masking sound; they’re better at doing it invisibly. Some ANC systems kill external sounds but introduce new ones, like a low-grade hiss that is audible when there’s no music playing. The XM4’s ANC system is very quiet, which is what you want when you need to concentrate in a noisy environment and don’t want to drown out those sounds with music.
Apple’s AirPods Pro established a firm lead over the WF-1000XM3 in this arena, but the XM4 have once again leveled the playing field. But the XM4, even with Sony’s optional wind-noise reduction system, are still not as effective at canceling wind sound as the AirPods Pro.
Transparency mode is also more convenient to use thanks to the new speak-to-chat feature. It uses sensors to figure out when you’re speaking and automatically engages transparency mode while pausing your music. I found it worked really well. The Headphones app lets you toggle it on and off, adjust its sensitivity, and decide how long transparency should remain turned on after it detects your voice.
Battery life Simon Cohen / Digital Trends When fully charged, Sony claims eight hours of play time with ANC turned on and an impressive 12 hours when it’s turned off — a big boost over the XM3’s capacity of six and eight hours, respectively. Several features, like wake-word access to voice assistants and wind-noise reduction, will reduce these numbers, but on the whole, I found they were accurate.
The XM4 also get a faster quick-charge option: A five-minute quick charge adds another hour of playback time, while the XM3 took 10 minutes to gain 90 minutes of playback. The charging case contains enough juice for two full charges, which gives a total listening time of at least 24 hours before you need to go in search of an outlet or wireless charging mat.
Voice assistant compatibility Sony has always taken an agnostic approach to voice assistants on its headphones: You can choose to use your phone’s built-in assistant, or you can switch to Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant.
Android users even get something that has been a rarity on wireless earbuds: The ability to trigger Alexa or Google Assistant by simply speaking their wake words. I tried it with both assistants, and it works as well as the Google Pixel Buds Pro or the Amazon Echo Buds , with each assistant responding quickly and accurately to my voice commands.
Call quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Calling on the WF-1000XM4 is good. Most competing sounds, like traffic, are effectively neutralized, and so is wind noise, which was a weakness of the WF-1000XM3. It’s not perfect: As the earbuds attempt to correct for these external noises — especially wind — it can sound like you’re speaking through several layers of fabric. But since that’s preferable to listening to the annoying whistle of the wind, I think it’s an improvement.
When on a call, the earbuds automatically disengage ANC, but you can still decide to turn it back on or switch to transparency mode, something that not all earbuds let you do mid-call.
Our take Sony has taken the already superb WF-1000XM3 and made meaningful improvements across the board with its new WF-1000XM4. Though the new shape may create fit problems for some, they’re among the best true wireless earbuds you can buy.
Is there a better alternative? Feature for feature, it’s hard to find a set of wireless earbuds that can truly compete with the WF-1000XM4, but there are better options for specific functions.
The AirPods Pro and Bose QuietComfort Earbuds are better for ANC and transparency, with the Bose shining especially brightly for call quality.
The Master & Dynamic MW08 deliver a more nuanced sound quality, with better clarity.
And now that Sony is still selling the WF-1000XM3 for a reduced price of $180, they’re still very much worth your consideration if you’re ok with some missing features like wireless charging and water resistance.
How long will they last? Sony backs the WF-1000XM4 with a one-year warranty, but I expect they’ll last for many years. The build quality and materials are both excellent. The foam eartips will probably need to be replaced every six months with consistent daily wear, but that’s not unusual.
Should you buy them? Absolutely. If you’re looking for wireless earbuds packed with awesome features, excellent ANC, and fantastic sound quality, you can’t go wrong with the WF-1000XM4.
Editors' Recommendations Best noise-canceling earbuds for 2023: from Sony, Soundcore, Jabra, and more Updating our Sony WF-1000XM5 review Sony debuts the WF-C700N, its most affordable noise-canceling earbuds Sony’s new flagship headphones promise best-in-class noise canceling and calling Leak: Are these Sony’s WH-1000XM5 headphones? Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Sony Audio / Video Bang & Olufsen (B&O) has launched its latest wireless earbuds, the $399 Beoplay EX, a model that builds on the technologies found in its previous earbuds by adding greater comfort, larger dynamic drivers, and more protection from dust and water. The Beoplay EX will be available in Anthracite Oxygen on May 5, Gold Tone on May 27, and Black Anthracite sometime in June 2022.
The biggest change from B&O's previous wireless earbuds is the shape. The Beoplay EX adopt a stem-style design that is similar to Apple's AirPods Pro. The company claims this new shape allows it to reduce the size of the housing that sits in your ear -- which should be more comfortable -- while at the same time letting it use a larger driver. The Beoplay EX incorporate a set of 9.2 millimeter dynamic drivers -- the largest ever used by B&O in a set of wireless earbuds. They'll produce a "significant upgrade in the power of each audio moment, without compromising on comfort," according to a company press release.
Audio / Video Jabra is using CES 2022 to bring our attention to the newest member of its Elite family of true wireless earbuds: The $119 Elite 4 Active, a set of waterproof, active noise canceling (ANC) earbuds that fit between the $99 Elite 3 and the $180 Elite 7 Active. They're available starting January 3, in navy, black and light mint.
Like the more expensive Elite 7 Active, Jabra says the Elite 4 Active offer a secure and comfortable fit without the need for hooks or wingtips, but don't expect the 4 Active to be quite as secure as the 7 -- they don't have the 7's ShakeGrip rubber coating. With an IP57 rating, however, the Elite 4 Active have the same level of protection from water and dust as the Elite 7 Active.
Audio / Video We were incredibly impressed with the Jabra Elite 7 Pro, the latest true wireless earbuds from Jabra and somehow an improvement on their excellent previous earbuds. That makes them an easy recommendation for anyone looking for new wireless audio … but there are a lot of true wireless choices today, so we know you may be wondering how the Elite 7 Pro stacks up against the competition.
Here, we’re taking a look how Jabra's $200 earbuds compare to the $250 Sony WF-1000XM4, another pair of wireless earbuds with a focus on sound quality and the latest features. Let’s take a look! Battery life Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
