Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? SoundPeats Opera05 review: golden earbuds for golden ears By Simon Cohen Close $99.00 Great sound Affordable price Decent battery life Unique design Adjustable EQ No control customization No wear sensors No wireless charging It shouldn’t matter what name is on a set of headphones or a Bluetooth speaker.
 If it delivers a great experience for the price, it’s going to get a good score.
Gotta love gold Triple drivers rock Bare-bones buds Save now, spend later But that doesn’t mean I haven’t developed a fondness for certain brands over the years. Take SoundPeats, for example. It’s a tiny company based in China, going up against the likes of Sony, Samsung, Bose, Apple, and Sennheiser — all household names with deep marketing resources.
Sony is finally adding multipoint to its earbuds Can hybrid wireless earbuds fix the lossless audio problem? My first experience with the company was in 2020 with its Truengine SE , a $40 pair of great-sounding wireless earbuds that were absolutely worth every penny. The company has produced a dizzying number of new earbuds since then, and while they haven’t all impressed me like that first set, I think it has a winner its newest buds, the Opera05 ($80 to $100).
Gotta love gold Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Designing earbuds that will be appealing to a huge variety of folks is no easy task. It’s why Apple has standardized the AirPods line using its signature white (despite offering most of its other products in a variety of finishes and colors,) and it’s also why most non-AirPod copycats opt for all-black, or something equally neutral. SoundPeats has done exactly that in the past, but not this time. The Opera05 are gold, and unapologetically so.
The entire touch control surface (complete with a stylized S logo) is gold, as is the band that encircles each earbud and the charging case — even the microphone ports are gold-toned. It’s a lot of gold. I admit, this put me off when I initially unboxed the Opera05, as I am not a big admirer of gold. But the design has grown on me considerably, and while it’s still not my jam, I think there are plenty who will gravitate toward it.
There’s just one problem. The shape of the earbuds, their highly polished exterior, and the way they sit in their charging case, make for very tricky ergonomics. Two weeks after getting them, I’m still struggling to extract the buds from the case without fumbling them.
Though a bit on the chunky side, I found them comfortable to wear, thanks to the small and ergonomic section that sits inside the ear. You get three sizes of eartips to help with the fit.
Triple drivers rock Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I’ll get into some more of the features in a moment, but let me first tell you the best thing about the Opera05: they sound absolutely amazing when you consider their price. SoundPeats has given each earbud two balanced armature (BA) drivers and a 12mm dynamic driver — a setup that’s becoming increasingly common in the wired in-ear monitor world , but is still a rarity in the wireless world. Each of these drivers reproduces specific sets of frequencies instead of relying on a single driver to do them all. When well executed, a hybrid design like this lets you hear more detail, with less overlap between sounds. And while not perfect, the Opera05 is indeed well executed.
Top this design off with Sony’s LDAC Bluetooth codec for wireless hi-res audio when using Android phones and we’re now talking about earbuds that have the potential to rival Sony’s excellent WF-1000XM4 and Sennheiser’s Momentum True Wireless 3 , but for less than half the price.
Don’t get me wrong, the Opera05 can’t quite reach that level of performance, but they manage to outclass the $100 Soundcore Space A40 — a set of excellent LDAC-enabled hi-res earbuds — making them one of the best-sounding set of buds you can get without entering the $200-plus territory.
The bass is punchy yet controlled, and there’s impressive clarity through the mids and highs. Because earbuds literally put sound inside your head, it can be a challenge to open things back up, but the Opera05 did a good job of it, with a soundstage that’s wide enough to keep things from feeling claustrophobic.
The SoundPeats app gives you the ability to tweak EQ if things aren’t quite to your liking, with both presets and a custom 10-band equalizer, though I felt almost no need to do that. If bass feels especially weak, try switching the size of eartips. I did this after a few test tracks and it made a big difference.
Bare-bones buds I’m guessing SoundPeats blew its Opera05 development budget on the fancy triple-driver design because there’s almost nothing else to discuss feature-wise.
There’s no wireless charging, no wear sensors for auto-pause, no ability to customize the tap controls — there isn’t even Bluetooth Multipoint.
 It’s normal for LDAC-capable buds to disable multipoint when using LDAC — these features are often incompatible — but you typically get it back when you turn LDAC off.
You get some protection from sweat and water, but at IPX4 , it’s only just enough to qualify for that description.
There is, however, active noise cancellation (ANC). It does a decent job of reducing some sounds, but it’s not the magical hush of the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II or the Apple AirPods Pro 2 — that’s OK though, for this price, there’s no reason to expect that. My one critique is that there’s no way to customize the controls for this feature. You can’t simply switch between ANC and transparency mode without cycling through a “normal” mode (no ANC, no transparency).
Call quality is very good when you’re in a quiet spot, but the mics struggle with even a light breeze or background sounds. At times, if things get loud, your voice will be totally lost. Even in ideal surroundings, you might end up shouting — the transparency mode doesn’t function during calls so that you can hear your own voice clearly.
Battery life, however, is a bright spot. SoundPeats claims a single charge will last 4.7 hours when using both LDAC and ANC. But if you turn off ANC and force your phone to use the SBC codec, you can get as many as nine hours before needing to recharge. The case holds about 2.7 recharge cycles, which gets you to a maximum of 33 hours, give or take. These numbers all assume a 60% volume level.
Save now, spend later SoundPeats has decided to initially offer the Opera05 via Kickstarter at $80. It claims that if you back the project at this level, you’ll get the earbuds in April 2023. But our usual advice regarding crowdfunding still stands, despite the fact that these are real earbuds, not just a prototype. If you like the look of the Opera05, you might be better off waiting until they hit Amazon, which SoundPeats says will happen later this year, at a $99 price.
Also on offer is the Opera03 — identical to the Opera05 in almost every way except color (they use a rose-gold trim) and number of drivers: the Opera03 use just one BA driver instead of two.
Editors' Recommendations Earfun makes hi-res audio more accessible with affordable earbuds and DAC 1More’s Evo ANC earbuds do wireless hi-res audio for $170 Edifier’s NeoBuds Pro earbuds promise wireless hi-res audio for $99 Headphone Reviews Headphones Product Reviews Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
