Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Turtle Beach Stealth Pro review: high-end gaming headset brings the noise By Giovanni Colantonio Close $330.00 Discrete design Comfortable fit Great audio quality Innovative battery solution Loaded with features Pricey Mic quality is so-so Some complicated features The more “Pro” a headset becomes , the more hurdles its manufacturer must clear. Every added feature is going to need some extra ingenuity to avoid a headset that’s covered in buttons. Each new tweak is sure to drive up the price a little more each time too. There’s a tricky balance to land between ease of use, affordability, quality, and features. You can see those tensions play out in Turtle Beach’s excellent, but somewhat complicated Stealth Pro headset.
Design and comfort Audio quality Battery Features and controls There’s so much going on in the Stealth Pro that it’s hard to run through it all in a concise manner. For a hefty $330, you’re getting great sound quality via its 50mm drivers, powerful active noise cancellation (ANC), two microphone options, a swappable battery, a wireless transmitter that charges an included second battery while you use the other one, compatibility with just about every gaming device, and a sizable customization suite via Turtle Beach’s app. While there’s not so much a catch to all of that, there are some design quirks that allow Turtle Beach to pack it all in.
If you can adapt to some complicated features and have over $300 to spend, the Turtle Beach Stealth Pro is a top-tier gaming headset worth investing in. It’s quickly becoming my go-to audio device thanks to its comfortable design and innovative battery solution that solves one of my biggest gripes with wireless headsets. I just need to teach myself to stop fiddling with it in public.
Design and comfort The biggest compliment that I can give the Stealth Pro is that it doesn’t look like a gaming headset. There’s a trend happening in the space right now where manufacturers are ditching loud, colorful designs for discrete ones that make them more viable as cans you can use in public. Turtle Beach follows that trend here with a simple black and silver design with only a few unobtrusive logos and no RGB accents.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s quite the sturdy headset too, with a metal-reinforced headband that feels like it’ll hold up well in the long run. That can make it feel a little stiff, as there’s a fair amount of resistance when trying to adjust it, but it’s a big upgrade over the overly plastic feel of the base Stealth models. I usually feel a bit self-conscious when testing a gaming headset out on a NYC train ride, but the premium look and feel here put that worry to rest.
I’m especially happy with the comfort factor so far. At first, it felt a little tight and I figured it’d squeeze my head a bit too much. That discomfort never came during my testing thanks to its incredibly soft memory foam ear cushions and headband. I was keeping it on for hours at a time without thinking about it. I’m not entirely sure how it’ll fit bigger heads, but it seems flexible enough that it should adapt easily while retaining a snug fit.
Audio quality It doesn’t come as much of a surprise that the Stealth Pro wins in audio quality. Turtle Beach knows how to make a headset that’s correctly balanced for gaming at this point in its storied career. The 50mm Nanoclear drivers here produce incredibly clear sound where no frequency range feels lost. Bass, mid, and high tones all come through pretty much where I expect them to and Turtle Beach offers a fair amount of customization to tweak the mix to my liking. Naturally, there’s the company’s signature Superhuman Hearing feature , which helps boost sounds like footsteps. Then there’s the audio hub app that lets me easily tweak my EQ presets on the fly too.
I’m especially impressed by the noise cancellation here, which cuts out a ton of sound. Room tone is virtually removed when I’m a game, letting me fully focus my attention on something like Octopath Traveler 2 ’s excellent score.
 There’s a mic monitor available if you want to bring in some outside noise, but I’d suggest fiddling with it through the audio hub app first. At its default, the monitor is incredibly noisy. When using it on a train, I was left with an earful of harsh, peaking audio.
The Stealth Pro is a fantastic gaming headset overall that solves several issues I have with devices like this.
Microphone quality isn’t too bad either, though I find that I’m rarely entirely satisfied with that aspect of gaming headsets — and at $330, this isn’t raising the bar as much as I’d expect. What I do appreciate, though, is that the Stealth Pro includes both an in-line microphone and a detachable boom. The former isn’t preferable, with a hollow, echo-filled tone that picks up a lot of room tone, but it’s nice to have a built-in mic I can use in a pinch if I don’t feel like breaking out the attachment.
The boom produces a much clearer sound that I’d feel a lot more comfortable subjecting my teammates to. It’s a touch tinny, but my voice comes through clearly, with a comparatively light layer of room tone getting through. It can be muted by flipping the microphone up, which can create a slightly annoying microphone handling sound. I also have run into situations where the microphone randomly mutes for a few seconds without me touching it. Despite that, the feature works well considering I can flip it all the way out of my face with ease and get an audio cue confirming it’s off.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The microphone situation is where I start to run into some of the headset’s “premium” quirks. In what seems to be an effort to keep the design as quiet as possible, the microphone jack is covered up by a small plastic cap on the left earcup. Anytime I want to use the mic, I’m left praying that the tiny cover doesn’t get lost, leaving an unsightly hole right on the side. It’s one area where the Stealth Pro feels a bit overdesigned, as an uncovered port off to the edge seems unobtrusive enough. It’s just one of a handful of odd choices you’ll need to live with to get that Pro feeling.
Battery That comes up again with its innovative approach to battery. Turtle Beach says the headset lasts about 12 hours on a charge, which roughly seems accurate (though 10 might be a closer estimate). It’s a little low considering the price tag, but what’s neat is that the battery can be easily removed and replaced with a second one that comes bundled with the headset. Replacing it is as simple as popping off the plastic cover on the left earcup, slotting the new one in, and putting the cap back in place.
Image used with permission by copyright holder OK, I’m being a little cheeky when I say “simple” here. It’s a great idea, but it’s given me some problems as a chronic fiddler. I had one embarrassing mishap where I managed to fling the cover off while on the train, leaving me to scramble to get it back in place, something that’s difficult to do by feeling alone. I won’t criticize Turtle Beach for my own inability to sit still, but it’s certainly a headset that you’ll want to keep your hands off of as much as possible.
There’s another neat component to its battery solution. The Stealth Pro comes bundled with a wireless transmitter that can be easily connected to a PC via USB. The round puck certainly takes up more space than a flash drive-sized dongle, but there’s a good reason for it: It doubles as a battery charger. While I’m wirelessly connected to a device, I’m charging my second battery. When my first one runs out, I simply swap it into the transmitter and pop in a fully charged one. It’s a genius solution that solves those scenarios where your headset dies and you just need to stop using it to charge it. The trade-off is having a large transmitter hanging around, but it does seem worthwhile for the utility.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The only disappointment I have here is that there’s no way to use the Stealth Pro with a wire. I always prefer to have that option in a wireless headset, allowing me to plug in whenever I need to. The swappable battery does reduce the need for that scenario, but it’s still something I’d expect from a headset I’m paying this much for.
Features and controls The real “Pro” aspect comes when digging into its features — though that’s where its quirks are most noticeable too. On the positive side, it’s compatible with just about every gaming system in some way. Bluetooth lets me easily connect to my phone, while the transmitter can be plugged into a docked Switch or Xbox Series X.
 It can always be a little tricky to pair a headset like this to multiple devices, but I found I was able to switch between the transmitter on PC, my Switch via Bluetooth, and my phone without too much fuss.
Part of me wishes certain parts of the Stealth Pro stuck a little closer to the basics.
The impressive feature set can get a bit complicated from there. For example, volume isn’t controlled via a standard dial wheel. Instead, the entire right earcup is a rotating dial that controls volume. It feels a little silly to execute considering how many rotations are needed to hit top volume, but I got used to it.
What’s a little harder to grasp is the wheel’s multiple modes. By using the audio hub app, I can map a secondary function onto the wheel that activates by pressing a button in the center of it. That allows me to adjust my mic monitor volume, ANC level, bass boost, and more. That’s a neat extra, but only one can be assigned at a time. I can’t adjust my Bluetooth volume or my game/chat mix at the same time. It’s a compromise that’s perhaps necessary to get more functionality packed in without 100 buttons, but it does create limitations.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I can feel that tension between wanting to load the Stealth Pro up with features while keeping its design simple. There are only three buttons on the device aside from the mode toggle: a power button, Bluetooth toggle, and a Superhuman Hearing switch. Some of those buttons have multiple functions ,though, which can be hard to keep track of. To mute the in-line mic, for instance, I need to hold the Superhuman Hearing button down for a few seconds. Those three buttons are a little hard to press while wearing the headset too, usually requiring me to take it off so I can even find them (though some texture on the Superhuman Hearing button helps).
Part of me wishes certain parts of the Stealth Pro stuck a little closer to the basics. A traditional mute button and a volume wheel would have sufficed, as would have an uncovered mic jack. Even so, I do feel like I’m nitpicking a little when looking at the big picture. The Stealth Pro is a fantastic gaming headset overall that solves several issues I have with devices like this. A discrete design, great audio quality, swappable batteries — all of these features give me a wireless headset that’s quickly replacing the wired headsets I usually favor on my go-to devices. The only barrier is that $330 price tag, but it’s hard to argue that you’re not getting a truly “Pro” experience for the money.
Editors' Recommendations The best gaming headsets for 2022 Gaming Headphone Reviews Product Reviews Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
