Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Beats Studio Pro headphones temporarily price slashed from $350 to $200 By Jennifer Allen Close Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Headphone deals are looking super sweet right now at Amazon, including this massive $150 discount on the Beats Studio Pro. Only released a few months ago, the Beats Studio Pro look great and sound good too. If you want some seriously stylish cans for less, keep reading while we tell you what else they offer for the price.
Why you should buy the Beats Studio Pro We were impressed by the ever so slick Beats design that the Beats Studio Pro offered when we reviewed them earlier this year. With a comfy and secure fit, they provide clear and balanced sound with lossless USB audio as an option. Via Beats’ custom acoustic platform, you get rich and immersive sound with a choice of two distinct listening modes. These include a fully-adaptive Active Noise Cancelling mode along with a Transparency mode for when you want to listen to your surrounding environment. Lossless audio also offers three distinct built-in sound profiles to help you get things sounding just how you like them.
There’s also personalized spatial audio with dynamic head tracking so that you can feel as if you’re placed at the center of whatever you’re listening to. It’s nice and immersive, helping you feel like you’re really there. Any time you need to take a call, you’ll sound clear too thanks to voice-targeting mics that precisely filter background noise for crisp and clear call performance. These are sure to be some of the best noise-cancelling headphones for many people.
While the Beats Studio Pro lack Bluetooth multipoint support, hi-res codecs, and even wear sensors, you’ll still appreciate the core experience. Comfortable, lightweight, and oh so slick, it’s hard to dislike them, especially while on sale. Up to 40 hours of battery life makes them great workhorses to help entertain you on your commute all week long. There’s also Siri support if you’re hooking these headphones up to an iPhone or other Apple device.
Beats Studio Pro headphones normally cost $350. Right now you can pay just $200 for a pair of these stylish headphones.
 The deal is at Amazon, and it’s a great way of saving a massive 43% off the regular price. Check them out now by hitting the buy button below before the deal ends.
Editors' Recommendations Snag the Bose QuietComfort 45 headphones for $199 (40% off) Don’t miss these 32-inch TV Black Friday deals from just $90 Bose’s new Smart Ultra soundbar just had its price slashed Sennheiser Black Friday deals: Save on soundbars and headphones A big Black Friday sale on Shure microphones and earbuds just started Deals Amazon Headphones Audio / Video Now is the perfect time to treat yourself to some new Sony headphones or wireless earbuds with many Black Friday deals going on at the moment. Sony is known for providing high quality equipment which sounds like it'd be expensive. However, the firm also makes some great affordable options with many Sony devices also featuring among the best sales right now. If you're looking for awesome Sony headphone and wireless earbud Black Friday deals, you're in luck. We've scoured the internet and found all the best deals and offers so you can simply hit the link below to enjoy a sweet discount.
Best Sony headphone Black Friday deals Sony makes many of the best headphones you can buy today. Typically, these headphones are comfortable, provide great sound quality, and are even some of the best noise-canceling headphones around too. While many of us might prefer wireless options, others prefer the higher quality levels of wired cans which is why we've featured both kinds below. Sony aren't just about being some of the best wireless headphones but you can trust in its name across the board, regardless of your budget. Look out for the Sony WH range if you're keen to buy some great priced headphones for regular use, or go for the CH range if you need to go cheaper.
Audio / Video Dyson is known for its bladeless fans and vacuums, but it's a company that's also known for trying out weird and interesting new tech, and one of the latest is the Dyson Zone. It's a combination headphones and air purifier setup for your face, which is certainly interesting, to say the least. Unfortunately, it does cost a pretty penny at a list price of $700, but this Black Friday deal has discounted it to its lowest price ever of just $508 at Amazon. That said, there are only a limited number left, so be sure to pick up a set quickly if you've always been interested in them.
Why you should buy the Dyson Zone Probably one of the first places to start when it comes to the Dyson Zone is the air purifier, which unfortunately got a bad reputation because the product was released right around the time when everybody was worried about getting sick. The purifier isn't rated to handle things like viruses, and it wasn't meant to, but instead to help deal with the increasingly polluted air that folks might experience in cities. The filter works in two ways: first, by filtering 99% of particulates as small as 0.1 microns, and second, by absorbing the fumes you'd find in almost any city, which it does relatively well.
Audio / Video No home theater is complete without easy access to the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime, Max, and more. There are a lot of ways to go about accessing your favorite streaming services, but many of them are quite expensive. One of the most affordable options right now, however, is the Roku Ultra LT, a 4K streaming device that’s marked down from $80 to just $34 at Walmart for Black Friday. This early Black Friday deals makes for a savings of $46.
Why you should buy the Roku Ultra LT Roku is a simple way of getting access to streaming services and other streaming content. Roku makes a number of devices that can suit various home theater and mobile setups. The Roku Streaming Stick 4K is one of the more popular Roku devices, but if you’re looking for something in the mold of the Apple TV, the Roku Ultra LT is the device for you. In fact, the Apple TV 4K and Roku Ultra have a very similar design, the the Roku Ultra coming in with a smaller footprint and just as much accessibility.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
