Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best kids headphones of 2023: for fun, safety, and more By Michael Bizzaco and Derek Malcolm Close Kid-friendly consumer tech is all the rage these days, so it’s no surprise that there’s an entire market of headphones designed exclusively for our young ones. But when we think “kid-friendly,” sometimes we imagine products that are built to be a bit more throwaway than the adult counterparts. That’s not the case with our list of the best headphones for kids, though.
We want our child-tailored headphones to include parental-controlled volume limiters, to ensure our children aren’t harming their eardrums. Pretty much every entry on our list checks this vital box, but we also wanted to point you and yours toward products that offer exceptional noise-cancelling , built-in mics for phone and video calls, as well as long-lasting batteries for schooldays or a long flight.
More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Puro Sound Labs PuroQuiets The best overall kids headphones Exceptional active noise-cancelling Built-in volume limiter Shared listening Wired or wireless playback A little expensive Kids deserve the best when it comes to headphones, which is why we’d like to direct your attention to the top-notch Puro Sound Labs PuroQuiets, an excellent set of active noise-cancelling (ANC) headphones designed specifically for children. Delivering noise isolation levels of up to 78%, and a 22 decibel reduction of background noise, the beauty behind Puro Sound’s digital sound processing is that your child will experience phenomenal sound quality at the lowest and highest volumes, which is limited to 85 decibels for this model — the recommended maximum volume level to protect kids' ears.
With ANC engaged, the PuroQuiets should last up to 23 hours on a single charge, although you may be able to get even better performance with ANC disabled. We’re also glad that Puro Sound thought to include a 3.5mm auxiliary port. This makes the PuroQuiets easy to use with airplane infotainment systems and other headphone jack hardware.
At $140, these are definitely on the more expensive end of child-friendly headphones, but if your kid is constantly listening to music, playing games, or engaged in hybrid learning applications, the PuroQuiets are a true godsend.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Pogs The Gecko The best music headphones for kids 32mm neodymium drivers Sound Clarity Tuning technology Super-durable design Music-sharing cable included A bit big for smaller kids The Bluetooth-powered Gecko headphones are made for growing kids who are getting more into music, starting to form an ear for audio quality, and are generally pickier when it comes to their headphones. The 32mm Neodymium drivers are small enough to be comfortable for kids' ears, but large enough to provide some powerful sound. There's also SafeSound to keep that volume down under 85 decibels. The Sound Clarity Tuning software can also help songs sound their best without having to worry too much about settings. There's also a music-sharing feature with the PogLink cable that can connect multiple headphones together for listening to music with friends.
We're also big fans of the design: The Gecko gets its name from earcups that are designed to stay on even during active times, and the adjustable headband can keep up with rapidly growing tweens, too — although they may be a bit big for smaller kids. Plus, the design is made with drops, twists, and accidental sit-downs in mind, so it should be able to withstand a lot.
Best Black Friday AirPods Deals: Get Apple’s earbuds for $59 Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Image used with permission by copyright holder BuddyPhones School+ The best headphones for school Adaptable fit with volume limiting Hypoallergenic cushioning Mic and accessories included Great for virtual classrooms Best used for virtual classes, not in-person school Designed for younger students from the ground up, the School+ boast volume-limiting circuitry that places a limit on how loud the headphones get, following the under-85 decibels rule. The headphones themselves offer a snug and adaptable fit, but not to a constricting degree. The hypoallergenic cushioning is a nice addition, too, especially for longer classroom sessions where the ears, neck, and head can start to sweat.
Whether they're using them at home for remote learning, in the classroom, or for other shared learning experiences, the included BuddyJack system makes it easy to connect more than one pair of headphones together (up to four at once). There's even a handy in-line mic for speaking and taking calls. Add in the travel bag, decorative stickers, and extra audio cable, and it becomes clear why the BuddyPhones School+ are among the best sets of headphones for at-home learning.
More LilGadgets LilGadgets BestBuds The best earbuds for kids Tangle-free, durable design Passive noise isolation Three earbud fits included Volume limiting is extra-low on these earbuds Not every young listener wants a clunky set of headphones. For those wishing for something more in line with the Apple AirPods or similar earbuds, there are the LilGadgets BestBuds. What we love right off the bat is that these are volume-limited wired buds. Keep in mind, these guys max out at 73 decibels, which is a few decibels shy of the World Health Organization's recommended 85-decibel limit , making these a bit on the quiet side. However, the built-in passive noise isolation should help to balance outside noise against source volume. While not wireless like the much-lauded AirPods, the LilGadgets BestBuds cable is tangle-free and comes with a mini-splitter for connecting another set of buds for shared listening.
BestBuds come with a set of three earbud tips to fit most ear sizes along with a sturdy travel case for hitting the road or taking to the skies. With a comfy fit, easy controls (plus an in-line mic), and three color options (blue, black, and pink), the LilGadgets BestBuds are the perfect starter earbuds.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder JLab JBuddies Pro The best for volume controls Comfortable fit Two switchable volume caps Solid price Shared listening No ANC We certainly don’t want our young ones damaging their eardrums, which is why it’s important to limit the listening volume of their headphones. This is why products like the JLab JBuddies Pro are so important. Not only do these Bluetooth headphones look and sound great, but there’s a built-in volume switch that lets parents pick the max volume that kids can listen to.
The recommended decibel cap is 85 decibels, but the switch can also be toggled to 95 decibels for louder listening environments. You’ll also be able to expect up to 35 listening hours, although this figure will fluctuate based on how loud the headphones are set and whether or not ANC is turned on. We’re also big fans of the 3.5mm Share Port, which allows your little one to connect the JBuddies Pro to another set of wired headphones for shared listening with a sibling or friend.
Image used with permission by copyright holder LilGadgets Untangled Pro The best headphones for sharing Durable materials Passive noise isolation SharePort connection Decibel capping is too high to be entirely safe LilGadgets scores another laurel in our roundup, this time for best sharing capabilities. The Untangled Pro are a rock-solid set of Bluetooth 4.0 headphones made of durable polycarbonate and reinforced stainless steel extenders. If your kids are a bit rough with their electronics, the Untangled Pro are worth it for their endurance alone. For active listeners, the headphones will last up to 12 hours during playback and 180 hours on standby without a charge. Passive noise isolation comes standard with the Untangled, as does volume limiting, with the headphones capped at 93 decibels.
The big feature of the Untangled Pro is the built-in SharePort, which negates a splitter, meaning a friend or sibling can connect a second set of headphones directly to the Untangled, allowing for easy daisy-chaining on a single audio source. The LilGadgets Untangled Pro are available in 10 colors, and the proceeds of each sale go toward a series of antibullying initiatives.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder CozyPhones Kids Headphones The most comfortable headphones for kids Headband design with durable materials Removable fabric for washing Multiple animal designs Sound quality isn't as good as headphones can provide Headphones aren't the best fit for every kid. Active kids may find they always fall off, while others may not like that weight around their ears. There's an alternative, though: these fleece headbands that include built-in, thin speakers for sound in a comfortable package.
The fabric wraps are totally removable from the headphones inside, allowing you to machine-wash the headband between uses, and the included cord is 52 inches long, which provides plenty of slack for connecting to devices in both the front and back of the car. You get a choice of styles, like a fox, panda, purple froggy, and monster, all of which can be easily crammed into a school backpack without worrying too much about damaging components. Do keep in mind the extra length if your youngster tends to get tangled in cords.
Looking for more headphone options? Check out our roundups of the best headphones overall, the best noise-canceling headphones, and the best earbuds.
 If you're shopping on a budget, our best cheap headphones guide may be a better fit.
Editors' Recommendations A massive Sonos Black Friday sale just started at Best Buy All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now The best early Black Friday headphone and earbud deals now Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Music Best Products Headphones Audio / Video Bone conduction headphones have taken the world by storm, and we’re all about this relatively new and exciting audiio technology. If you’ve never seen one of these headsets in the wild, the idea is relatively simple: A series of sound waves are generated by a set of conductors that rest along your jawbone. These waves create vibrations throughout the skull and jaw that our inner ears register as sound.
With traditional headphones and earbuds, sound waves need to pass by our eardrums first, before arriving at the inner ear. This is why bone conduction headphones are ideal for commuters, gym-goers, and loud workplaces. The sounds of your immediate listening environment will still be audible (because your ears are technically headphone-free), but you’ll still be able to enjoy music and podcasts via the vibrations in your cranium. Similarly, open-ear earbuds and headphones are also a good choice for letting in outside sound, but they're not to be confused with bone conduction.
Audio / Video There's no better time to purchase wireless headphones or wireless earbuds than during Black Friday, and this year won't be an exception as different retailers have rolled out eye-catching discounts. If you've got an eye on Beats products, the good news is that there's a lot of Black Friday deals involving the audio accessory brand that you can choose from. In fact, there may be too many of them, so we've gathered our top picks below so you won't have to go through all of them yourself. You better hurry with your purchase though -- with Beats being one of the most popular names in the industry, stocks of these Black Friday headphone and earbud deals may not last long.
Best Beats Headphones Black Friday Deals If you're looking for headphone deals, Beats is an excellent choice because of the brand's trademark style and advanced features. Additionally, there's something for everyone, whether you're just a casual music lover or a creative audio professional, across a wide range of prices starting from the relatively affordable Beats Solo 3 to the premium Beats Studio Pro. You should purchase brand new headphones if you can afford it, but going for a refurbished device is perfectly fine because of retailers' guarantees that they will work without any issues, and that they will still look fresh. You'll have to decide quickly what to buy among the following offers though, as offers for Beats headphones rarely last long due to the massive demand for them.
Audio / Video Bringing a projector into your home theater setup is one of the best ways to step things up as close to the movie theater experience as possible. The technology might seem daunting if you're new to home theater projectors, but today's models are easier to set up and use than ever, can be connected to soundbars and other sound systems with ease, and can be ready to start projecting with only a few short steps.
Capable of throwing images from around 100 to 200 inches in size on a wall or a projector screen, and able to be connected to everything from streaming devices, and game consoles to laptops, smartphones, and more, modern options range from cinema grade 4K laser projector to ultra-rugged and impossibly compact projectors that you can take anywhere, from camping trips to a weekend at the cottage.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
