Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Wow! These JVC true wireless earbuds can be yours for $15 today By Aaron Mamiit Close JVC If you’re on the hunt for the cheapest true wireless earbuds deals that you can buy right now, you should set your sights on the JVC Gumy Mini. From their original price of $30, they’re down to just $15 from Amazon’s Woot, for savings of $15. There may be a lot of time left before the offer expires, but we’re not sure if stocks will last long because these affordable true wireless earbuds may be catching the attention of a lot of shoppers. If you want to take advantage of this bargain, it’s highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the JVC Gumy Mini true wireless earbuds You shouldn’t expect the affordable JVC Gumy Mini to match up to the performance and features of the best wireless earbuds , but overall, they’re pretty good for their cheap price. They may not have active noise cancellation , but they come with customizable tips so you can get a proper seal in your ears for listening to music or making calls. The wireless earbuds also offer an IPX4 rating for water resistance , so they won’t be damaged by splashes of rain or sweat.
The JVC Gumy Mini true wireless earbuds can last up to six hours on a single charge, and an additional nine hours if you include their charging case for a total of 15 hours. Once you remove them from their case, they will automatically turn on and connect to your device. The JVC Gumy Mini will also work with your favorite digital assistant, allowing you to wake them up and interact with them using voice commands.
The JVC Gumy Mini true wireless earbuds were already pretty affordable at their sticker price of $30, so they’re a must-buy right now at just $15, following a $15 discount from Amazon’s Woot. The bargain is slated to last for a few weeks, but you wouldn’t want to wait until the last minute to complete the purchase because stocks may run out long before the end of the sale. In fact, you should think about pushing through with the transaction right now as there’s probably a lot of interest in the JVC Gumy Mini true wireless earbuds at half-price.
Editors' Recommendations All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more A big Black Friday sale on Shure microphones and earbuds just started Snag this TCL soundbar and wireless subwoofer for $49 today Wow! Walmart just discounted these Sony earbuds from $98 to $29 Deals Headphones Audio / Video Walmart just launched their early access Black Friday deals selection. For you, that means big savings on everything and some of the coolest early Black Friday deals available. For instance, you can get this complete surround sound home theater system, including speakers, a soundbar, and subwoofer, for just $139. Normally, it'd be $239, so this deal will save you $100. The only catch is that you'll have to be a Walmart+ member, but since you can get a Walmart+ free trial, that won't even be a bother. To check out this complete surround sound system at a great price, just tap the button below. Keep reading to see about its parts.
Why you should buy the Samsung B-Series Surround Sound Set We consistently find Samsung soundbars to be amongst the best soundbars due to their simplicity of setup, high quality, and affordable pricing. Great features carry over to this set, such as night mode which dampens the volume and keeps rumbly bass to a minimum. Similarly, gaming mode works to perfect directional audio in game, so you know exactly where those pesky enemy footsteps are coming from. Lastly, the voice enhancer pulls and accentuates sounds within the voice spectrum to make dialogue super audible during movies or cutscenes.
Audio / Video If you're looking through headphone deals for a Bluetooth headset that you can use for work, your search will probably end with this offer from Amazon's Woot for the Plantronics Voyager 5200 UC. From its original price of $199, it's down to a very affordable $87, for savings of $112. You won't always get the chance at buying such a dependable Bluetooth headset with a discount of as much as 56% off, so if you're interested, you should proceed with the purchase immediately. While there's still two months left on the offer, stocks may already be running low.
Why you should buy the Plantronics Voyager 5200 UC Bluetooth headset The Plantronics Voyager 5200 UC is a Bluetooth headset that not only works with smartphones through Bluetooth, as it's also capable of connecting to your PC or Mac for meetings on Microsoft Teams and other collaboration platforms. Smart sensor technology will detect if you're in the process of wearing it, and it will seamlessly move your call to the the Bluetooth headset. It also offers moisture protection to make it sweatproof, and it's designed to be comfortable on a wide range of ear shapes.
Audio / Video Amazon is already offering Black Friday deals well ahead of the shopping holiday, and here's one you wouldn't want to miss if you're searching for true wireless earbuds deals -- an $80 discount for the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II, which brings their price down to $199 from $279 originally. We're not sure if the 29% off will remain available for the next few weeks though, so if you don't want to risk missing out on the savings, you should proceed with the purchase as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II The Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II are included in our list of the best wireless earbuds because of their impressive active noise cancellation, which isn't a surprise because Bose pioneered the development of the technology. The Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II will personalize the ANC depending on your surroundings so that all of the external sound is blocked, but you can activate Aware Mode so that you'll be able to listen to what's going on around you without having to take off the wireless earbuds -- this is useful for crossing the street or giving your food order, for example.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
