Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? One of the best Bluetooth headsets for work is 56% off today By Aaron Mamiit Close Plantronics If you’re looking through headphone deals for a Bluetooth headset that you can use for work, your search will probably end with this offer from Amazon’s Woot for the Plantronics Voyager 5200 UC. From its original price of $199, it’s down to a very affordable $87, for savings of $112. You won’t always get the chance at buying such a dependable Bluetooth headset with a discount of as much as 56% off, so if you’re interested, you should proceed with the purchase immediately. While there’s still two months left on the offer, stocks may already be running low.
Why you should buy the Plantronics Voyager 5200 UC Bluetooth headset The Plantronics Voyager 5200 UC is a Bluetooth headset that not only works with smartphones through Bluetooth , as it’s also capable of connecting to your PC or Mac for meetings on Microsoft Teams and other collaboration platforms. Smart sensor technology will detect if you’re in the process of wearing it, and it will seamlessly move your call to the the Bluetooth headset. It also offers moisture protection to make it sweatproof, and it’s designed to be comfortable on a wide range of ear shapes.
To make sure that your calls are crystal clear, the Plantronics Voyager 5200 UC cancels background noise with the help of four omni-directional microphones and digital signal processing, while the brand’s WindSmart technology detects and responds to wind direction if you’re outdoors. The Bluetooth headset offers up to seven hours of talk time and an additional 14 hours through its charging case, as well as up to nine days of standby charge so it will be ready for use any time.
The Plantronics Voyager 5200 UC is the Bluetooth headset that you want to buy for work purposes, especially now that you can get it for a cheap $87 from Amazon’s Woot. The retailer will be offering the device with a $112 discount on its sticker price of $199 for the next two months, but we’re not sure if the bargain will really last that long because stocks may already sell out at any moment. If you think the Plantronics Voyager 5200 UC Bluetooth headset is the perfect addition to your regular workday, don’t hesitate to complete the transaction in order to pocket the savings.
Editors' Recommendations Snag the Bose QuietComfort 45 headphones for $199 (40% off) The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now Deals Headphones Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video This is one of the most attractive OLED TV Black Friday deals in the market right now -- a $1,600 discount from Best Buy for the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV, which slashes its price from $3,600 to $2,000. It's still not cheap even with the savings, but this is the kind of purchase from Best Buy Black Friday TV deals that will totally transform your living room. We're not sure if this offer will remain online through to the shopping holiday though, so if you don't want to miss out, it's highly recommended that you complete the transaction immediately.
Why you should buy the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV You shouldn't underestimate how big the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV is -- you need to consult our guide on what size TV to buy if you have enough space for it. If you do, then you should be looking forward to watching the most popular shows and movies with 4K Ultra HD resolution, with the TV's Neural Quantum Processor with 4K Upscaling capable of upgrading the quality of all kinds of content. The Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV runs on the Tizen platform to grant you access to your favorite streaming services, and it even comes with the Samsung Gaming Hub that collects all video games streaming services in one place.
Audio / Video There's no shortage of QLED TV Black Friday deals this year, but it will be tough to find a better offer than Best Buy's lowered price for the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. Instead of $450, you'll only have to pay nearly half that following a $220 discount, for an eye-catching price of $230 for the shopping holiday. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if you want to take advantage of the huge savings though, because we're pretty sure that this bargain is attracting a lot of shoppers. Proceed with the transaction now so that you don't miss out.
Why you should buy the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV The TCL Q5 4K QLED TV features a 55-inch display with 4K Ultra HD resolution, which guarantees sharp details and lifelike colors when you're watching your favorite shows and movies, and it supports most advanced HDR formats for even better picture quality. Its built-in Google TV platform grants access to all of the most popular streaming services like Netflix and Disney+, while also making the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV compatible with voice commands through smart home devices that are running on Google Assistant or Amazon's Alexa.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
