Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Wow! Walmart just discounted these Sony earbuds from $98 to $29 By Aaron Mamiit Close Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends In one of the most attractive true wireless earbuds deals that we’ve recently seen, the Sony WF-C500 wireless earbuds are down to a very affordable $29 from Walmart, for massive savings of $69 on their original price of $98. This discount is part of the retailer’s early Black Friday deals , but we’re not sure if it will still be available when the shopping holiday arrives. There’s no need to wait because we don’t think these wireless earbuds can get any cheaper, so if you want them you should proceed with the purchase right now.
Why you should buy the Sony WF-C500 wireless earbuds They’re not as powerful and feature-packed as the Sony WF-1000XM5 , which are featured in our list of the best wireless earbuds , but the Sony WF-C500 are pretty decent for their sticker price — and a steal with Walmart’s discount. They may not offer active noise cancellation , but these budget-friendly wireless earbuds provide great audio with Sony’s DSEE technology that’s capable of restoring high-frequency sounds that get lost in the compression process. The Sony WF-C500 also come with physical buttons for functions such as playing and pausing music, skipping tracksm adjusting volume, answering calls, and bringing up your digital assistant.
The Sony WF-C500 wireless earbuds can last up to 10 hours on a single charge, and up to a total of 20 hours with their charging case. You won’t mind wearing them that long because of their comfortable design that conforms to most ear shapes. The wireless earbuds also feature IPX4 water resistance so they won’t get damaged by sweat or sudden rainfall, and they work with Sony’s Headphones Connect app for the option of using just one of them and to activate 360 Reality Audio.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
The Sony WF-C500 wireless earbuds were already pretty affordable to start with for their sticker price of $98, but Walmart’s early Black Friday deals have them down to just $29 following a $69 discount. We’re not sure if stocks will last until the shopping holiday, so it’s highly recommended that you complete the transaction immediately if you’re already looking forward to using the Sony WF-C500 wireless earbuds. If you delay, you may lose this chance to get them for insanely cheap.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs The best early Black Friday headphone and earbud deals now This splashproof Bluetooth speaker just got a big discount The best OLED TV Black Friday deals from Samsung, Sony, and LG Sony Black Friday deals: PS5, TVs, headphones, soundbars, and more Deals Headphones Sony Audio / Video When it comes to a home theater setup bigger can often mean better. That’s certainly the case with the Samsung QE1C 4K QLED TV, but with this TV bigger also means savings. This 70-inch TV makes for one of the best QLED TV deals available when you purchase directly from Samsung, as it’s marked down an impressive $920 from its regular price of $1,800. This brings its sale price to $880, and Samsung is including free shipping with a purchase.
Why you should buy the Samsung 70-inch QE1C 4K QLED TV Samsung is one of the premier names when it comes to 4K TVs. It almost always seems to place a television amongst the best TVs, and it’s regularly regarded as one of the best TV brands. With the QE1C 4K QLED TV, Samsung offers a range of smart features that include access to Samsung’s gaming hub, as well as easy access to your favorite streaming services. This makes the QE1C a great way to kick back with the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime, Max, and more. It also comes with a SolarCell Remote, which gives you full control of your content and features a solar panel for charging.
Audio / Video Over at Amazon, there's a huge sale on Shure microphones and earbuds as part of its early Black Friday deals season. Such price cuts mean you can buy earbuds from $89 and microphones from the same price. If you've been looking out for Shure related early Black Friday headphones and earbuds deals, this is your chance to save big. There are plenty of options in the sale so the best thing to do is hit the button below to see what's out there. If you want a little guidance though, keep reading while we take you through our highlights.
What to shop for in the Shure early Black Friday sale Offering a professional sound isolating experience, the Audio / Video Now is the perfect time to treat yourself to some new Sony headphones or wireless earbuds with many Black Friday deals going on at the moment. Sony is known for providing high quality equipment which sounds like it'd be expensive. However, the firm also makes some great affordable options with many Sony devices also featuring among the best sales right now. If you're looking for awesome Sony headphone and wireless earbud Black Friday deals, you're in luck. We've scoured the internet and found all the best deals and offers so you can simply hit the link below to enjoy a sweet discount.
Best Sony headphone Black Friday deals Sony makes many of the best headphones you can buy today. Typically, these headphones are comfortable, provide great sound quality, and are even some of the best noise-canceling headphones around too. While many of us might prefer wireless options, others prefer the higher quality levels of wired cans which is why we've featured both kinds below. Sony aren't just about being some of the best wireless headphones but you can trust in its name across the board, regardless of your budget. Look out for the Sony WH range if you're keen to buy some great priced headphones for regular use, or go for the CH range if you need to go cheaper.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
