Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Get these popular Sony noise-canceling headphones for $100 today By Aaron Mamiit Close Sony The Sony WHCH720N, a popular pair of noise-canceling wireless headphones because of their relatively affordable price, are currently available for even cheaper than usual as part of Best Buy’s early Black Friday deals.
 From $150, they’re down to $100 after a $50 discount that we’re sure won’t last until the shopping event. It’s unclear if you’ll get another chance at this offer once it expires, so if you’re already looking forward to using these noise-canceling headphones, it’s highly recommended that you complete the transaction before the day ends.
Why you should buy the Sony WHCH720N noise-canceling headphones While the Sony WHCH720N won’t match up to the Sony WH-1000XM5 — which hold the top spot in our list of the best headphones — in terms of features and performance, but they’re still proving to be a pretty popular choice. Their active noise cancellation uses dual noise sensor technology and Sony’s Integrated Processor V1 to stop you from getting disturbed by external sound, but they also offer an adjustable Ambient Sound mode with 20 levels so you can dictate how much to let in from your surroundings.
The Sony WHCH720N wireless headphones are comfortable to wear as they feature an extremely lightweight design, so you won’t mind having them on your head the whole day. They can last up to 35 hours on a single charge, with USB-C quick charging giving back up to 60 minutes of usage after just 3 minutes of being plugged in. The wireless headphones also offer Bluetooth multipoint so you can connect two devices at the same time, and they work with the wake words of Google Assistant and Amazon’s Alexa if you need to ask your preferred digital assistant to do or search for something.
If you’re on the hunt for headphone deals , you should consider Best Buy’s early Black Friday sale for the Sony WHCH720N noise-canceling headphones.
 From their original price of $150, the affordable wireless headphones are on sale for $100, for savings of $50. There’s no telling if stocks will last until the shopping holiday itself though, or if it will return after the offer expires, so to make sure that you don’t miss this chance to get the Sony WHCH720N noise-canceling headphones with a discount, you should proceed with the purchase immediately.
Editors' Recommendations A massive Sonos Black Friday sale just started at Best Buy All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now The best early Black Friday headphone and earbud deals now This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Deals Headphones Audio / Video There's no better time to purchase wireless headphones or wireless earbuds than during Black Friday, and this year won't be an exception as different retailers have rolled out eye-catching discounts. If you've got an eye on Beats products, the good news is that there's a lot of Black Friday deals involving the audio accessory brand that you can choose from. In fact, there may be too many of them, so we've gathered our top picks below so you won't have to go through all of them yourself. You better hurry with your purchase though -- with Beats being one of the most popular names in the industry, stocks of these Black Friday headphone and earbud deals may not last long.
Best Beats Headphones Black Friday Deals If you're looking for headphone deals, Beats is an excellent choice because of the brand's trademark style and advanced features. Additionally, there's something for everyone, whether you're just a casual music lover or a creative audio professional, across a wide range of prices starting from the relatively affordable Beats Solo 3 to the premium Beats Studio Pro. You should purchase brand new headphones if you can afford it, but going for a refurbished device is perfectly fine because of retailers' guarantees that they will work without any issues, and that they will still look fresh. You'll have to decide quickly what to buy among the following offers though, as offers for Beats headphones rarely last long due to the massive demand for them.
Audio / Video If you're always looking for the next advancement in TV tech, you're likely familiar with the concept of 8K television. You probably know that TVs of this style are quite expensive, though, so may have been waiting for prices to die down before buying one. That's a logical approach, and it may be a couple of years yet before 8K programming becomes available to the masses, but with Black Friday deals already here for 2023 the shopper with an eye on the ground has a chance to get one for a steal this year. Arranged by brand, these are our favorite Black Friday TV deals on 8K TVs.
If you haven't completed your home theater setup yet, pair your 8K TV with Black Friday soundbar deals.
Best LG 8K TV Black Friday deals Audio / Video If you don't already know, OLED and QLED panels are totally different, with OLED including millions of individually lit pixels. That allows them to be more vibrant than other panel technologies, but also during dark scenes, you get true blacks because the lights are actually turned off, rather than just dimmed. Unfortunately, OLED panels are expensive, unless you can find some excellent deals. Don't turn away just yet, though, because there are a ton of early Black Friday deals to shop right now -- across many retailers -- and some even included some great discounts on OLED TVs. In fact, we've rounded up all of the best OLED TV Black Friday deals we could find, including one stand out that pretty much everyone should consider.
If an OLED display is just too far out of your price range, you should also check out QLED TV Black Friday deals. Best Buy Black Friday TV deals include a wide variety of options, if you want to compare prices across TV categories.
The best OLED TV Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
