Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 By Andrew Morrisey Close We’re coming up on the holiday shopping season, which means some really fantastic deals on big-screen TVs, making them as affordable as ever. Particularly when you consider that even the best TVs are regular candidates for a discount. 70-inch TVs make a good size for watching sports, and since most TVs nowadays are smart TVs , they’re also a good option if you’re interested in the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max, and more.
 There are a lot of intriguing 70-inch TV deals taking place right now, and we’ve rounded up the best available. These TVs include brands like LG and Samsung, and they’re ready to take center stage in your home theater.
Insignia 70-inch F30 Series LED 4K TV — $450, was $600 Samsung 70-inch Class TU690T Crysal UHD 4K TV — $550, was $650 LG 70-inch UQ75 Series 4K TV — $580, was $630 Samsung 70-inch CU7000 4K TV — $600, was $630 Vizio 70-inch MQ6 Series QLED 4K TV — $675, was $750 Samsung 70-inch Q60C QLED 4K TV — $950, was $1,200 Insignia 70-inch F30 Series LED 4K TV — $450, was $600 Insignia Whether upgrading your home theater or building one from scratch, the Insignia F30 4K TV has everything on the stat sheet. It presents all of your favorite content in breathtaking 4K resolution, and HDR technology provides a wide range of color details and sharper contrast, making movies more immersive and things like sports more impactful. Versatile connectivity ports make it easy to connect home theater peripherals. This TV also offers smart features like Alexa voice control, DTS Studio Sound, and Apple AirPlay. The Insignia 70-inch F30 4K TV is also a Fire TV, which gets you instant access to over 500,000 streaming movies and TV episodes, and access to thousands of channels and apps, including Netflix, Apple TV+, Disney+, Hulu , Prime Video, and more.
Samsung 70-inch Class TU690T Crysal UHD 4K TV — $550, was $650 Samsung Featuring the Samsung Crystal processor with 4K upscaling — to ensure even old non-HD content looks great — this smart Tizen-powered TV will give you exceptional picture quality. Standout features include PurColo, direct LED lighting, HDR support, mobile mirroring so you can cast content to the big screen, a universal guide, and adaptive sound. It also comes with Samsung’s OneRemote, which automatically detects and controls all compatible and connected devices. If your living room TV is due for a 4K upgrade, this is a fantastic choice.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
LG 70-inch UQ75 Series 4K TV — $580, was $630 LG The LG UQ7590 is a great value play. Despite its modest price point, it’s capable of producing a stunning, immersive 4K image. It has an AI processor that enhances picture and sound quality, and webOS 22 allows you to customize your viewing experience with separate accounts and personalized recommendations for every member of your family. It has a game optimizer and dashboard that quickly adjusts settings for gamers, and access to streaming platforms such as Netflix, Prime Video, Apple TV, Disney+, HBO Max, and many others is built right into the TV’s software. This makes a great TV for budget-minded shoppers who still want to push their home theater experience into deeper levels of immersion.
Samsung 70-inch CU7000 4K TV — $600, was $630 Samsung With Samsung almost always among the best TV brands, it manages to deliver even with its more affordable options. The Samsung Cu7000 4K TV delivers amazing 4K picture quality with Crystal UHD technology, and it’s able to upscale older content into the modern 4K resolution as you watch. Its smart capabilities are powered by Tizen, and give you instant access to many of the most popular streaming platforms. This TV works with Alexa , making it easy to integrate your Alexa-enabled devices and expand your smart home setup. It also works with Google Assistant , which allows you to change channels, adjust volume, and control playback with just your voice, as well as Apple AirPlay 2 , which allows you to share content from Apple devices on the TV.
Vizio 70-inch MQ6 Series QLED 4K TV — $675, was $750 Vizio Whether you’re a gamer, a sports nut, or a movie buff, the Vizio MQ6 Series 4K TV has all of the features you need to immerse yourself in all of your favorite content fully. It produces a sharp picture with the stunning clarity of 4K resolution, and to even further increase picture quality, it also has Dolby Vision HDR Bright Mode, which produces more lifelike color accuracy, color saturation, and black detail. This TV also has a processor that is capable of upscaling lower-resolution content into 4K in real time, bringing all of your favorite movies and shows from bygone eras into the modern age. Additionally, gamers will love the gaming technology in this TV, which includes AMD FreeSync, ultra-low input lag, and a game mode that instantly powers on when a console or PC is detected.
Samsung 70-inch Q60C QLED 4K TV — $950, was $1,200 Samsung As owners of any one of the best QLED TVs can attest, QLED technology produces one of the best 4K images available on the market right now. It utilizes dual LEDs and Quantum Dot color to create lifelike images, and an overall immersive home theater experience. This Samsung 70-inch QLED 4K Smart TV does all of that and more, as it’s even able to upscale older content into the modern clarity of 4K resolution. Picture quality is heightened with Quantum HDR technology, and smart TV capabilities include compatibility with voice assistants, object tracking for 3D surround sound, and easy access to built-in streaming services.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more Don’t miss these 32-inch TV Black Friday deals from just $90 The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday Deals Cheapest Prices Audio / Video There's no shortage of QLED TV Black Friday deals this year, but it will be tough to find a better offer than Best Buy's lowered price for the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. Instead of $450, you'll only have to pay nearly half that following a $220 discount, for an eye-catching price of $230 for the shopping holiday. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if you want to take advantage of the huge savings though, because we're pretty sure that this bargain is attracting a lot of shoppers. Proceed with the transaction now so that you don't miss out.
Why you should buy the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV The TCL Q5 4K QLED TV features a 55-inch display with 4K Ultra HD resolution, which guarantees sharp details and lifelike colors when you're watching your favorite shows and movies, and it supports most advanced HDR formats for even better picture quality. Its built-in Google TV platform grants access to all of the most popular streaming services like Netflix and Disney+, while also making the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV compatible with voice commands through smart home devices that are running on Google Assistant or Amazon's Alexa.
Audio / Video If you looked at our article on the best early Samsung Black Friday deals and wanted more TV deals, you weren't alone. Samsung TVs are cool, integrate easily with Samsung soundbars, and are generally considered one of the best TV brands for their focus on accessibility. However, they are usually quite pricey. Take advantage of these deals to get one in your house at an affordable price.
This list doesn't cover Black Friday soundbar deals, but Samsung has quite a few offerings in that departments. Many of the options below come from Best Buy Black Friday TV deals, but Samsung itself has a lot to offer on their own site, which we've also dug into.
Best Samsung Black Friday deals on 4K TVs 4K TVs are of high quality and have been the mainstay in TVs for quite some time. Samsung makes some of the best, and they are among Samsung's most affordable offerings. Check out these Samsung 4K TV deals to snag something affordable: Audio / Video If you're always looking for the next advancement in TV tech, you're likely familiar with the concept of 8K television. You probably know that TVs of this style are quite expensive, though, so may have been waiting for prices to die down before buying one. That's a logical approach, and it may be a couple of years yet before 8K programming becomes available to the masses, but with Black Friday deals already here for 2023 the shopper with an eye on the ground has a chance to get one for a steal this year. Arranged by brand, these are our favorite Black Friday TV deals on 8K TVs.
If you haven't completed your home theater setup yet, pair your 8K TV with Black Friday soundbar deals.
Best LG 8K TV Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
