Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best 75-inch TV deals: Get a large screen for under $500 By John Alexander and Andrew Morrisey Close Checking out all the TV deals but know your heart is set on a 75-inch model? We’ve narrowed things down here to all the best 75-inch TV deals going on at the moment. Encompassing everything from regular 4K TVs to the latest in 8K and Mini-LED technology, there’s something for every budget and need here. Keep reading while we take you through the best options currently available.
Onn. 75-inch 4K TV — $498 Toshiba 75-inch C350 4K TV — $520, was $800 Samsung 75-inch TU690T 4K TV — $580, was $750 LG 75-inch Class 80 Series QNED 4K TV — $1,100, was $1,500 Samsung 75-inch Q70C QLED TV — $1,200, was $1,600 Sony 75-inch Bravia XR X90L LED 4K TV — $1,500, was $2,000 Samsung 75-inch QN800C Neo QLED 8K TV — $3,300, was $4,000 Sony 75-inch Bravia XR Z9K Mini-LED 8K TV — $5,500, was $6,000 Onn. 75-inch 4K TV — $498 Onn.
The Onn. 75-inch 4K TV isn’t technically on sale but it’s an amazing price for a 75-inch 4K TV. Its huge 75-inch screen is teamed up with useful features like three HDMI ports. It also has Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily find movies and TV episodes across thousands of free or paid channels. There’s also the Roku mobile app which means that you can use voice commands to find what you want to watch rather than needing to use the remote. It’s straightforward enough and ideal for those on a budget.
Toshiba 75-inch C350 4K TV — $520, was $800 Toshiba The Toshiba 75-inch C350 4K TV uses Toshiba’s Regza Engine 4K to provide superior picture quality alongside Dolby Vision , HDR and HDR10 support. With better optimized picture quality, it also has an auto low latency game mode for gamers so you get significantly improved input lag along with a smoother gaming experience. There’s also better sound from DTS Virtual: X support along with Alexa and AirPlay compatibility too.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Samsung 75-inch TU690T 4K TV — $580, was $750 Samsung Samsung is one of the best TV brands so even its cheaper TVs are still very good. It has a PurColor Crystal Display so you get colors fine-tuned to how they are meant to look. It’s also a Direct Lit panel which helps ensure blacks and whites are fine-tuned for superior contrast while HDR provides a wide spectrum of colors and visual details. The Crystal Professor 4K does a great job of upscaling non- 4K content while an Universal Guide makes it simple to find what you want to watch.
LG 75-inch Class 80 Series QNED 4K TV — $1,100, was $1,500 LG Electronics The idea of QNED is a bit of a confusing one but we do know that the LG 75-inch Class 80 Series QNED 4K TV offers great picture quality. It combines Quantum Dots with LG’s NanoCell technology so you gain bright and colourful images. Dimming Pro dynamically adjusts the back lights to maintain deep black levels while there’s a dedicated Filmmaker mode to ensure you get to see films how the director intended them. The TV’s a7 AI processor Gen 6 is great for using AI to automatically improve the picture and sound quality too, while there’s a game optimizer mode and two HDMI 2.1 ports for gamers.
Samsung 75-inch Q70C QLED TV — $1,200, was $1,600 Samsung QLED TVs are always worth considering with Samsung knowing how to get the best out of the tech. The Samsung 75-inch Q70C QLED TV has Quantum HDR for superior deep blacks and impressive contrast, while there’s 100% color volume with Quantum Dot technology for lifelike images. There’s also Motion Xcelerator Turbo+ which helps keep things smooth whether you’re watching fast moving action or playing a game. Balanced color is also promised throughout thanks to dedicated warm and cool dual LED backlights.
Sony 75-inch Bravia XR X90L LED 4K TV — $1,500, was $2,000 Zeke Jones / Digital Trends For a fantastic picture, consider the Sony 75-inch Bravia XR X90L LED 4K TV.
 It has intelligent and powerful TV processing thanks to Sony’s Cognitive Processor XR which ensures hundreds of thousands of on-screen elements are processed and remastered without you even noticing. Via its full array LED backlighting, you get balanced light output with fantastic contrast while XR Triluminos Pro enhances the range of hues and saturations with precise detailing.
PlayStation 5 gamers get even more thanks to auto HDR Tone Mapping automatically adjusting the HDR settings on your console.
Dolby Vision and all the other usual features are there too while you’ll love how easy its interface is to use.
Samsung 75-inch QN800C Neo QLED 8K TV — $3,300, was $4,000 Samsung / .
Packed with features, the Samsung 75-inch QN800C Neo QLED 8K TV is ideal if you want to futureproof with an 8K TV. It has Quantum Matrix Pro with Mini LEDs so that you can see a billion colors and enjoy intense contrast with whatever you’re watching. It also has Samsung’s Neural Quantum Processor 8K for upscaling non-8K content. 8K-worthy HDR ensures gorgeous lifelike images. For sound, there’s Dolby Atmos and Object Tracking Sound+ for atmospheric sounds to ensure this is a home cinema like experience.
Sony 75-inch Bravia XR Z9K Mini-LED 8K TV — $5,500, was $6,000 Sony / Sony Sure to be one of the best TVs if you can stretch to it, the Sony 75-inch Bravia XR Z9K Mini-LED 8K TV is something special. It has thousands of mini LEDs which are controlled with XR Backlight Master Drive so you gain unprecedented contrast with deep blacks and natural colors. There’s also the usual Dolby Vision and HDR support as well as XR Triluminos Pro while XR 8K upscaling provides a better picture for anything non-8K too. It’s truly something special while you also gain easy to use controls thanks to Google TV support, voice assistant compatibility, and dedicated enhancements for the PlayStation 5.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now Deals Cheapest Prices Audio / Video This is one of the most attractive OLED TV Black Friday deals in the market right now -- a $1,600 discount from Best Buy for the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV, which slashes its price from $3,600 to $2,000. It's still not cheap even with the savings, but this is the kind of purchase from Best Buy Black Friday TV deals that will totally transform your living room. We're not sure if this offer will remain online through to the shopping holiday though, so if you don't want to miss out, it's highly recommended that you complete the transaction immediately.
Why you should buy the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV You shouldn't underestimate how big the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV is -- you need to consult our guide on what size TV to buy if you have enough space for it. If you do, then you should be looking forward to watching the most popular shows and movies with 4K Ultra HD resolution, with the TV's Neural Quantum Processor with 4K Upscaling capable of upgrading the quality of all kinds of content. The Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV runs on the Tizen platform to grant you access to your favorite streaming services, and it even comes with the Samsung Gaming Hub that collects all video games streaming services in one place.
Audio / Video There's no shortage of QLED TV Black Friday deals this year, but it will be tough to find a better offer than Best Buy's lowered price for the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. Instead of $450, you'll only have to pay nearly half that following a $220 discount, for an eye-catching price of $230 for the shopping holiday. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if you want to take advantage of the huge savings though, because we're pretty sure that this bargain is attracting a lot of shoppers. Proceed with the transaction now so that you don't miss out.
Why you should buy the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV The TCL Q5 4K QLED TV features a 55-inch display with 4K Ultra HD resolution, which guarantees sharp details and lifelike colors when you're watching your favorite shows and movies, and it supports most advanced HDR formats for even better picture quality. Its built-in Google TV platform grants access to all of the most popular streaming services like Netflix and Disney+, while also making the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV compatible with voice commands through smart home devices that are running on Google Assistant or Amazon's Alexa.
Audio / Video If you looked at our article on the best early Samsung Black Friday deals and wanted more TV deals, you weren't alone. Samsung TVs are cool, integrate easily with Samsung soundbars, and are generally considered one of the best TV brands for their focus on accessibility. However, they are usually quite pricey. Take advantage of these deals to get one in your house at an affordable price.
This list doesn't cover Black Friday soundbar deals, but Samsung has quite a few offerings in that departments. Many of the options below come from Best Buy Black Friday TV deals, but Samsung itself has a lot to offer on their own site, which we've also dug into.
Best Samsung Black Friday deals on 4K TVs 4K TVs are of high quality and have been the mainstay in TVs for quite some time. Samsung makes some of the best, and they are among Samsung's most affordable offerings. Check out these Samsung 4K TV deals to snag something affordable: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
