Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides Google TV tips and tricks you need to start using now By Sakshi Udavant Close Powered by Google's impressive recommendation system, the Google TV platform, found on devices like the Chromecast with Google TV and baked in to a wide range of televisions , is great at providing a personalized TV and movie entertainment experience. This is ideal if you're looking to chill out after a hard day without having to worry about what to watch next. But that's not all. Google TV has a lot to offer. Whether you're a seasoned user or someone who just came to know about it now, it's possible you're missing out on some of its awesome features. To help you make the most out of Google TV, here are some tips and tricks you can try.
Customize your home screen Enable app-only mode View your own photos as screensavers Save your favorites in the watchlist Turn off auto-play Turn on game mode Lock the settings Play podcasts on your TV Difficulty Duration What You Need Google TV device (TV or Chromecast) Internet connection Google TV remote Customize your home screen You want your TV to offer the best entertainment options when you turn it on, so Google TV lets you customize the home screen to best match your preferences. Here's how to set it up.
Step 1: Go to your profile and then open Settings.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Open the Your services tab. It says Manage services if you're using the mobile app.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 4 early Walmart Black Friday TV deals you should shop right now How to set up the TCL Q6 Google TV This 65-inch mini-LED 4K TV is over $250 off right now Step 3: Select the services you're subscribed to or those that you want to see more often. Just turn on the toggle or check the boxes if you're on the app.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Now your home screen will be full of recommendations from these services.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Enable app-only mode If you find Google TV's recommendations are hit-and-miss, you can choose to see only your apps on the home screen. Here's how.
Step 1: Go to your Profile > Settings > Accounts and Sign-in.
Step 2: Look for the Apps-only mode option. Toggle it on if you only want to see apps on your home screen. Toggle it off if you also want to see content recommendations.
Image used with permission by copyright holder View your own photos as screensavers Who wants to look at a dull, blank screen? Choose to spice up your idle TV by enabling the ambient mode on Google TV. This will let you set up your own photos or any other images of your choice as screensavers.
Step 1: Go to Settings and open the System tab.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Select Ambient mode.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Select the Google Photos option to showcase pictures from your Google Photos account.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Select the More settings button below if you want to choose which photos to display.
Step 5: Choose the appropriate settings to select which albums to display and what the slideshow speed should be.
Step 6: Now, when your Google TV is idle. the screen will display the photos according to the options you selected.
Save your favorites in the watchlist If you have a never-ending list of movies and TV shows you want to watch, consider saving them in the Google TV watchlist to keep track of everything. It's easy to use and works just like any other watchlist, except you can see content from all apps in one place. Here's how to start using it.
Step 1: Select any movie to a TV show that you want to add to your watchlist.
Step 2: On your remote, press and hold the Select button (the white round one).
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Step 3: Now select Add to watchlist.
You can also add titles directly from your browser. Type the name of a movie or TV show in the Google search bar. Now select the Want to watch option.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Now the title will be saved in your watchlist. You can access this list through your TV and the Google TV app.
Step 5: To view this watchlist, go to the Library tab at the top of your home screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 6: You can view all your saved titles and choose to watch any of them whenever you want.
Turn off auto-play How annoying it is when you're just trying to browse through different movies and tv shows but then the trailers start playing loudly? Fortunately, you can stop this menace. Here's how.
Step 1: Go to Settings > Accounts and sign-in.
Step 2: Look for the Auto-play trailer s option. Toggle it off so trailers won't start playing on your home screen while you're browsing the titles.
Step 3: You can turn it back on by toggling it on anytime you change your mind.
Turn on game mode Games are best played on the big screen. Google knows this and lets you make the most out of your gaming session with a special game mode. Here's how to enable it.
Step 1: Go to Settings > Display and sound.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Select Advanced display settings.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Look for the Allow game mode toggle and turn it on. You can also adjust the resolution using the Resolution option below.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Enjoy your game(s) and turn the toggle back off when you're done.
Lock the settings If you have kids, there's no predicting what they'll do once they get their hands on the TV. If you want to prevent awkward and frustrating accidents, you can lock the Google TV settings to ensure your child (or maybe a roommate?) doesn't mess up your preferences. Here's how.
Step 1: Go to Settings.
Step 2: Look for the Settings lock toggle. Turn it on to keep the settings locked.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Now no one will be able to change any settings or download third-party apps unless you toggle the option off.
Play podcasts on your TV Who says you can only watch movies and TV shows on your TV? With Google TV, you can also listen to podcasts. This one's quite simple.
Step 1: Use your Google Assistant to say, "Play [Name of the podcast]." Step 2: Google Assistant will pull up the latest episodes of the show and you can start listening instantly. You don't even have to download the Google Podcasts app.
Editors' Recommendations All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now You can get a 65-inch QLED 4K TV for $400 right now (seriously) How to reset the TCL Q6 QLED Google TV Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy Should you buy an obsolete Apple TV? How-To Guides Audio / Video When it comes to streaming live TV in the U.S. (or streaming any kind of video anywhere, for that matter), resolution and bit rate remain as important as ever. And you're now able to enjoy YouTube TV in 4K. Some of it, at least. And if it seems like it's taken forever for that to happen, you're not wrong.
The basic fact is that it takes a lot of bandwidth to stream video — and that's even more difficult when you're talking linear TV, (and more so still if it's a live event like sports). So it's not really that much of a surprise to learn that most live channels stream at 720p resolution — or maybe 1080p if you're lucky. (We'll leave frame rate out of the equation for a minute, but it's a thing, too, especially for sports.) Audio / Video If you've always wanted to buy a huge 4K TV for your living room or bedroom but you don't want to spend more than $500, then this is what you've been waiting for -- the 65-inch LG 65UQ7070ZUE 4K TV for just $458 from Walmart. The $100 in savings on its sticker price of $558 probably won't last long because this is made by one of the best TV brands, so if you want to take advantage of this offer, you're going to have to complete the transaction as soon as possible. If you push it back to tomorrow, you may already be too late.
Why you should buy the 65-inch LG 65UQ7070ZUE 4K TV First of all, you need to check our guide on what size TV to buy to make sure that the 65-inch display of the LG 65UQ7070ZUE 4K TV will fit the space where you're planning to place it. Once you've confirmed that it will, then you're all set for immersive viewing with the TV's 4K Ultra HD resolution for sharp details and vivid colors, powered by LG's α5 Gen5 AI Processor that uses artificial intelligence to enhance picture and sound.
Audio / Video When it comes to smart TVs, these monolithic QLEDs and OLEDs require an internet connection to get you connected to services like Netflix and Disney+. But like any good computer or mobile phone, there’s an operating system taking care of apps, navigation, and all things user interface-oriented behind the scenes. For Samsung TVs, this OS is called Tizen, for LG TVs, it’s webOS, and for brands like Sony, TCL, and Hisense, it used to be called Android TV, but now (for the most part) it’s called Google TV.
While Google TV is really just an evolutionary leap based on the building blocks of Android TV, you’ll still see the Android TV moniker on a modern TV or two. Many modern home theater projectors also use the Android TV OS. That being said, it’s a platform that’s still relevant. Here’s everything you need to know about Android TV.
An important note on Android TV and Google TV Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
