Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features Hisense’s NBA partnership is a slam dunk for the brand By Caleb Denison Close On a recent trip to New York, I got another opportunity to look at Hisense’s 2023 TV lineup and learned a little more about when they might be hitting store shelves. But perhaps more important is that I learned a few intriguing things about how Hisense is operating, how it is positioning itself in the market, and why Hisense’s brand might just be about to have a rather massive breakthrough.
Putting the ball in Hisense’s court Keeping it real … ish Spy wary The proof is in the pudding The event I traveled to in NYC was a pretty big, probably very expensive shindig to announce that Hisense has now partnered with the NBA.
 And while that’s cool for Hisense, it’s not why I thought I was flying from one coast to the other. Fortunately, I ended up getting some good intel out of the trip, as well as another look at the 2023 lineup, including the stunning UX model that debuted at CES.
And I want to share this info — because I think Hisense is about to make some big moves.
Putting the ball in Hisense’s court The National Basketball Association did something like $10 billion in revenue last season. So this partnership Hisense recently brokered has massive potential. Normally, I tend to dismiss these kinds of “partnerships.” But recently, we learned that TCL has partnered with the NFL.
 And with Hisense answering back, it’s hard not to see something brewing.
You Asked: How to add a subwooofer to Apple Homepods, Hisense UX review question Hisense kicks off its U8K mini-LED TV availability with deep discounts Are TCL and Hisense the next LG and Samsung? I think it’s pretty clear that while TCL and Hisense are the No. 2 and No. 3 brands in terms of sales in North America (not necessarily in that order), that does not mean they enjoy the kind of brand recognition and mindshare that, say, Samsung, Sony, and LG do. And that makes it hard for those brands to secure dominance in the U.S. market. Samsung is just way out ahead of them.
But maybe not for long.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends We love our football and basketball here. And if every time someone in North America watches a football game,they get exposed to the TCL brand, or when watching an NBA game, they get exposed to the Hisense brand, all of a sudden, when they walk into a store to look at TVs, those brands are more familiar. I cannot overstate how huge that’s going to be for TCL and Hisense.
TCL and Hisense already were likely to become the next LG and Samsung. But I didn’t feel like I had a read on when that might happen. Until now.
I think that change is going to start happening now.
Keeping it real … ish How is Hisense differentiating itself going forward? I know it isn’t just relying on plastering its logo everywhere.
You know how some other TV manufacturers don’t put the actual refresh rate of their panels on the box or even in the specs section on product pages? Instead of being clear about a 60Hz or 120Hz panel, they print something annoying and arguably misleading, like “480Hz clear motion.” Well, Hisense says it isn’t going to play that game anymore. If its TV has a 60Hz panel, the box says so. If it has 120Hz, it will say that. And, by the way, both the U7K and U8K this year have 144Hz panels. Straight-up.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Hisense also is done playing coy with mini-LED as a premium-only technology. The U6K, which starts at $500 , has a mini-LED backlight system, and it’s all mini-LED up from there. And along the same lines, Hisense is clearly marking its boxes with the peak brightness ratings for its TVs – nobody else does that. Not only is Hisense putting it right out there — which, honestly, is a bit of flex on its own — but it is using conservative numbers. For example, the U7K may say 1,500 nits (OK, technically the box doesn’t say “nits”), but it’s going to go much higher than that. We’ve seen that play out here when I measure the TVs. I asked Hisense America’s president, David Gold, about that, and he said Hisense would rather underpromise and overdeliver than go the much more common route of overpromising and underdelivering. And from a brand perspective, I have a lot of respect for that.
Spy wary I think those are all pretty solid strategies. But will they be enough to earn Hisense universal love and acceptance in North America — especially in the U.S.? I mean, at the end of the day, Hisense is a China-based brand. And in a world where we hear a lot about spying — I mean, Congress is trying to ban TikTok — a lot of folks in the U.S. may look at China-made tech products as being risky.
Can Hisense get over that hump? To be clear, the Hisense TVs we get here are made in Mexico, and they run Google or Roku OS , which are made by U.S. companies. But there will be worries. I read them in the comments all the time.
I think the 2023 TVs will be the highest-value TVs we’ve seen from Hisense yet.
I think Hisense has a pretty good shot. It says it’s already the No. 2 brand in North America by units shipped, though admittedly that’s just for the first two months of 2023, so we’ll see if that sticks. But clearly, Hisense has got a big upward trajectory going for itself. And ultimately, I think that will benefit us as consumers.
Hisense America already has taken the reins and gotten the products it knows we want from corporate in China. I think we will continue to see better and better TVs year after year. And along those lines, I think the 2023 TVs will be the highest-value TVs we’ve seen from Hisense yet. Maybe the best of the bunch this year. We’ll see.
The proof is in the pudding If Hisense can push the U7K and U8K performance up past the U7H and U8H levels we saw last year while keeping the prices about the same or even lower, that’s going to be formidable. And from what I’ve seen so far, I think it has made some considerable progress. The processing definitely looks better this year. I’m going to hold off until I can test these things, but I’m more optimistic than pessimistic right now.
Then there’s the UX. This TV caught a lot of attention at CES because it promised some big things. The only problem was that Hisense was noncommittal about whether it would bring that TV to the U.S. The worry? That a really expensive, albeit hot-rod, TV from Hisense maybe wasn’t something that North American buyers were ready for.
I think Hisense is right to be worried. And it seems as if it is still a bit worried. Because the good news is that the UX will be available in the U.S. The bad news is that there will not be very many of them.
It’s like Hisense is doing a limited run — a special limited edition only for special folks. Maybe it’s trying to create demand with scarcity. But whatever the motivation, it will be hard to get your hands on Hisense’s ridiculously bright and beautiful-looking UX TV. And if you do, you’ll be taking home an 85-inch TV because that’s the only size in which it is available.
So when will we see these TVs in the U.S.? Well, the U6, U7, and 8K models are due “this summer.” Hisense tells me it will be the early part of the third quarter. So we have to wait a bit longer, but not as long as August. I’m thinking late May or early June maybe. As for the UX? Who knows. That could be an end-of-year thing — and heaven knows how expensive it will end up being.
So that’s the deal on Hisense. I think it may end up being a big year for the company, and I’m looking forward to reviewing its TVs to see whether that gut instinct plays out to be true.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Hisense just debuted the world’s largest mini-LED TV at 100 inches Hisense’s mini-LED U6K TV arrives, starting at $500 CES 2023: Hisense’s smallest laser projector is portable and has a huge 150-inch image size Hisense debuts the UX, its brightest mini-LED TV at CES 2023 Features Features Hisense Audio / Video Hisense today announced its first television with Amazon Fire TV — the U6HF. It's launching as a 50-inch model for $530, available for pre-order now. A 58-inch version is expected to be available in the fall for $600.
Specs of note include 4K resolution, of course, as well as support for Dolby Vision, HDR10, and HDR10+. It uses Quantum Dot technology and sports a 60Hz variable refresh rate (up to 240Hz when things get real) and 600 nits of peak brightness. There's also Game Mode Plus to decrease input lag, and an auto low latency mode.
Audio / Video In just a few years, Hisense has evolved from a relatively obscure brand to a company that makes an impressive range of affordable and feature-rich 8K, 4K, and laser TVs. At the end of 2021, the company finally debuted its first 8K TV, the U800GR, but at CES 2022, the company has revealed how the rest of its 4K products will benefit from new technologies like mini-LED backlighting, advanced gaming features, and Google TV, which replaces the older Android TV system on all of Hisense's non-Roku TV ULED models.
Here's the full run-down.
U9H Series Audio / Video We're still several weeks away from CES 2022, but don't tell Hisense that. The company has decided it doesn't need a big, splashy Las Vegas show to show off its big, splashy new Roku TV, which also happens to be its first Roku TV to offer 8K resolution: The Hisense U800GR, which is available December 8 from Best Buy and Amazon for $2,700.
The U800GR packs Hisense's ULED display technology, which in this case means a quantum dot LED panel with a native 120Hz refresh rate and up to 1,000 nits of brightness. Gamers will appreciate the extra smoothness this brings to their fast-action games, as well as the TV's support of auto low-latency mode (ALLM) and variable refresh rate (VRR). You get Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos support, in addition to HDR10 and HLG. Hisense says there are 180 local dimming zones for better contrast and black levels.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
