The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Menu Artificial Intelligence / Tech / Business OpenAI co-founder Greg Brockman is leaving, too OpenAI co-founder Greg Brockman is leaving, too / Hours after OpenAI ousted its CEO, co-founder and former chair Greg Brockman announced that “based on today’s news, i quit.” By Jay Peters , a news editor who writes about technology, video games, and virtual worlds. He’s submitted several accepted emoji proposals to the Unicode Consortium.
| Share this story Sam Altman isn’t the only major OpenAI executive leaving the company on Friday. Hours after Altman was fired , with the board saying it “no longer has confidence in his ability to continue leading OpenAI,” co-founder and former board chair Greg Brockman revealed on X that he is also quitting.
When OpenAI announced the “leadership transition” and that CTO Mira Murati would take over as interim CEO, it said that Brockman would step down as chairman but remain in his role at the company, reporting to the CEO. Just a few hours later, that’s no longer true.
In the post on X (formerly Twitter), Brockman said he sent the following message to OpenAI staffers : hi everyone, i'm super proud of what we’ve all built together since starting in my apartment 8 years ago. we’ve been through tough & great times together, accomplishing so much despite all the reasons it should have been impossible.
but based on today’s news, i quit.
genuinely wishing you all nothing but the best. i continue to believe in the mission of creating safe AGI that benefits all of humanity.
OpenAI unexpectedly announced that it had fired Altman earlier on Friday.
 The company arguably kicked off tech’s current infatuation with artificial intelligence following the explosive popularity of ChatGPT.
Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Apple says iPhones will support RCS in 2024 Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs A hefty stable Steam Deck update gives the Dock a brand-new feature Google’s new Titan security keys are ready for a world without passwords Verge Deals / Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we've tested sent to your inbox daily.
From our sponsor Advertiser Content From More from Artificial Intelligence Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Screens are good, actually The secret environmental cost hiding inside your smart home device Discord is shutting down its AI chatbot Clyde Advertiser Content From Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
