Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Hisense U7K ULED mini-LED TV review: A set for all seasons By Caleb Denison Close $1,050.00 Effective HDR contrast and color Very good backlight control Excellent anti-glare Great for gaming Poor off-angle viewing I think I found it. I think I found the sweet spot for TVs for 2023.
 And it’s the Hisense U7K ULED.
Video review The Hisense lineup and price comparison Design and specs Picture quality Performance The bottom line I admit I had some pretty high hopes for this TV going into this review. Not lofty expectations, just high hopes. And I’m pleased to report my hopes have not been dashed.
Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other Walmart TV deals: 55-inch 4K TV for under $250 and more Hisense’s mini-LED U6K TV arrives, starting at $500 Video review The Hisense lineup and price comparison We’ll start with a quick refresher on where the Hisense U7K stands in Hisense’s TV lineup — and the TV market in general. In Hisense’s lineup, there’s the UX , which is the limited edition, cost-no-object TV.
But for most folks, the real flagship of Hisense’s TV lineup is the U8K , and this U7K sits just below that. You might compare the U7K to TCL’s Q7 , for example. It’s kind of an upper-midlevel TV. Or you could say it’s a lower-level top-tier TV. You know how there’s a pretty fine line between a medium-rare and medium steak? This TV treads a similar fine line.
Size U7K U8K 55 inches $550 $800 65 inches $750 $1,100 75 inches $1,000 $1,600 85 inches $1,700 $2,000 Now, a quick comparison based on prices at the time of publishing, though these will likely vary a bit over time. Above is a breakdown of the Hisense U7K prices at various sizes next to the step-up Hisense U8K prices at those same sizes.
Generally speaking, you can choose to get a larger U7K for the same price as the step-down size of the U8K. So, the 65-inch U7K costs about the same as the 55-inch U8K, and so on. Or, you could just look at it from the perspective that the U7K is just a more affordable than the U8K.
I mention this because we’ll talk a little about whether, given your budget, you might be better off getting a larger screen U7K or a smaller screen U8K.
Design and specs The U7K sports an attractive design with surprisingly solid build quality that you don’t see that often at this price. It has a stamped metal back and solid feet that you can position wide — as we have them in our photos — or more narrowly if you have a smaller stand. The TV comes with a backlit remote, and it’s got a fairly robust speaker system built in, with a subwoofer on the back to add some bass to the rather small down-firing speakers built into the bottom of the chassis. For the price, I think you get a fairly attractive TV.
Like its cousins, the U7K is running Google TV.
Let’s correct some misinformation I’ve heard out there around the U7K across various regions globally: The U7K in North America is not the same as the U7K you’ll get in the U.K., Europe, Australia, or New Zealand. The variation in specs and performance for the U7K is less than it used to be, but the TV I’m reviewing is probably a bit higher performance than what you’ll get elsewhere, so keep that in mind. There are other differences, too. For instance, the U.K. version has a different stand and different remote. If you’ve heard that Hisense has unified specs for its TVs across global regions, that is not accurate information. The disparity is reduced, but it’s still there.
Picture quality Let’s dive into this TV’s picture performance in the segment I like to call Numbers for Nit Nerds.
 I took most of my measurements from the TV’s filmmaker mode preset in both SDR and HDR.
 This time, I used the default color temperature setting of Warm 1 and worked from there, because that’s how the TV is set up out of the box. Some of these measurements are a bit different if you select Warm 2, but as I’ll soon discuss, things looked pretty solid before I did any tweaking.
White balance and color accuracy The white balance in SDR Filmmaker mode was damn good for a TV at this price. Errors were mostly in the bright white areas, with the white trending a little too cool, or blue. It was an easy fix by knocking the blue gain down in the 2-point white balance, which resulted in outstanding results. It was the same for the HDR white balance, which, by the way, must be adjusted separately.
Color accuracy out of the box was very good for SDR and outstanding for HDR. The only rogue colors are green and cyan, and those weren’t significantly out of whack, according to the numbers. The brighter those colors got, the more they strayed from accuracy. But the errors are low enough that most folks will rarely, if ever, pick up on them. I saw 97% of the P3 color gamut and 76% for BT.2020 , and the only notable color errors were at the brightest end of the spectrum. That’s outstanding performance for a TV of this price.
Brightness Now, for everyone’s favorite part: peak brightness. Interestingly, in SDR Filmmaker Mode, the peak brightness out of the box was about 530 nits — and that’s at about 80% on the brightness setting. That’s way too bright for the Accuracy Police. But for most folks, that kind of SDR brightness is gonna be exactly what they want, so while it doesn’t seem to fit the intention of Filmmaker Mode, it’s a smart move for making customers happy.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends You can pull the brightness down for SDR if you watch in a dark room — or you can use the embedded light sensor to make those adjustments based on how bright or dark your room is. But I need to make a big deal out of this: If you want the best brightness this TV can provide, you really need to turn that light sensor off. I found that while it does a decent job of adjusting the brightness depending on your room, it messes around with the white balance in a way I don’t care for. So I turn it off and leave it off.
The story around peak brightness in HDR is kind of interesting. In case you’re new to my TV reviews , Hisense TVs historically outperform their claimed peak brightness. That was true of the U7G and U8G two years ago. It was true last year with the U7H and U8H. And it was even true of the U8K we reviewed earlier this year. For instance: Hisense would print 1,000 nits peak brightness on the box, and the TV would handily outperform that by punching up to, say, 1,300 nits.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends That has not been the case for me with this specific U7H TV sample, but I think I have an outlier here. My readings for peak brightness in HDR with a 10% white window came in at around 750 nits. And when I moved the test pattern to a 25% window, it bumped up to 850 nits.
That’s short of Hisense’s claim of 1,000 nits — as I said, I expected the TV to outperform Hisense’s claims. Ditching the white window for the Spears & Munsil peak HDR highlight pattern, I saw about 600 nits.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Now, I normally don’t do this, but I checked a few other reviews from reviewers I respect, and they were right at about that 1,000-nit peak on their test bench. I’ve rooted around in all the settings and made sure no eco or power saving settings were on, that the local dimming is set to high as it should be, and I even toggled dynamic tone mapping on and off just to see what happened. This sample is just not as bright as those I’m seeing reviewed elsewhere. I don’t think there is anything wrong with the TV, I just think that’s how this sample behaves. Hisense tells me they also think this sample is an outlier, for what it’s worth.
I’m not too worried about it, though, because perceptually, there’s not a ton of difference between 850 nits and 1,000 nits. The average picture level of this TV tracks exactly as expected, with about 550 nits of full-field brightness.
Motion and processing This TV flawlessly performs 3:2 pulldown for judder-free, 24 frames-per-second (fps) movie and TV playback, though there is the predictable stutter in bright areas on slow panning shots due to the TV’s excellent pixel response time. The U7K does have a black frame insertion (BFI) feature and it is, as expected, very flickery and I can’t stand it. But that’s true for almost every TV I review. Still, if you want BFI, it’s available.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Upscaling is very respectable on this TV in general, and great for the price of the TV. It handily outperforms the TCL Q7 in terms of sharpness when upscaling 720p content, though there’s less of a difference from 1080p content. In fact, image processing overall is pretty stellar. You will see some color banding on low-bit-depth sources like YouTube or Sling TV , and unfortunately, the smooth gradation feature doesn’t seem to have much of an effect. I see no improvement with this on low, medium, or high, so I just left it off.
Blooming control is very good. I’d say the TCL Q7 is just slightly better in that one area, but you’d never know it without putting the two side by side. Black levels are generally excellent, and contrast is outstanding for a TV at this price.
Performance The pros Now that we’ve got the technical details covered, let’s speak more broadly about this TV’s performance. I’ve lost count of how many hours I’ve spent watching this TV — just normal, everyday content, from TV shows to YouTube, to live sports, to streaming movies and 4K Blu-rays. Here’s the takeaway: I think the Hisense U7K is the smartest TV buy for most people. I have already recommended it to several friends and a couple of extended family members, and every person who has bought it went out of their way to email or text me to tell me how thrilled they are with their new U7K TV.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends The U7K’s performance is good enough to satisfy a video enthusiast on a tighter budget, and far better than most folks will be expecting when they take it home. It offers awesome color accuracy out of the box — so long as you use Filmmaker Mode or Theater Day or Night. It retains HDR highlights well – this TV rolls off gently, it does not hard clip. It’s brilliant and vibrant for all kinds of content. It upscales your cable, satellite, or DVD collection well, and the user interface is solid and reliable — at least for now.
The motion resolution is quite good on this TV. I watched a lot of fast-moving sports, and I was never disappointed with quick camera moves up and down the basketball court or football field. Movies looked great. TV shows were flawless.
It is, in my opinion, the best value in TV.
The game mode is excellent on this TV. Game mode picture performance is really not all that far off from more accurate picture modes, plus it offers a fun gaming dashboard and supports FreeSync VRR and refresh rates up to 144Hz if you’ve got a PC that can support that. And it even sounds pretty decent, considering most TV speakers just sound downright awful.
The TV just ticks all the right boxes. It is, in my opinion, the best value in TV. It hits that sweet spot of performance and price. You can pay more, but you won’t get a lot more. And you can pay less, but you will get a lot less than this TV offers. I mean, that’s why I’m going to make this a go-to recommendation to anyone who is not a nit nerd.
The cons The TV is not perfect, though. While it has outstanding anti-reflection on it, which minimizes glare, and is a good TV for daytime viewing where you have some sun coming into the home, the off-angle viewing is not good. Now, to be fair, most TVs at this level and even above this level don’t have good off-angle performance. The second you step off from dead center in front of this TV, the contrast and color start washing out. But again, that is par for the course. Hisense could improve the off-angle by using an IPS panel , but the black levels, blooming, and halo issues would take a small hit. Speaking of which, I believe the 75-inch version of this TV does use an IPS panel – so it will have better off-angle viewing, and with more dimming zones. Its black levels and blooming control should still be pretty good, even with an IPS panel – perhaps just not as excellent as we see on the 55-inch and 65-inch models.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Also, this TV – and this may just be a bug, I’m checking with Hisense – kept reducing the peak brightness to 78 in HDR via HDMI sources. I can’t figure out why.
The bottom line If you’ve been wondering if maybe the Hisense U7K might be the right TV for you, I 100% throw my full weight behind this TV. It has been great to live with this TV for a couple of weeks, and I think most of you are going to love it.
Now, for those of you who consider yourself a more casual nit nerd – like you enjoy the company, but you’re not a card-carrying member – you might be wondering if you are better off getting the U7K or the U8K.
 And to anyone who is having a tough time deciding between the two, here’s what you need to know: Zeke Jones / Digital Trends The U8K is a brighter TV. It has a brighter average picture level, and its HDR highlights are also brighter. It’s got a bit more punch to it, and when there’s more ambient light, it can maintain the perception of contrast and color vibrancy just a bit better than the U7K. If you watch during the day a lot, and you want the best possible experience when watching during the day, then I think the U8K is worth the upgrade.
But for most folks, including would-be TV enthusiasts who do most of their watching in a dim-to-dark room, or can at least make it dim or dark when they want, the U7K is all you really need. It’s such a delightfully, surprisingly great TV. It’s better than the TCL Q7 , and while not as great as the TCL QM8 , it gets mighty close for a lot less money.
My final message to you is: Buy with confidence. The Hisense U7K gets two thumbs up from me, and I’m looking forward to recommending it to most folks who call for TV buying advice.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Hisense just debuted the world’s largest mini-LED TV at 100 inches Hisense kicks off its U8K mini-LED TV availability with deep discounts TCL’s 2023 mini-LED 4K TVs are shockingly affordable Sony releases its 2023 TV prices with one very big exception Hisense Product Reviews TV Reviews Audio / Video When it comes to TV technology, Hisense is all-in on mini-LED backlit QLED TVs. The company, which is known for its affordable yet dazzlingly bright TVs, has just revealed its brightest creation yet at CES 2023: the UX, an 85-inch 4K mini-LED QLED TV that is powered by Hisense's new ULED X platform and features more than 20,000 mini-LEDs, which give the UX a claimed peak brightness of 2,500 nits. The company's previous brightest TV, the U8H, had a claimed 1,500 nits but measured closer to 2,000.
That's going to be a very bright display, but Hisense says it can also exert a lot of control over that brightness thanks to more than 5,000 local dimming zones. “Our engineers were tasked with making the best LED TV available, and they delivered with ULED X,” said David Gold, President of Hisense USA, in an emailed press release.
Audio / Video MicroLED technology promises to one day give us absolutely huge TV screens at accessible prices. But that day is not today. Instead, it is being used to create some of the most dazzling -- and exorbitantly expensive -- TVs on the planet, like the stunning, folding 4K M1 TV from Austrian brand, C Seed, which will set you back $400,000. But we've got great news for those who simply refuse to spend more than $200,000 on a folding TV: C Seed has just announced the folding 4K N1 TV, which you can add to your home (or superyacht) for the miserly sum of just $190,000.
But just to keep your expectations in check, $190,000 is the starting price for the N1. For that amount, you're looking at the smallest screen size of just 103-inches. It's available in two larger sizes too (137- and 165-inches), but as they say, if you have to ask how much those sizes cost ...
Audio / Video In just a few years, Hisense has evolved from a relatively obscure brand to a company that makes an impressive range of affordable and feature-rich 8K, 4K, and laser TVs. At the end of 2021, the company finally debuted its first 8K TV, the U800GR, but at CES 2022, the company has revealed how the rest of its 4K products will benefit from new technologies like mini-LED backlighting, advanced gaming features, and Google TV, which replaces the older Android TV system on all of Hisense's non-Roku TV ULED models.
Here's the full run-down.
U9H Series Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
