Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung scales its Terrace outdoor TV to 85 inches with mini-LEDs By Simon Cohen Close Samsung Samsung’s line of Terrace outdoor TVs now has its biggest and brightest model yet. The 85-inch Class Terrace Full Sun is a Neo QLED 4K TV — the first Terrace TV to use Samsung’s mini-LED backlighting.
 At an eye-watering $20,000, it’s not going to be for everyone, but if you have the means and the desire, it can be preordered via Samsung.com between August 29 and September 10.
Samsung says the 85-inch Class Terrace Full Sun can stay bright even on the sunniest days — up to six hours in sunlight at 700 watts and 104 degrees Fahrenheit — thanks to Direct-Sun Protection. The company notes that brightness may decrease to protect the panel from other high temperature and sunlight conditions. Even the included Samsung SolarCell Remote is sun-friendly, and can recharge itself using indoor or outdoor light sources.
Samsung When sun and heat aren’t a concern, the new Terrace model is also rated IP56 for dust and water protection. Basically, as long you don’t toss the TV in the pool, it should be able to weather most outdoor conditions. As with most of Samsung’s high-end 4K TVs, the 85-inch Terrace is equipped with Samsung’s Quantum Processor 4K, which the company says performs 4K upscaling, reduces image noise, and restores lost detail. No Samsung TV currently supports Dolby Vision , but the Terrace does work with HDR10 and HDR10+.
You’ll also find an unusual feature on the massive outdoor TV: an HDBaseT receiver built-in, which lets you (or your installer) run a single Ethernet cable to the Terrace instead of an HDMI cable — a much more flexible and reliable option for long distance cable runs. Samsung SmartThings is built in, letting you control compatible smart home devices from your TV.
Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other Samsung’s biggest Neo QLED 8K TV comes with an equally huge price Hisense kicks off its U8K mini-LED TV availability with deep discounts From a software point of view, the 85-inch TV uses Samsung’s Tizen OS with Samsung Gaming Hub — a collection of over 3,000 games from Xbox, Nvidia GeForce Now, Amazon Luna, Utomik, Antstream Arcade, and Blacknut. The TV’s auto low-latency mode (ALLM) provides low-input lag.
There are over 600 available apps for Tizen, including Samsung TV Plus , Samsung’s free ad-supported TV (FAST) and video on-demand service (AVOD), with over 2,000 channels and thousands of on-demand shows and movies.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Hisense just debuted the world’s largest mini-LED TV at 100 inches TCL’s latest 98-inch 4K TV comes in at a great price Hisense’s mini-LED U6K TV arrives, starting at $500 Samsung takes on TCL with 98-inch 4K TV that costs just $8,000 Samsung Tech News Audio / Video TCL has finally revealed its full lineup of TVs for 2023, and it includes a new flagship that is sure to give Samsung and Sony some sleepless nights. The 98-inch QM8 isn't TCL's first 98-inch TV, and it isn't the first 98-inch TV to sell for $10,000 or less, but it is the first mini-LED-powered 98-inch TV to sell for such a low price. Samsung's only 98-inch 4K, mini-LED TV -- the excellent QN90A -- costs 50% more at $15,000. Even the 85-inch model, at $2,800 is surprisingly affordable compared to similar mini-LED TVs.
TCL QM8 Mini-LED QLED TV First Look | WOW! TCL Outdid Itself (and Everyone Else) Audio / Video If you're in the market for a new TV and you've been patiently waiting to see how much Sony is asking for its 2023 models (and when you can buy them), today's the day you find out. Unless of course, you've been waiting to see what Sony wants for its latest flagship, the A95L 4K QD-OLED. In that case, we're the bearers of bad news: That model, in all three of its planned sizes (55-, 65-, and 77-inches,) is still MIA, and Sony hasn't indicated when that will change.
Sony Bravia A95L 4K QD-OLED TV Sony Audio / Video Need a new TV? If you do, we have all kinds of great posts to help you find the best TV for you, as well as the best options for TVs under $1,000, under $500, and even TVs with specific operating systems like Roku and Google TV. But you're here because you want to make sure you don't lose the farm when buying one and to do that, you want to know: When exactly is the best time to buy a new TV? If you believe the hype and marketing tactics from TV manufacturers and retailers, you’d think it’s always a great time to buy a TV. This, of course, isn't true. You can save significant money on a TV if you bide your time and strike when the deals are to be had. And while it's also a good idea to bookmark our regularly-updated best TV deals posts, a few key times during the year to be extra vigilant include: Springtime when the new TVs of the year start arriving, making for some good deals on last year's models; Amazon Prime Day, which typically lands in the mid-summer; Black Friday/Cyber Monday at the end of November; and the lead-up to Super Bowl because when's a better time to get a big new TV? We're going to get into all of those right now.
Follow the new TV release cycle Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
