Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews AirTV Player review The AirTV is the Sling TV box nobody asked for By Brendan Hesse Close $129.99 Integrates antenna TV with streaming Good app selection with Android TV interface Supports 4K streaming Limited DVR No HDR support Clumsy remote Caters most to Sling TV users Antenna adapter sold separately One of the trade-offs you make when cutting the cord from cable TV is decentralization. Whether it’s multiple devices, multiple subscriptions to different apps and services , or a bit of both, you’re likely to be navigating a fractured content library — and while you’re free of the cable bills and inflated channel listings, juggling those services can get annoying. There are plenty of devices and services that help consolidate everything into one place, but few focus on meshing the two best ways to watch live TV without a cable subscription: live TV streaming services and HD OTA (over the air) channels.
The AirTV ($100) is one of the first to do so. Running a version of Android TV, this tiny set-top box embeds your antenna experience into one of the most popular live TV streaming services, Sling TV.
 Unfortunately, this means the AirTV plays favorites for streaming services as well as its own interface, and coupled with some other glaring faults, makes for a rather unintuitive bundling experience.
Sling TV adds live scores and more for sports fans Best Sling TV deals: all the latest offers for October 2023 Hulu with Live TV: plans, price, channels, bundles and more A standout design The AirTV is constructed into an unassuming box with rounded edges and a pleasant white and blue color scheme. The brighter colors stand out a bit more than the black finish of a Roku Ultra or Apple TV , and it’s a nice change of pace from the endless procession of black boxes likely collecting under your TV. In terms of physical dimensions, it’s on the smaller side, standing an inch high and five inches wide by five inches deep — roughly the same size as the Roku Ultra.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends The front of the box has a small LED that emits a soft, reddish-orange light when the device is on. On the back are several connection ports, including two USB ports, optical audio, Ethernet, and HDMI (the device also supports Wi-Fi, of course).
The design is simple, straightforward, and smartly differentiates itself visually from similar products. The remote, however, is another story.
There’s no other way to say it: The AirTV’s remote is ugly.
There’s no other way to say it: The AirTV’s remote is ugly. It’s wider than it needs to be, the button layout isn’t great, and it looks like a toy.
Its worst functional issue is its poorly labeled buttons. It turns out that a mysterious, black-diamond button in the bottom-left corner takes you to the Android TV interface, but no clear indication of this is made anywhere. No manuals or guides are included with the AirTV, and while you can easily figure a lot of this out by trial and error (or a quick internet search, in our case), even a simple diagram included in the package would have been a big help.
The remote does have a few redeeming qualities, however, most notably the convenient buttons for Sling TV, Netflix, Google search, and voice search via the on-board microphone – a welcome feature at this price point.
A Slinging setup While the AirTV employs the Android TV interface, it leans heavily on Sling TV as a sort of central platform — so much so that it might as well be called the “Sling TV Box.” In that regard, it’s convenient for Sling TV users, especially if it’s your primary (or even only) streaming service, but not necessarily for anyone else.
Setup for Sling TV is a cinch — just sign in with your Sling TV account when prompted during setup, and you’re set. For non-Sling users, it’s not immediately clear what to do.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends AirTV requires you to create a free Sling “guest” account, which is harder than it should be. The option to make a guest account is buried in menus and small text. In fact, if it wasn’t for a short line of text informing us that setup can be done without a Sling TV subscription, we’d have thought Sling TV was a requirement for using the AirTV. It’s not, but this fact feels obfuscated on purpose.
Continuing this trend, Sling TV is what you’ll normally see upon AirTV sign-in. Guest accounts will be subject to large Sling TV ads taking up portions of the screen when browsing certain content tabs. It turns out this can be circumvented by disabling the Sling TV app in the Android TV settings tab, but the ability to do so is never expressly stated anywhere, so some users may never realize it’s possible. We only figured it out after a few minutes of meandering through the Android TV settings.
Using the AirTV is a chore without a Sling TV account.
While using the AirTV was a chore without Sling TV, Sling TV subscribers will be happy to hear that the Sling interface is largely identical here as in other devices, with small additions like an antenna channel’s tab to lineup your broadcast channels, a row of Netflix recommendations, and another for launching other apps, including Sling TV competitors like PlayStation Vue , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , and DirectTV Now.
The Android TV side of the experience is essentially the same as it is on other Android TV devices. Android users can sync their Android account with the AirTV to enmesh it into their Android ecosystem, allowing access to previously purchased content from Google Play or stored on the AirTV drive.
Loading your channels Whether using the Sling TV or Android TV interfaces, we were most impressed by how well the AirTV handles OTA channel setup. Getting any HD antenna synced up with the AirTV is as easy as plugging in your preferred model, plugging in the coaxial-to-USB antenna adapter into one of the two USB slots on the back of the box, and powering on both the adapter and AirTV.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The AirTV will automatically recognize your HD antenna and prompt you to begin scanning for channels. The box even goes the extra mile by scraping for metadata (what’s airing when, episode info, etc.) and applying it to your channel and show listings. The inclusion of broadcast channels is where the AirTV makes its strongest impression and is by far its best feature.
Now, if you were hoping that feature was presented with no strings attached, we’ve got some bad news.
We were impressed by how well it handles setting up OTA channels.
First of all, as mentioned, the OTA channels are stuck inside the Sling TV interface by default, set in a separate tab, instead of being layered into the Sling TV channels pane. We’ll concede that putting those channels into the Sling TV guide might have been unfeasible, but we wish there was an easier way to access them by default. Meanwhile, those without Sling TV will have to download a separate app to view OTA channels via the Android TV interface.
The second issue is that the adapter required to connect your HD antenna is an extra purchase (either $40 separately, or $30 when bundled with the AirTV itself), adding on to the AirTV’s $100 base price to use its best feature — not counting the price of your separate antenna.
What AirTV can (and can’t) do While setup can be a headache, once you’re finally watching, the AirTV performs admirably enough. Picture quality will depend on your internet connection speed and the locations and placement of your HD antenna, but in general movies and TV look good on the AirTV. The box supports 4K playback, so if you have a 4K TV or projector you’ll be able to watch supported content in full resolution.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends The AirTV lacks HDR (high dynamic range) support, however, which is in many ways the more impressive image quality upgrade when watching on a 4K HDR TV. While OTA TV is still stuck in HD, HDR is a disappointing omission for other content, and since the majority of the best 4K streaming devices support HDR in some form, it makes the AirTV that much harder to recommend to 4K TV owners.
Since the AirTV is an Android TV device, there’s a long list of games available. Unfortunately, while you can technically download and play these games, we don’t recommend it; not only does the remote make for an abysmal controller, the 6GB of internal storage and lack of expandable memory means you’ll only be able to download a few games at a time, and some larger titles won’t even fit. If you want an Android TV device that also works for gaming, the Nvidia Shield is a far better choice, with honorable mention going to the Amazon Fire TV 4K.
The lack of HDR, a bad remote, and lackluster UI hamper the experience.
Perhaps the bigger bummer for prospective AirTV customers is that DVR options are limited, depending on your setup. You won’t be able to record OTA TV programming out of the box. To do so, you’ll need to purchase a USB storage device, adding yet another necessary purchase to get the full functionality from the AirTV — and only a few models have been successfully tested with the feature so far.
Even then, DVR functionality is only in beta on the AirTV at the time of this review, and its functionality has several caveats, such as only allowing one channel to be recorded at a time, the inability to watch a recording before it’s finished, and several more.
 All these restrictions and extra steps add up to an inelegant and underwhelming DVR solution.
Thankfully, the cloud DVR for Sling TV and other Live TV services are available, but the messy implementation of the OTA DVR feels like a misstep, specifically because the AirTV makes such a strong push for being an all-in-one solution for streaming and antenna TV.
Warranty information The AirTV comes with a 12-month limited warranty, covering material and workmanship defects, that begins from the moment you sign into Sling on your AirTV for the first time.
Our Take Sling TV fanatics will get the most out of the AirTV, but even for them, issues like the lack of HDR, a bad remote, and a lackluster UI will hamper the experience. Sure, AirTV presents a simple way to couple your antenna and live TV streaming channels into one location, yet that alone isn’t worth recommending it — and getting the fullest experience requires too many extra purchases for what’s presented in the final product.
Is there a better alternative? If you want a streaming device that can do just about everything the AirTV does, and with a much better interface, the Nvidia Shield is your best bet. It does the Android TV thing, and does it much better, without favoring any one platform or app. More important, it supports 4K HDR, can support OTA antennas (when coupled with an antenna tuner like the HDHomeRun or Tablo ), offers DVR functionality, and it can store hours of recordings or even act as a Plex server. It can even store full-quality video games or stream them from the cloud or a PC.
The Shield’s $200 price might seem steep compared to the AirTV at first, but considering you’d be paying $130 for the AirTV with antenna adapter plus a large-capacity USB drive for DVR, there’s not that big a price discrepancy. In addition, the AirTV’s interface all but begs you to spend $20 to $40 per month on Sling TV.
How long will it last? The AirTV itself is well designed, and we aren’t concerned about its durability – the remote might seem toyish, but it also seems dependable enough. Down the road, we see some potential for AirTV’s OTA functionality to continue to grow, but there’s no solid guarantee there, especially considering the limited on-board storage and static user interface.
Should you buy it? No. Even if you’re an avid Sling TV fan there are better options out there for combining streaming and OTA channels.
Editors' Recommendations YouTube TV still leads after latest round of streaming numbers FuboTV: channels, price, plans, packages, and add-ons YouTube TV in 4K: Everything you need to know Sling TV is at its lowest number of subscribers in 5 years YouTube TV: plans, pricing, channels, how to cancel, and more Cord Cutting 101 Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Streaming Services Audio / Video When it comes to streaming options in the U.S., Sling TV plans and prices continue to keep it among the best live TV streaming services available — at least in terms of price. That's largely because it's as close as you can get to true a la carte TV, which theoretically lets you pick and choose your channels. Sling TV isn't quite that -- it's more of a skinny bundle situation. But it's still an extremely good value.
There are, however, some fairly serious caveats. That's in part because of the way Sling packages its channels. But also because there's a strong probability that you won't be able to get all of your local broadcast channels. That's something you need to know upfront.
Audio / Video FuboTV — the fourth-largest live TV streaming service in the U.S. — today announced that it's doing what a good many folks have been doing for some time now. It's dropping the "TV" from its name and shifting its consumer-facing products to "Fubo." And because you can't change your name without telling anyone, it's enlisted the help of NBA Hall of Famer Kevin Garnett and former NFL quarterback Mark Sanchez in an ad campaign to let everyone know.
The new branding will roll out across the company's apps and other products in the coming months.
Audio / Video When it comes to the best streaming services in the U.S., two stand out. And that makes sense because Hulu With Live TV and YouTube TV are the most popular live TV streaming services in the country.
How popular, you ask? Hulu with Live TV had some 4.5 million paid subscribers at the end of 2022. YouTube TV — well, we don't actually know how many subscribers it has. Google last gave an official update of more than 5 million subscribers in July 2022, and it's since said that it has kept adding subscribers. But it hasn't given us any new numbers since then.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
