Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Amazon’s Alexa Voice Remote Pro review: put it in the box already! By Phil Nickinson Close $35.00 The Alexa Voice Remote Pro is the best remote control Amazon has to offer when it comes to its Fire TV device lineup.
 Let’s just get that out there.
As a result, that makes it a bit of an issue that it doesn’t actually come with any of the devices in its Fire TV lineup. Not yet, anyway. Instead, you’ll have to shell out another $35 if you want the best remote you can get.
Amazon debuts its first Fire TV soundbar and faster Fire TV sticks Amazon Fire TV Channels brings even more free TV to the platform Amazon celebrates 200 million Fire TV devices by launching more And therein lies the problem. The Voice Remote Pro costs more than some of the devices it works with. Want to more than double the cost of your Fire TV Stick Lite ? Grab a Voice Remote Pro along with it. And that equation gets even worse if you get something at a discount.
To be fair, that’s probably not the market Amazon is targeting for the Voice Remote Pro. It just doesn’t make sense to augment a $30 (or less!) streaming stick with a $35 remote control. It’s not going to turn a stick that’s limited to 1080p resolution into a 4K monster or anything.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends But what the Voice Remote Pro will do is give you a better remote control, once you pair it to your Fire TV device, that is, but that’s simple enough. The buttons are backlit, making them easier to use in the dark. For those who don’t do everything by feel — the Fire TV remotes tend to have enough buttons, mostly of the same size and shape — that can be a real benefit.
There’s also a new feature to help you find the Voice Remote Pro should you lose it. To do this, you’ll need some other device that includes Alexa , be it an Echo speaker, or the Alexa app on your phone, or the Fire TV Cube , since it has hands-free voice control built in. Just tell Alex to find your remote, and the Voice Remote Pro will fire off an annoying series of tones that’ll enable you to find the offender and put a stop to the ruckus.
There also are a couple of buttons on the remote that you can map to whatever Alexa command you want, which is cool until you realize how your kids have been ordering pizza without your knowledge. But that may be a “me” problem.
And a little more nerdy (but no less a good addition) is the inclusion of a dedicated button to get into the Bluetooth settings of your Fire TV device even more quickly — the better to pair headphones with, my dear.
The remote itself also just feels a little better in the hand. It’s a tad shorter, and the edges no longer meet at a sharp angle, instead giving you a few millimeters of sides to grip. Again, it’s just better.
Before you run out and buy a Voice Remote Pro, though, do take care to ensure that it actually works with your Fire TV device. If it’s a relatively new device, you should be good to go, and Amazon has a full list here.
 But there are a number of smart TVs that it doesn’t support, including the Element Fire TV Edition, Insignia HD or Insignia FHD, or the Hisense U6HF 4K ULED Fire TV Series set. (We’re told at least the latter will get an update in due time to fix that.) The Voice Remote Pro is a good remote, full stop. Indeed it’s a better remote than what Amazon ships with its best devices, which is frustrating. It turns the $140 Fire TV Cube into a $175 purchase — a 25% increase. And that’s the smallest disparity, not counting if you’re going to use it with a supported television that uses Fire TV as its operating system. But not even the new Fire TV Omni QLED — Amazon’s own branded television — includes the Voice Remote Pro. You’ll still have to buy it separately, increasing the cost by about 6%.
And that’s the real problem. Amazon’s best remote is something most folks probably don’t need, and won’t get. At least not until Amazon includes it with its other devices.
Editors' Recommendations The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 Amazon is giving you 6 months of MGM+ when you buy a new Fire TV More than 100 Amazon Originals head to Amazon Freevee Amazon Fire TVs can stream directly to hearing implants Amazon Echo Show 15 is getting the full Fire TV update today Amazon Amazon Alexa Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Audio / Video The latest Amazon Fire TV Cube is good. Really good, even, with the addition of HDMI-in that allows for even better control of things like cable and satellite set-top boxes. Same, too, goes for the addition of USB-A and a full-blown Ethernet port.
But it's that latter feature that many a reader of our Fire TV Cube review (and our Fire TV Omni QLED review, too) has had stuck in their craw.
Audio / Video Amazon held its big September hardware event today and saved the best for last, as TV enthusiasts might say, with an update to its latest TV lineup. The Fire TV Omni QLED Series features improved picture quality and a motion-sensing "ambient" experience that can trigger a whole range of new on-screen features.
Upping the ante from the original Omni series' LED panels, the new Omni QLEDs now include Quantum Dot technology for better brightness and color, plus full-array local dimming for improved contrast, as well as support for Dolby Vision IQ that senses the ambient light in the room and adjusts the screen brightness accordingly. Amazon's new TVs also add HDR10+ Adaptive support, as well as Auto Low Latency mode and Variable Refresh Rate (VRR) for gamers.
Audio / Video As part of its September 2022 devices event, Amazon has announced a new version of its Fire TV Cube streaming device, priced at $140. It's the first streamer we've seen that includes an HDMI input in addition to its HDMI output, letting it display content from devices like cable or satellite set-top boxes or Blu-ray players, while it controls those devices via Alexa or the included remote control. And speaking of remotes, Amazon has upgraded that device as well. The $35 Alexa Voice Remote Pro now includes backlighting and a remote control finder feature -- both of which are absent from the remote that Apple includes with its Apple TV 4K.
Oddly, Amazon decided the new Fire TV Cube will come with the standard Alexa Voice Remote -- not the Pro model -- for its $140 price, but you can add the $35 Voice Remote Pro when you order it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
