Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Amazon Fire TV Gen 2 (2015) review Amazon's new Fire TV gets hotter, still leaves non-Prime subscribers in the cold By Caleb Denison Close $100.00 Fast, powerful hardware Huge selection of top-quality apps 4K Ultra HD capable Advanced voice-assisted search Fun games Won’t work with all 4K Ultra HD TVs Heavily favors Prime subscribers One year ago, the Amazon Fire TV set-top box dethroned my Roku after its reign of more than three years as my family’s media streamer of choice.
I’ll cop to being a heavy Amazon patron, but that’s not why the Fire TV won out.
Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more For now, only select Amazon and Netflix content is available in 4K Ultra HD.
Now, with 4K UHD streaming ability, a faster CPU and graphics processor, and the addition of Amazon’s Alexa voice assistant, the new version of the already formidable Fire TV is even better than before.
Looking for the newest Fire TV tech? Check out our review of the 3rd generation Amazon Fire TV.
Out of the box If you already own a Fire TV and decide to upgrade, you’ll find the new Fire TV looks exactly the same as the previous model. Save the addition of a MicroSD card slot on the back, and the removal of the optical digital audio port, the two are identical. If you’re new to Fire TV, we think you’ll appreciate the low profile and unobtrusive look. These things can disappear into your entertainment center, and nobody will ever know it’s there.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trendsd The standard $100 Fire TV package comes with the set-top box, a voice-recognition remote, and a power supply. If you see yourself playing games on the Fire TV (and this new version provides more incentive for gaming than before) you can spend another $40 for the gaming edition, which is bundled with a console-style game controller, two games, and a 32 GB microSD card.
Setup Installing a Fire TV is a piece of cake. Simply connect an HDMI cable and the power supply. Sadly, Amazon ditched the optical digital audio jack for this generation, which means those who want to connect the Fire TV to an A/V receiver will be forced to use their receiver as an HDMI switcher.
Once powered up, the Fire TV’s setup wizard will guide you through the process. For 4K Ultra HD streaming, we highly recommend connecting a hard Ethernet line, but an 802.11ac router will also do the trick. Sadly, there’s no optical audio output for an independent audio connection, so if you want to run your Fire TV through your home theater system and get the best audio quality, you’ll need to use your receiver as an HDMI switcher.
Once the setup process is over, be prepared to sit through Amazon’s animated tutorial video. You can’t skip it, but we wouldn’t recommend it even if you could: You may learn your new Fire TV has capabilities you weren’t aware of.
Welcome to Amazon’s Universe The Fire TV platform is built to favor Amazon in every way possible. While Roku’s homescreen is built around showing off multiple apps as “channels,” the Amazon Fire TV is built around what you can get out of Amazon.
Amazon’s search feature doesn’t poll every video streaming app installed on it the way Roku and TiVo boxes do.
To access anything else, you’ll need to scroll down quite a bit to the apps section. Here you can see which apps you’ve already installed and search for new apps by category. Fortunately, Amazon puts any recently used apps right up top in the home section so you don’t have to do a bunch of button-clicking to get at, say, Netflix.
What’s new in the new Fire TV There are three big new additions for this second-generation Fire TV: 4K Ultra HD streaming ability, Alexa voice assistant, and juiced-up hardware.
4K Ultra HD Amazon, like nearly every other maker of streaming set-top boxes (except Apple), knows that streaming is where most people get their 4K Ultra HD content. TiVo’s new box does it, the new Roku box will, and most 4K Ultra HD TVs do. But as one of the few 4K Ultra HD streaming content providers out there, support for this new resolution was an absolute must for Amazon.
Previous Next 1 5 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder For now, only select Amazon and Netflix content is available in 4K Ultra HD , but as other services begin to offer it, the Fire TV will be ready to serve it up.
It should be noted that only streaming content is displayed in 2160p resolution. The Fire TV’s user interface is still 1080p.
Alexa on the Fire TV The original Fire TV already had voice-recognition software that would allow quick search for content, mostly from Amazon. But the addition of Amazon’s voice assistant, Alexa , gives the Fire TV a lot more ability. Now natural language can be used and Alexa will help figure out what you’re looking for.
If you’ve not used a Fire TV before, you’ll find that it is built to favor Amazon in every way possible.
It should be noted that original Fire TV owners can expect a software update that will enable Alexa on their boxes. The date for this update has not been disclosed, but we expect it in the coming weeks.
Juiced-up hardware Amazon says the Fire TV’s new MediaTek Quad-core (up to 2 Ghz) processor is 75 percent faster than before, and that its new Power VR GX6250 graphics processor (GPU) is twice as powerful – RAM and hard storage remain the same at 2 GB and 8 GB respectively. For us, the Fire TV’s faster CPU doesn’t seem to have any real-world benefits just yet — it has always been a snappy device to operate. If there’s one notable benefit right now, it’s that voice-activated queries process and return extremely quickly. Going forward, though, we think the device may be able to speed up gameplay.
Speaking of games, there don’t seem to be any new titles that can take advantage of the Fire TV’s faster GPU just yet, but now that game developers have a more capable platform to work with, we imagine we’ll see some higher-quality games coming down the pike.
Life is good when you live in the Amazon The new Fire TV performs just as we expected it would. It’s a rock-solid device with a speedy interface, a wide selection of apps and games, and it streams 4K UHD very well. In short, it’s every bit the star the previous version was, with some fun new bits tossed in.
We should also add here that Amazon’s parental controls are extremely good. Not only can restrictions be placed on the type of content watched on the TV, but it can prevent unauthorized app purchases as well. In addition, Amazon provides “Free Time,” a 100-percent kid-friendly selection of apps, games, movies, and TV shows.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trendsd Plus, if you have other Amazon devices, such as a Fire HD Tablet or Fire Phone , the Fire TV is going to work hand in hand with them. For instance, your tablet can function as a second screen, a remote control, or both. Content can also be started on one device and transferred to the other.
Overall, we’re extremely pleased, but we do have a few complaints.
Gripes Amazon’s search feature doesn’t poll every video streaming app installed on it the way Roku and TiVo boxes do. This may not be entirely Amazon’s fault, but it is still a point of disappointment.
Update note by Caleb Denison October 5, 2015: At the time of our evaluation, the Netflix app was not updated to full functionality. Since then, the full-fledged Netflix app has been released, and voice search continues to lack Netflix (among other services’) results. For instance, a search for ‘Orange is the New Black’ returns Amazon Prime Instant results only, even though the show is free on Netflix.
The Fire TV’s screensaver is turned on by default. This isn’t as big a deal as it used to be when the Fire TV streamed the images. Now, the images are downloaded and cached on the device, only to be downloaded again if the cache needs to be used for something else. This goes for personal images used for the screensaver as well — they’ll be downloaded from the cloud as needed. Bandwidth intensive? Not so much. But there’s more.
Adding to the “bandwidth hog” notion is the fact that Amazon starts pulling down video content based on what it thinks you are going to watch – a feature it calls ASAP. The benefit is that Amazon content starts playing extremely quickly. The downside is that it heavily taxes your Internet connection, so if you have a data cap, that could potentially become a problem.
Conclusion If you’re at all invested in the Amazon Prime universe, the Fire TV is a no-brainer. And if you already own a Fire TV and are considering the upgrade, we only recommend pulling the trigger if you have a 4K UHD TV or intend to purchase one soon. Otherwise, you can afford to hold off on the upgrade.
The DT Accessory Pack Up your game and the get the most out of your gear with the following extras, hand-picked by our editors: AmazonBasics High-Speed HDMI Cable ($5.50) Actiontec Ethernet over Coax Adapter Kit ($125.50) VIZIO M55-C2 55-Inch 4K Ultra HD Smart LED HDTV ($850) If you’re not a big Amazon Prime person, the Fire TV is still an outstanding streamer, just be prepared to use a device built with another customer in mind. There are still advantages. For instance, we currently prefer the Fire TV version of apps like Netflix and Plex over Roku’s.
Then again, a new Roku is expected soon, and it will no doubt pose some serious competition for the Fire TV. If you’re at all on the fence about which platform to go for, consider waiting until we’ve had a chance to pit the two against each other.
Now that the Fire TV has a fat selection of apps and games, 4K UHD streaming ability, and hardware powerful enough to stay relevant for the foreseeable future, it is a serious contender in the streaming set-top box market.
Highs Fast, powerful hardware Huge selection of top-quality apps 4K Ultra HD capable Advanced voice-assisted search Fun games Lows Won’t work with all 4K Ultra HD TVs Heavily favors Prime subscribers Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Entertainment Amazon Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Streaming Services Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Audio / Video If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That's why we've listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don't have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there's something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we've picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV -- $298, was $348 The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that's ideal if you're on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There's also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
Audio / Video Checking out all the TV deals but know your heart is set on a 75-inch model? We've narrowed things down here to all the best 75-inch TV deals going on at the moment. Encompassing everything from regular 4K TVs to the latest in 8K and Mini-LED technology, there's something for every budget and need here. Keep reading while we take you through the best options currently available.
Onn. 75-inch 4K TV -- $498 The Onn. 75-inch 4K TV isn't technically on sale but it's an amazing price for a 75-inch 4K TV. Its huge 75-inch screen is teamed up with useful features like three HDMI ports. It also has Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily find movies and TV episodes across thousands of free or paid channels. There's also the Roku mobile app which means that you can use voice commands to find what you want to watch rather than needing to use the remote. It's straightforward enough and ideal for those on a budget.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
