Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max review: second-generation success By Phil Nickinson Close $59.99 Same great Fire TV experience Double the storage Improved processor Faster Wi-Fi Price is right Doesn't include the best Alexa remote Waiting on some new AI features Laggy interactions This Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max review is one of those in which we’re just going to go ahead and cut to the chase. Just as the first-generation stick was the one to get if you were considering a Fire TV device, so, too, is the second-generation model.
Video review Fire TV Stick 4K Max hardware Fire TV Stick 4K Max software The Ambient Experience AI still to come The bottom line It’s got the same excellent Fire TV experience, which Amazon continues to improve and refine. It’s had a little refresh to the internals, making it faster and adding storage, which is always a good thing. The price has gone up a smidge, but still falls well under the $100 threshold, and that’s before the inevitable sales that absolutely will happen.
The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Amazon debuts its first Fire TV soundbar and faster Fire TV sticks And there are new experiences both visually and behind the scenes that leverage Amazon’s investments in AI that should make using a Fire TV Stick 4K Max (much of the Fire TV lineup, actually) that much better. But we have to wait a bit for the AI improvement as they’re not yet available. Though Amazon has given us a teaser of what’s coming.
In other words, if you’re going to buy a Fire TV Stick of some sort, you probably want the mouthful that is the Fire TV Stick 4K Max.
And now, after having spent a few days with a review unit sent by Amazon, we’ll show our work.
Video review Fire TV Stick 4K Max hardware There remain four options (what those of us in the biz call “SKUs”) in the Fire TV Stick lineup. The Lite lands at $30. The plain ol’ Stick is $40. The Fire TV Stick 4K is $50. And the new Fire TV Stick 4K Max is a penny shy of $60. The top end device is now $5 more than the previous generation when it launched in October 2021, but that’s the sort of delta (and overall price) that you really shouldn’t think twice about.
In all, you’re looking at a 100% difference in price between the low end and the high end, with a comparable difference in specs. The bottom two sticks top out at 1080p. The top two have their slight differences and are new for this late 2023 release cycle, but are separated by just $10.
The Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K and Fire TV Stick 4K Max look nearly identical. The remote controls are slightly different.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends You won’t notice any visual differences between the new Fire TV 4K Stick and its Max big brother. The corners are now rounded, for what that’s worth, and both are adorned with the Fire TV logo above the Amazon Smile mark (not that you’ll really care what they look like once they’re tucked behind a TV). Both support 4K video and Dolby Vision for HDR , along with the other flavors of HDR.
 Both support Dolby Atmos for audio (though that’s arguably less important). The Max is still powered by micro-USB, which would be unforgivable in 2023 were this not a $60 device that isn’t meant to be unplugged all that often. Still, if you’re going to travel with it, it means one more cable and power brick that probably doesn’t work with much else that you own.
Fire TV Stick 4K Max hardware has improved, but doesn’t eliminate all lag.
The bigger differences are on the inside. The Max has a faster processor (a Mediatek MT8696T at up to 2.0 GHz; the non-Max MT8696T CPU tops out at 1.7 GHz). The Max also has a faster GPU. Does any of that matter? Of course, it does. Is it something you’d actually notice while using the Fire TV? No.
One exception to that is with onboard storage. The Max has 16GB, and the non-Max has half that. Nobody ever wished they had less storage when things start to fill up. More is better. Not that you actually get all 16GB. We’re showing 12.86GB actually available, with about 11GB of that still free after first boot.
Another exception is the Wi-Fi. The Max supports Wi-Fi 6E.
 It’s not the latest standard (that Amazon is pushing in its newly released — and not inexpensive — Eero Max 7 router); it’s one back. Meanwhile the non-Max version is merely Wi-Fi 6.
Given the totality of all that — more storage, faster internals and better wireless — just go ahead and spend the extra $10. It’s a pretty easy decision.
The Alexa Voice Remote Enhanced is included with the 2023 Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends One other difference between the Max and non-Max: The remote control. This isn’t a huge deal, but it’s a noticeable one. The Fire TV Stick 4K Max comes with the Alexa Voice Remote Enhanced, which really just means it has a recent apps button (the two overlapping squares) and channel up/down buttons if you’re the sort who prefers flipping. (That might not work with all live-streaming apps, but it does work just fine with YouTube TV , which is the most popular. It doesn’t work with the live channels in Amazon’s own Freevee app, however.) Amazon says the two AAA batteries are included; our review unit didn’t have them in the box.
Regardless, there’s still the big, blue Alexa button toward the top of the remote. That’s the really important part, and they all have it now.
The remote in and of itself isn’t necessarily a deal breaker. And it also isn’t even the best Alexa Remote you can buy. That title still belongs to the Alexa Voice Remote Pro , which adds backlighting, two programmable buttons, and a “remote finder” feature. It’s understandable that it’s not included with an affordable Fire TV Stick 4K Max, but those backlit buttons sure would be nice to have. (For what it’s worth, it’s also not even included with the $140 Fire TV Cube.
 You have to buy it separately.) Fire TV Stick 4K Max software Another year or two, another round of things getting steadily better. All Fire TV hardware continues to use Android as its underlying code. We’re up to Fire OS 8.1, and it’s powered by the non-Google code in Android 11 (or API Level 30).
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends If you’ve used a Fire TV device of any sort the past few years, you already know what you’re getting in the new Fire TV Stick 4K Max. It’s the same experience. A lot of icons on the home screen — maybe still too many, but Amazon has done well to streamline things so that you’re really presented with a more digestible view. Amazon (and Amazon-owned) content gets a bit of a boost, and we still recommend taking a few minutes to actually pin apps you use a lot to the home screen so that you don’t have to keep clicking over to the “Your Apps & Channels” section (though the recent apps button on the remote can help speed that up a little).
The Fire TV experience is largely unchanged.
A lot of the Amazon Fire TV software experience is going to be what you make of it. How much you have in your watch lists. Or how much customizing you do to your apps on the home screen. Or, really, just how much you use your Fire TV device so that it starts surfacing content it thinks you want to watch (more on that in a second).
Fire TV’s user interface and Amazon’s entire user experience has gotten really good, and it continues to improve. If anything’s holding it back, it’s the hardware. There still are too many occasions where there’s too much lag. Optimizing software for hardware is its own level of alchemy, and it’s amazing that Fire TV is able to do what it does on the platform on which it’s working. But while the lag isn’t likely to bother normal folks as much as it does those of us who scrutinize these things for a living, it’s definitely apparent. And it definitely detracts from the overall experience — particularly when it comes to this next part.
The Ambient Experience Of all the differences between the Fire TV Stick 4K and the Fire TV Stick 4K Max, this probably is the one that alone would justify spending the extra $10. So far, the Max the only one in the lineup to have the Fire TV Ambient Experience, which previously was exclusive to the Fire TV Omni series of televisions.
The small widgets on the Amazon Fire TV Ambient Experience.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends The Ambient Experience is really good. As the name implies, it’s a sort of glanceable background. It’s more akin to what Google TV (and Android TV ) have had, in that it’s more than just a screen saver. However, the new artistic backgrounds are really nice — and there are many — and there also are a handful of backgrounds that include motion. They’re definitely not as good as Apple’s, which has set a ridiculously high bar for that sort of thing. The motion isn’t as pronounced — think waves or clouds in the background — and the motion itself just isn’t as smooth, even from a distance. But the current motion backgrounds aren’t anything to sneeze at and are the sort of thing I wouldn’t mind leaving on in the background for others to see.
Background options for the Ambient Experience on Amazon Fire TV.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends If you use Amazon Photos, you also can use your own photos as backgrounds, if you want.
What really makes the Ambient Experience different is its widgets, which have varying degrees of customization. So far, there are 10 widgets available from Amazon, including: Alexa Weather Calendar and Reminders Cookpad Recipe of the Day Live TV Music and Audio Smart Home Favorites Sticky Notes What Should I Watch What to Eat Your Deliveries Again, the usefulness of each depends on your dependence on Amazon itself. Don’t use Amazon Music or Amazon Photos? That widget won’t be much help. That sort of thing. But they’re nicely designed.
The widgets also come in two sizes — small, which is the default — and large. I’d just leave them in the small size so that you can take in the beautiful backgrounds in the Ambient Experience. You can then expand the widget to its larger size using the remote.
Large widgets on the Amazon Fire TV Ambient Experience.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends It’s worth spending a few minutes in the settings of the Ambient Experience when you first get going — especially if you have an OLED television. The possibility of OLED burn-in is real, even if it’s not as much of a worry as it once was. But Amazon has smartly built in some options here for the widgets. You can set them to show all the time, or to show themselves when the Ambient Experience first launches, and then tuck themselves away until you want to see them again by pressing the up button on the remote. Or you can choose to never see the widgets at all.
But kudos to Amazon in any event for warning about OLED burn-in if you opt to have the widgets display all the time. Let’s hope the clock and temperature bugs don’t have the same concern. (We haven’t had them open long enough for that to be a concern, and you can always hide them if you want.) A warning about OLED burn-in can be found in the Amazon Fire TV Ambient Experience settings.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends The Ambient Experience is really well done considering how early we are into its life span. It’s also another instance in which the software lag rears its ugly head. Sometimes it’s when flipping between widgets. Other times it’s when you’re navigating within a widget, or opening up a full screen beyond that.
Lag is, and will continue to be, the enemy. And it’s souring an otherwise excellent experience.
AI still to come Of course, you can’t get through a new product launch in 2023 without AI being included somehow. And that’s true for the new Fire TV fare as well.
Unfortunately, this isn’t something we can test just yet because it’s not going to be live until sometime later this year. But Amazon showed it off at its Devices and Services event at HQ2 in Arlington, Va., in late September. And since it directly affects the Fire TV 4K Max (and the non-Max), it’s worth a mention.
New AI search results in Amazon Fire TV will mostly look the same, but the results themselves should be better.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends First of note is that search results on Fire TV are going to be supercharged. “We’ve completely reinvented the Fire TV search experience,” Daniel Rausch, vice president for Alexa and Amazon Fire TV, said at the event. “Leveraging our latest [large-language model], we built a more natural and conversational way to work with Alexa to find content on Fire TV. It’s like speaking to a great friend who’s also the world’s best video store clerk.” Never mind that only those of us of a certain age even know what a video store is, the point is taken. And the demo definitely showed better, more nuanced search results within Fire TV.
But we have to wait for them.
Amazon’s Daniel Rausch shows an AI-edited image of his family in Amazon Fire TV at the 2023 Devices & Services event on September 20, 2023, at HQ2 in Arlington, Virginia.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Rausch also showed a cool feature by which AI is used to create original backgrounds for Fire TV, or to make cool new versions of already existing photos. That latter part might well take your home pictures of family or whatever and turn them into something that’s more suitable for an ambient experience background.
Again, we have to wait for them on Fire TV later this year. But they’re coming.
The bottom line We said this in 2021, led off with this again here, and it remains true a couple thousand words and two more years later: The Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max remains the Fire TV stick that should command your money.
It has hardware that keeps the cost below the $100 mark, but still gets the job done, and ticks pretty much all the specs boxes you could want. It has software that gets better iteration after iteration. The new Ambient Experience is nice. The upcoming AI features should make the experience that much better.
There’s not much to complain about here. I’ll mention the lag again, because it’s probably the biggest opportunity for improvement, even if it’s the one that’s hitting a development ceiling the quickest. (And it’s also not a unique problem — Google hits the same wall with the low-cost Chromecast with Google TV.
) Ultimately, this purchase decision should come down to a couple things: Are you in the Amazon ecosystem? And do you need a new Fire TV Stick of some sort? If the answer to those questions are “yes,” then you’ll do just fine with a Fire TV Stick 4K Max.
Editors' Recommendations Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 Vizio’s new Quantum 4K QLED TVs hit 75 inches for $699 Amazon is giving you 6 months of MGM+ when you buy a new Fire TV YouTube TV in 4K: Everything you need to know Amazon Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Streaming Services Audio / Video TCL has unveiled yet another 98-inch 4K TV: the S Class S5 (98S550G), which can be preordered starting August 24 for $5,000. As part of TCL's partnership with the NFL, the company is also offering football fans $200 off NFL Sunday Ticket from YouTube and YouTube TV if you buy the TV before September 19, 2023.
The Google TV-powered 98-inch S5 joins TCL's $5,000 98-inch Class XL 4K QLED TV (98R754) and the company's $12,000 98-inch Q Class mini-LED 4K TV (98QM850G) as the three biggest TCL TVs.
Audio / Video There was a time when 4K resolution alone would guarantee you’d be spending upwards of $1,500 on a TV, regardless of the size. But we’re more than a decade away from the singular fanfare of a high pixel count, which means 4K TVs cost much less moolah. In fact, did you know that you can actually find several UHD sets that sell for less than $500 and they won’t fall apart the moment you look at them? Hyperbole aside, our proclamation is true, and we’ve rounded up the very best 4K TVs for under $500 that you can buy online and in stores right now.
Audio / Video If it's time to upgrade your home theater system, Walmart TV deals are a great place to start looking. While TVs have gotten dramatically cheaper over the years, you're still going to be dropping at least a triple-digit number on a new one. Thankfully Walmart TV deals cut quite a bit off the price tag. Below we've collected LED, QLED, OLED, HD and 4K TVs from Walmart. These comes from all sorts of brands, so check out the full list. If you want to brows for yourself, here's a link to all of the TVs for sale at Walmart.
Hisense 58-inch Roku 4K TV -- $268, was $338 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
