Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Amazon Fire TV review If Alexa runs your house, Amazon's new Fire TV should run your screen By Caleb Denison Close $69.99 Compact and portable Powerful Affordable Works with Alexa Supports HDR Dongle may strain HDMI ports No Ethernet jack No Dolby Vision Frankly, we were a little surprised when Amazon announced its third-generation Fire TV. We were expecting perhaps a more powerful streaming stick, or maybe another svelte set-top box, but what we got instead was something in the middle: A sort of a turbocharged dongle like Google’s Chromecast Ultra , but with the on-screen user interface and handheld remote control we’ve become used to. Going into this Amazon Fire TV review, we wondered why the company went in this direction.
Amazon’s move might make sense, though. As streaming sticks have become increasingly powerful, the need for a set-top box has been relegated to power users who need a very specific set of connections and horsepower. Perhaps that audience has dwindled to the point that Amazon didn’t see the value in continuing to produce something very few people would buy. Is the Amazon Fire TV third-generation powerful enough to lay set-top boxes to rest ? Let’s find out.
Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more Out of the Box Amazon’s product-packaging mojo is on point these days. The new Fire TV comes neatly arranged with its various components smartly tucked in recycled cardboard compartments. In a product category where simplicity is a cornerstone of design, Amazon’s approach excels.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends In the box, you’ll find the new Amazon Fire TV dongle, a lengthy USB power cable, a wall adapter, an Alexa-enabled voice remote, a set of AAA batteries for said remote, and a basic setup guide. Priced at a reasonable $70, the kit can also be bundled with an Amazon Basics HD antenna for $75.
Setup The new Amazon Fire TV improves on an already simple setup process by eliminating the need to find a place to stash a set-top box or run an HDMI cable. To install the new Amazon Fire TV, simply find a free HDMI port on the back of your TV (or soundbar, A/V receiver, etc.) and plug it right in.
In a product category where simplicity is a cornerstone of design, Amazon’s approach excels.
From there, you can either run the included USB power cable into an available USB slot on your TV, or plug into a wall outlet or power strip using the supplied wall adapter. We suggest putting the wall adapter in play, as using a TV’s USB port means the new Fire TV will power down with the TV, requiring extra time for it to boot up. Using a wall adapter means it will always be on and at the ready.
We are a little concerned about the weight of the new Amazon Fire TV, as it could put unwanted strain on both its HDMI connector and the HDMI jack in the TV. To reduce strain, we suggest affixing the dongle to the TV using removable adhesive strips or Velcro.
Once the device is plugged in and powered on, Amazon will run you through a brief setup wizard. You may need to connect the remote to the Fire TV by pressing and holding the home button for about 10 seconds. Once connected, you’ll enter your Wi-Fi router password, select from a handful of popular apps to be downloaded immediately, and sit through a tutorial video which can be skipped if you’re already familiar with how Fire TV works.
If you want to control your Fire TV device with an Alexa-enabled speaker like the new Amazon Echo or Sonos One , you’ll first need to link the devices together using the Amazon Alexa app , You’ll also need 2GB of RAM with 8GB of internal storage. These specs are better than an Amazon Fire TV stick , but not as powerful as the second-gen Fire TV box.
Gone for this iteration is an Ethernet port. We’re a little concerned about this omission considering Wi-Fi strength for the device is going to vary from user to user, and is potentially further hindered by a TV’s electronic interference. Considering 4K Ultra HD content depends on a solid internet connection and plenty of bandwidth, the lack of Ethernet connection could be a liability for some.
Just like the prior Fire TV box, this new dongle-style Fire TV lacks any kind of audio output jack. The good news for Dolby Atmos-enabled A/V receiver owners is that the dongle dishes up Dolby Atmos audio when available. The bad news for most TV owners is that Dolby Atmos is rarely passed out via HDMI ARC (new LG TVs are a notable exception), so if you want that sweet Dolby Atmos surround audio, consider connecting directly to your A/V receiver for best results.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends The included remote control has a mic and mic button for using voice control and search with Amazon Alexa. This makes finding content much easier, and allows users to do all kinds of clever things with their Fire TV remote, such as dim smart lighting, close shades, and order pizza using the Domino’s Pizza Alexa skill.
Alexa can also launch Spotify playlists, Pandora channels, and other content. What Alexa can’t do is play a specific movie or TV show through apps like Netflix or Hulu … yet. We hope that feature comes along soon.
Performance The new Amazon Fire TV offers exceptionally quick navigation and app loading speeds. Having used the second-gen Fire TV for two years now, we never felt as if we took a step backward in terms of horsepower. We also found the experience of playing games through the new Fire TV to be on par with prior devices.
The new Amazon Fire TV offers exceptionally quick navigation and app loading speeds.
The only area in which performance suffered was with content loading times. An Ethernet connection ensures you are watching in 4K Ultra HD resolution almost immediately (when sufficient bandwidth is provided), but with our new Fire TV within five feet of our wireless router, we often waited upward of 40 seconds for the content to spool up to full resolution. This was hardly a deal-breaker for us, but in homes where Wi-Fi is less stable, it could be a real problem. It is also worth pointing out that at least two officially supported web browsers — Mozilla Firefox and Amazon Silk — are available in the app store. Amazon claims they deliver the full web browsing experience akin to desktop or mobile browsing, but we have yet to test their performance, especially without Ethernet. We’ll be sure to update with our verdict.
We’re also perplexed as to why Amazon didn’t include Dolby Vision HDR support in the new Fire TV. Sure, it supports HDR10 , but considering Amazon Prime Video touts Dolby Vision support so often, why would the company build a streaming device that doesn’t support it? The Apple TV 4K does, though Roku’s devices do not (save Roku OS built into smart TVs like the TCL P-series ). The answer could come down to cost, as Amazon would have to pay licensing fees to Dolby, which could spike the cost of the new Fire TV.
Digital Trends reached out to Amazon for comment, and an Amazon spokesperson issued this reply: “Amazon Video has an impressive set of titles that support HDR10, which is the most widely adopted standard by TV manufacturers today. We are committed to making a product that customers will love and we think the all-new Fire TV achieves that.” Warranty information Amazon offers a one-year warranty , with options to purchase an extended two-year and three-year warranty for $9 and $10, respectively.
Our Take Amazon’s new $70 Fire TV dongle is powerful, easy to install, and adds support for HDR content. With Alexa at the helm, Amazon’s Fire TV is a more compelling streaming option than ever before.
Is there a better alternative? We prefer the new Roku Streaming Stick+ , which has an enhanced antenna, as well as a remote control that can command a TV’s power and volume functions. Roku is also completely platform agnostic, which means voice search will return better results, including which of your preferred streaming services offer what you want to watch for free. Admittedly, those benefits come at the cost of Alexa. For those who are heavily invested in Amazon’s ecosystem (Echo-system?), the new Fire TV is the only way to go.
How long will it last? If Amazon decides to add Dolby Vision support down the road, or comes out with a more powerful Fire TV soon (Fire TV Ultra, anyone?), then it’s possible that the new Fire TV could be supplanted in as little as a year. With that said, this new Fire TV device is extremely powerful and appears well-built, leading us to believe it should last for a good two to three years before a replacement might be necessary.
Should you buy it? If you are building a smart home around Amazon’s Alexa, then yes, the Fire TV is most certainly the right streaming device for you. It’s powerful, easy to use, and portable, meaning you can shove it in an overnight bag and use it wherever you roam.
For those who don’t want to be so heavily locked into Amazon’s ecosystem, however, we suggest a device like the Roku Streaming Stick+ instead.
Update: This review has been updated with information about Fire TV’s new web browser support.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Amazon Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Audio / Video If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That's why we've listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don't have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there's something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we've picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV -- $298, was $348 The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that's ideal if you're on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There's also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
Audio / Video Checking out all the TV deals but know your heart is set on a 75-inch model? We've narrowed things down here to all the best 75-inch TV deals going on at the moment. Encompassing everything from regular 4K TVs to the latest in 8K and Mini-LED technology, there's something for every budget and need here. Keep reading while we take you through the best options currently available.
Onn. 75-inch 4K TV -- $498 The Onn. 75-inch 4K TV isn't technically on sale but it's an amazing price for a 75-inch 4K TV. Its huge 75-inch screen is teamed up with useful features like three HDMI ports. It also has Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily find movies and TV episodes across thousands of free or paid channels. There's also the Roku mobile app which means that you can use voice commands to find what you want to watch rather than needing to use the remote. It's straightforward enough and ideal for those on a budget.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
