Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K review With Amazon's Fire TV Stick 4K, Alexa is in charge but not a control freak By Ryan Waniata Close $49.99 Speedy operation HDR10+ and Dolby Vision support Top-notch voice control Basic TV controls on remote Alexa keeps getting better Somewhat awkward design Voice search still needs work While set-top boxes aren’t going away anytime soon, streaming sticks (aka dongles) increasingly offer some of the best value and performance in streaming land. Case in point: Roku’s fabulous Streaming Stick Plus ($60) is easily one of our favorite streamers available , packing 4K HDR, a speedy processor, and a handy, point-anywhere remote, all running on Roku’s intuitive operating system.
Out of the box Setup Interface and remote Alexa on command Performance Our Take Not to be outdone, Amazon released its own loaded streaming stick, the Fire TV Stick 4K. While the name may not be inspired, the Fire TV Stick 4K promises everything the Streaming Stick Plus does while adding Alexa voice integration and even Dolby Vision and HDR10+ , all for just $50. While we encountered a few hiccups along the way, Amazon’s latest streaming stick offers impressive value — especially if Alexa is your jam.
Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more ( Editor’s note: This review has been updated to add information about new support for YouTube following Amazon and Google’s truce, as well as a score upgrade for kinks worked out and impressive overall value.) Out of the box Right off the bat, you’ll notice the Fire TV Stick 4K is chunky – big enough that it blocked other HDMI ports when we plugged it into a TCL 6-series , a Sony X900F , and a Samsung Q7F. What’s more, a side-mounted micro-USB power port makes for yet another blocking obstacle.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends You won’t have to worry about the fit if you use an HDMI extender, one of which is thankfully included in the package and even provides improved Wi-Fi reception, according to Amazon. Still, it makes us wonder why Amazon even designs its cheapest streamer as a stick at all if it’s destined to become a de facto dongle, hanging even more awkwardly than 2017’s Fire TV.
Along with the extender, accessories include a USB power cable and wall adapter for versatile power connection, a new and improved Alexa voice remote complete with a volume rocker and power key for basic TV control, and batteries for the remote.
Setup Setting up the Fire TV Stick 4K is a relatively simple affair, though we did run into a few hiccups on the software side. After plugging the stick in (with extender, of course), the system walks you speedily through system setup, including quickly connecting the remote to both the Fire TV device and our TV.
Support for every HDR format should future proof it quite nicely.
The system immediately required a software update (not unexpected for a brand-new device sent to us for review ahead of formal launch) which took about five minutes, and — after quickly connecting our Amazon account — we had some issues getting apps to download or open. The Netflix app simply wouldn’t open at all. We chalked the issue up to our occasionally squirrelly office router, but it wasn’t the only place we ran into some network trouble (more on that below). After backing out of the Netflix app and re-engaging, we got it working and all other apps followed suit.
One major setting change you may need to make right away is the Fire TV Stick’s high-dynamic range (HDR) setting. We love the fact that the device offers support for every current HDR format , including HDR10, HDR10+, HLG and Dolby Vision for enhanced contrast and color performance with supported content. However, an odd default setting created major picture problems within some HD content for us, specifically with Netflix videos. Colors were sapped and playback dim, as the system tried to initiate HDR contrast and color parameters over SDR video.
If this is the case for your device, you can easily fix it by digging into the video settings. Go into Settings>Display & Sounds>Display, then scroll down to Dynamic Range Settings and switch from Always HDR to Adaptive. This should allow all HDR content and SDR content to display correctly.
Interface and remote We’ve made no bones about the fact that we prefer Roku’s agnostic interface approach to those of Amazon and Apple, which tend to push their own content first. In the Fire TV Stick 4K’s case, the home screen will likely bombard you with ads for Amazon originals like The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel (which, to be fair, is pretty “marvelous”) each time you hit the home screen.
Quickly controlling video via voice control is extremely handy.
Otherwise, it’s simple and speedy to load up just about all the streaming apps you want — now including native YouTube thanks to Amazon and Google finally ending their feud.
Like Roku’s mobile app, the available Fire TV Remote app for iOS and Android serves up helpful features, including digital remote keys and a digital keyboard so you don’t have to hunt and peck when signing into apps.
The navigation bar at the top makes it simple to choose your favorites or drop into the settings to manage apps, control audio and video parameters, and other preferences, with handy icons to help you find your query.
The new remote sports all the command keys you’d expect for basic navigation, including the Fire TV’s signature navigation dial and home keys. As mentioned above, you’ll also find a power key for your TV and a volume rocker for audio control over TVs as well as some audio systems like soundbars and A/V receivers. There’s even a little LED on the top next to the microphone key when engaging voice commands.
Alexa on command Speaking of voice commands, alongside The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel , Amazon (of course) serves up the fantastic Miss Alexa, who packs new plenty of controls for the Fire TV Stick, such as the ability to switch HDMI inputs on some TVs, and even control playback within multiple apps, including Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Showtime, and others — something Roku can’t do without the aid of a Google Assistant device. The stick is not on par with the Fire TV Cube in this department, which can control your entire home theater, but it’s pretty impressive.
If you’re invested in the Alexa ecosystem, things get even more convenient You can use Alexa for play/pause, but more useful commands include functions like “fast forward 3 minutes” or “rewind 30 seconds,” so you can easily control video within your favorite apps. If you’re invested in the Alexa ecosystem, things get even more convenient, as you can perform these functions hands-free with other Alexa devices like the Echo and Echo Dot.
Voice search is quite speedy and, unlike earlier Amazon devices, it often serves up content from your signed-in subscriptions before offering it for sale. One thing voice search doesn’t do so well is performing broader content searches, like Comedy Movies, for instance, but even the mighty Roku can have some trouble in that department.
That said, the ability to quickly navigate within a show or movie is extremely helpful, not to mention having access to Alexa’s other smart-home talents.
Performance While our model suffered from some first-week jitters, it evened out over time and now works just as we’d expect a popular streamer from a major company like Amazon. That is, pretty dang well.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends Other Media Streamers Roku Streaming Stick+ Roku Premiere+ Amazon Fire TV Cube Initial hiccups aside, we absolutely love the sheer level of control the device offers, pairing the point-anywhere remote with TV controls, Alexa, and Amazon-enabled speakers, along with more in-app control functions than any stick we’ve reviewed yet; it’s the easiest way we know of to command your system at its price point.
Amazon claims the stick’s new 1.7GHz processor is 80% faster than its predecessor, and it does offer impressively speedy navigation, though load times will, of course, vary by network speed and connection.
Once we got everything working properly, we were equally impressed with the picture and sound quality. The device’s support for Dolby Vision, HDR10 and HDR10+ should future proof it quite nicely, and on the audio side, Dolby Atmos support essentially adds up to the best available sound and picture you can get in a stick. Not bad for $50.
Our Take Amazon’s new Fire TV Stick is loaded to the gills with features, and while we had a few initial hiccups in operation, it offers some of the best value for your money — especially if you’re partial to Amazon’s handy Alexa ecosystem.
Is there a better alternative? We still prefer the Roku $60 Streaming Stick Plus as well as the comparably priced Premiere Plus , which both offer a more intuitive interface and smoother operation.
That said, if you’re dead set on Dolby Vision (meaning you’ve got a Dolby Vision-capable TV ), and/or Alexa voice control, the Fire TV Stick 4K is a better fit.
How long will it last? With regular updates, excellent HDR compatibility, and Dolby Atmos support, the Fire TV Stick 4K is poised to last long into the future.
Should you buy it? Yes, especially if you’re down with Alexa. Amazon’s Fire TV Stick 4K is loaded with features, standing as one of the best streaming devices you can get for your money.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Amazon Amazon Alexa Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Audio / Video If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That's why we've listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don't have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there's something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we've picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV -- $298, was $348 The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that's ideal if you're on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There's also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
Audio / Video Checking out all the TV deals but know your heart is set on a 75-inch model? We've narrowed things down here to all the best 75-inch TV deals going on at the moment. Encompassing everything from regular 4K TVs to the latest in 8K and Mini-LED technology, there's something for every budget and need here. Keep reading while we take you through the best options currently available.
Onn. 75-inch 4K TV -- $498 The Onn. 75-inch 4K TV isn't technically on sale but it's an amazing price for a 75-inch 4K TV. Its huge 75-inch screen is teamed up with useful features like three HDMI ports. It also has Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily find movies and TV episodes across thousands of free or paid channels. There's also the Roku mobile app which means that you can use voice commands to find what you want to watch rather than needing to use the remote. It's straightforward enough and ideal for those on a budget.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
