Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Reviews Apple TV (2015) review Apple TV's latest iteration is a bit late and still missing 4K support, but is a good choice for fans of all things Apple By Caleb Denison Close $149.00 Easy and fun to use Fantastic remote control Zippy operation tvOS versions of apps are great AirPlay mirroring Does not support 4K No optical digital audio port Lacks some key apps No expandable storage If you prefer iPhoto to Google photos, Apple Music to Spotify, and AirPlay to Bluetooth, then the Apple TV is aimed squarely at you. You are heavily invested in the Apple universe, and the Apple TV has been designed to carry the Apple experience right over to your big screen. And in that case, if you’re looking for a streaming set-top box with a gorgeous user interface, a fun remote, and all the Apple integration you could ask for, by all means, buy an Apple TV.
If you are more like this reviewer, however, who owns an iPad and and iPhone but prefers the services of Spotify and Google, then you should seriously consider looking elsewhere. The Apple TV is a fine device indeed, but despite the fact that Apple waited over three years to cough up this latest version, it remains, in a few key ways, behind the times.
Out of the box Apple has the out-of-box experience on lock. Those Cupertino cats really know how to make you feel great about the product you just purchased, and the Apple TV’s packaging may be its greatest achievement in this regard yet.
Once you lift the box’s lid, a glossy Apple TV box and gleaming remote greet you, both covered in protective plastic. Apple likes to use premium materials, and so those materials tend to have just the right amount of heft. The new Apple TV and Apple TV remote are even heavier than we anticipated, though – in a good way.
You may be pleased to see that, although the new Apple TV is quite a bit chunkier than its predecessor, there’s no wall-wart power block to cram into your already over-stuffed power strip. Instead, the Apple TV comes with a simple black AC power cable covered in that grippy silicone stuff everyone loves to coat their products with these days.
Along with the Apple TV and remote control, you’ll find a Lightning cable for charging the remote. What you won’t find in the box is an HDMI cable, which would have been a welcome addition considering the Apple TV’s premium price.
Setup If you’re an iPhone owner, Apple is prepared to save you a little set-up hassle. Once you’ve fed power to the set-top box and connected it to your TV via the HDMI cable you had to buy, the Apple TV will run you through a set-up wizard. The most notable part of this process is setting up your Wi-Fi connection, provided you’re going the wireless route (the Apple TV does have an Ethernet port, which we recommend using if a line is available at your installation location).
If you have an iPhone running iOS 9.1 or later, make sure you have it handy and have Bluetooth turned on. When prompted you can simply hold your device in proximity to the Apple TV; doing so will prompt your phone to share your Wi-Fi settings. This is far easier than selecting the correct access point and pecking your password out on a virtual keyboard, especially if your password is long, complicated, or easily forgotten.
From here, the Apple TV will ask whether you want to enable Siri, whether you want to enable location services, and whether you want to share diagnostic data with Apple – that sort of thing. At this point you are set up most of the way, but we do recommend enabling Home Sharing if you want to share content across your Apple devices.
Side note: The Apple TV uses 802.11ac Wi-Fi, which is great if you have a router that supports the standard but does nothing to help you out if you use wireless profiles N or below. The Apple TV’s reception isn’t especially powerful, so don’t expect it to solve any problems you might have with other devices in the same location.
The Hardware We’ll get to the Apple TV box itself in a moment. It’s the remote that really sets the Apple TV apart from its competition.
The Apple TV remote’s best feature is its touchpad. Not only does it speed up navigation considerably, but it also reduces wear and tear from repeated button pressing. In some cases, it allows for game play, though that sort of limited interface isn’t super compelling.
Aside from the touchpad, the few buttons Apple provides are quite useful too. A menu button effectively serves as a “back” button, backing you out of whatever you dove into, one screen at a time. There’s also a “home” button of sorts – it looks like a TV – which pulls you out of whatever you were doing and plunks you down in the home screen.
If the touchpad doesn’t impress you, dig this: The Apple TV is designed to automatically detect the make and model of the TV or A/V receiver it is connected to, then program the remote to control the volume of the device. You can program it manually if needed, but for the vast majority of people, it will just work — like so many of Apple’s products.
We have less to rave about when it comes to the box itself. It packs a powerful A8 chip, and you can opt for either a 32GB or 64GB version. Once again, Apple refuses to make its device’s storage capacity expandable. You’ll find no Micro SD card slot here. Also, don’t expect an optical digital audio port, either. Apple ditched it, just as Amazon did with its Fire TV box. This is a shame, since that connection makes integrating a sound bar, A/V receiver, or self-powered speakers much easier.
The biggest hardware disappointment, however, is the Apple TV’s lack of 4K Ultra HD support. We understand Apple’s tendency to play to the masses, and 4K Ultra HD has hardly had time to enjoy mass adoption, but it isn’t a fad, either. Many consumers will likely buy a new TV after buying an Apple TV and find themselves wishing for 4K support. Amazon’s Fire TV, the Roku 4, and Nvidia Shield all offer 4K resolution, with Amazon, Netflix, Vudu, UltraFlix, and others offering increasingly large catalogs of 4K content to watch. It’s hard not to call this one a miss.
Siri search and control Amazon’s Alexa may be a more capable digital voice assistant on the whole, but when taken within the context of Apple TV, Siri rules, and there’s plenty of room for her to get even better.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends Siri covers the basics, as you would expect. You can ask to see a list of available movies featuring a certain actor, or a list of available sci-fi TV shows, for example. Go ahead, get specific – it will help you learn where Siri’s capabilities come to an end.
What you may not expect is to be able to drill down to a more granular level within those searches. For instance, you can say “Show me movies with Robert Duvall,” then later add, “Only the ones from the ’90s,” or “Only the good ones.” Pretty slick.
It’s the remote that really sets the Apple TV apart from its competition.
Siri will search your iTunes library for music, movies, and TV shows if you are in the iTunes app. But if you search from the home screen, Siri will also return results from Netflix. This is a nice start, but we wish Siri polled more apps. Perhaps in time she will.
Outside of providing sports scores, weather information, or stock information, Siri can also control what you’re watching. For instance, you can turn on closed captions, rewind or fast forward a specified amount of time, find out who stars in a movie or sings a song, and even ask “What did he say?” to have Siri back up and replay the last segment you just watched.
How fun is this? We’ll admit it, the Apple TV is a ton of fun to use – this coming from an unabashed Roku and Amazon Fire TV fan. Apple knows user interfaces, and it shows with tvOS. The entire screen is used to its maximum potential, colors are beautiful, icons have that rounded Apple shape, and even apps created for Apple TV tend to be superior to their Roku and Android counterparts. Plex, for instance, has a refreshingly different look and feel on the Apple TV.
There’s not much more to say about the user interface. It’s pretty great, and we think even tech novices would find it easy to get around. Well done (again), Apple.
One serious roadblock Amazon Prime Video is quickly making itself a cord-cutter staple. Amazon has solid original TV series, exclusive deals on some highly desirable HBO content, and a wealth of movies to enjoy. Unfortunately, despite being available on iPhones and iPads, the Amazon Prime Video app isn’t available for Apple TV. Not good.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Granted, there’s a workaround. You just have to start the show you want to watch on your iPhone or iPad, then AirPlay it to the Apple TV. The Apple TV will pull the content from the cloud so your mobile device doesn’t die. But this workaround is a major hassle – take it from someone who uses Amazon Prime Video every day.
Spotify is also not an option, which is another potential deal breaker. Again, AirPlay can force it, but it’s a lot more hassle.
Eventually, we ended up disconnecting the Apple TV and replacing it with a Roku for easier access to these popular services.
Conclusion If you’re a fan of all things Apple, the Apple TV is sure to be a delight in your entertainment system. It’s quick, fun and easy to use, and it brings the entire Apple content universe to your big screen.
If, however, you aren’t so heavily invested in all things Apple, we recommend considering a Roku 4 or Amazon Fire TV. The competition offers 4K resolution, better content search, expandable storage, and costs less.
The Apple TV may be a wonderful device, but it’s not the best choice for everyone.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted DirecTV Stream raises pricing across all its tiers What is Apple Music? Music, pricing, and features explained Peacock TV free trial: Can you stream for free Entertainment Smart Home Apple Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Streaming Services TV Audio / Video Is it time to upgrade your home theater system? The Super Bowl is closer than you think, and the NBA season just started. There are new blockbuster movies hitting streaming services everyday. Plus, TVs are not nearly as expensive as they were even five years ago. We've collected the bst of the best TV deals out there right now, including unmissable OLED TV deals and QLED TV deals. These deals come from top-of-the-line brands like LG and Samsung as well as budget options like Roku, Hisense and TCL.
40-inch Roku Select Series HDTV -- $180, was $230 If you're looking for a cheap 4K TV with all the features, and size doesn't matter, this 40-inch Roku is the perfect option -- you can stop reading now. This little smart TV is perfect for a dorm room, workspace or garage. It has Roku smart tech in it, so you can stream your favorite shows right from the TV without needing a cable box, console, or even a streaming stick. But please note: This is the only TV on this list that is not 4K, just FHD, or 1080p.
Audio / Video Sling TV — the third-largest live streaming service in the U.S. — today announced a handful of new features that touch a wide swath of the Sling experience.
Here’s what users have to look forward to: Audio / Video If you're in the market for a new music streaming service or are maybe looking to switch from one of the other players out there like Spotify or Tidal, then you can't really go wrong with Apple Music. With a catalog of more than 100 million songs, all in high-quality lossless audio at no additional cost, as well as a huge amount of albums and tracks in Dolby Atmos spatial audio, Apple's been a contender in this space for nearly as long as music streaming has been a thing. And while it does play a close second fiddle to Spotify's excellent UI and music discovery (as well as in global subscriptions), the music streamer is still a giant and is loaded with cool features, live shows, and exclusives making it a solid choice if you're deciding which to run with.
But the biggest factor for most is how much it costs. While there are some limited-time "free" options and a free trial you can cash in on to check out Apple Music, if you stick with the service long enough, you will end up paying. Let's take a closer look at how much Apple Music costs.
Apple Music plans Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
