Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple TV 4K (2017) review: Stunning, but strictly for Apple fans Sleek and expensive, the Apple TV 4K will still delight the Apple faithful By Caleb Denison and Simon Cohen Close $179.00 Extremely intuitive interface Siri search/control is vastly improved Powerful graphics and processing Beautiful 4K HDR picture Slightly dim SDR content in some cases No longer the only way to do AirPlay Expensive compared to competition Apple debuted the Apple TV 4K in 2017, and despite ongoing software updates that keep it a streaming force to be reckoned with, the hardware has remained the same, and so has its price.
Out of the box Setup User experience Siri Layout: TV app or icon grid Gaming, fitness, and more The info The speed The picture quality Dolby Atmos Dwindling benefits Our Take For the first year or so following its launch, Apple could justify the $179 starting price for the 32GB model (the 64GB model costs $199), after all, it was one of the few streaming devices on the market that supported 4K, Dolby Vision , and Dolby Atmos.
 It could even be considered as one of the best streaming devices available.
Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more But it’s now 2020 and Apple’s competitors have not been standing still. Roku updated its flagship $100 Ultra , Amazon launched and continues to update its $120 Fire TV Cube , Nvidia up its game on the $150 Shield TV , and Google officially entered the remote-based media streamer category with the incredibly affordable $50 Chromecast with Google TV.
Apple’s little black box still does a few things better than these other products, but that list is dwindling, making it increasingly difficult to make an argument that you should spend so much. Let’s take an updated look at the Apple TV 4K and see if it’s still the king of the streaming device hill.
Out of the box Apple wrote the rule book for the out-of-box experience, and the Apple TV 4K packaging proves the company is still the master in this regard. From the heavy-gauge cardboard, to the tidy cable management, to the premium look and feel of the box and remote, everything about the Apple 4K TV screams “premium,” which, considering the $180 price tag, you should expect.
For that sum, you get a streaming device that feels like loving care and attention was put into its design. Most streamers are made of plastic, sure, but Apple’s is visibly superior. The remote feels great too – it sits in your hand just right, and makes you want to swipe that touchpad up top.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends Aside from the Apple TV 4K, its power cable, and its remote, you’ll also get a lightning cable to charge said remote and a quick-start guide comprising all of three sentences. That’s all you need because setup couldn’t get any simpler.
Setup If you own a relatively recent iOS device (sorry iPad 2 owners, you are excluded here), then you are already set to experience the slickest setup process we’ve seen from a set-top box yet. After selecting language and country, simply hold your iPhone or iPad near the Apple TV 4K, and a few clicks later your Wi-Fi information and Apple ID will have been copied over. Instantly, all of your iTunes purchases – music, TV shows, movies – will be available through your new Apple TV 4K.
Bonus if you are a third- or fourth-generation Apple TV owner who stores device settings in iCloud: Your tvOS layout will automatically be synced so your new streamer will look almost exactly like your old one – only better.
If you don’t own an iPhone or iPad, you’ll soon learn that you won’t be getting the very best the Apple TV 4K has to offer. As is to be expected, the more invested you are in Apple’s universe, the more bonuses and amenities you’ll enjoy.
Still, once you’ve manually connected to your Wi-Fi router (or, better yet, connect an Ethernet cable for a better overall experience), you’ll find there are plenty of treats in store. Either way, your Apple TV 4K is going to be set up in no time at all.
If this is your first Apple TV, or if you don’t store your tvOS setting in the cloud, you’ll find Netflix, Hulu, and many of the other usual suspects are not pre-installed, so you’ll need to go fetch them. Apple does make things a little easier for Pay TV subscribers by gathering provider information, then automatically downloading the streaming apps users can take advantage of with their paid TV subscription.
You’ll also need to log into all your apps, which is the most tedious process involved with setting up any streaming box or smart TV. Apple makes it easier by automatically offering text entry via iOS on iPhone or iPad to key in usernames and passwords, or by using Siri to speak the letters and numbers aloud and have them transcribed. Both methods are infinitely less hassle than hunting and pecking your way through a virtual keyboard, though that option is available, too.
User experience Apple has always put an emphasis on user experience (known in the tech sphere as “UX,” because acronyms), which has resulted in catchphrases like “it just works,” along with products that earn a reputation as being easy for everyone to use. The Apple TV 4K is rich in UX, and the conveniences and thoughtful features run deep. There’s also a wealth of apps for Apple’s set-top device. We can’t discuss them all here, but we’ll touch on those we feel are the most notable.
Siri Most folks are familiar with Apple’s digital assistant already, but Siri in the Apple TV 4K is especially helpful.
Remote tips and key features provided to Digital Trends by Apple: Ask Siri “What should I watch tonight?” and a menu of suggested films and shows will appear on the lower third of the screen, with all recommendations handpicked daily by editors to showcase what’s buzzworthy.
Double-tap the Home button on the remote and you’ll see the apps you’ve used most recently, allowing you to seamlessly switch between apps without having to go all the way back to the Home screen.
Move your most-used apps to the top row of the Home screen for faster access. For example, add Netflix to your mix, and when the icon is selected, shortcuts to Netflix titles appear above. Just click a title to start watching.
Easily organize apps on the Apple TV with folders.
If you highlight a title in Up Next, press and hold, and you’ll get quick shortcuts like marking an episode as watched.
You can add any iTunes movie to your Up Next queue using Siri just by saying “Add this to Up Next” on the movie page.
Press the Play button on any title in Watch Now to start playing instantly.
Ask Siri to “Play TVShowX” from your Up Next list to continue binge watching.
One of Siri’s most helpful applications is finding stuff you want to watch — more specifically, finding 4K and HDR content you can watch.
Siri’s search results are not as exclusive as they once were. Apple could have restricted search results to iTunes offerings , but the Apple TV 4K now shows if the TV show or movie you want to watch is available outside of iTunes. Search for Orange is the New Black , and you’ll have the option to buy or rent through iTunes, or watch it for free on Netflix (provided you have a Netflix subscription, of course.) You’ll get similar returns from a search for The Handmaid’s Tale, which you can watch through iTunes, but is available free with a Hulu subscription.
What’s more, a narrow search for a specific movie title or a more targeted search for movies starring certain actors returns a long list of results from numerous streaming sources. We tried searching for “movies starring Charlize Theron,” and there were certainly many we could only get through iTunes, but there were several available from other streaming services to which we are subscribed. We even searched for “ 4K movies on Netflix ” and were delighted when the Apple TV 4K showed us a long list of titles we could start watching in 4K.
Other search tricks include asking to see movies in 4K HDR from multiple sources, then refining the search by saying, “show me only the science fiction movies.” If you miss a piece of dialogue, ask Siri, “what did they say?” and she’ll back the video up 15 seconds and turn on subtitles for that period. You can also ask Siri to skip ahead or forward for a specific amount of time instead of using the reverse or fast-forward buttons.
Layout: TV app or icon grid Image used with permission by copyright holder The Apple TV 4K’s layout is intuitive, particularly for previous Apple TV users, with a big and bold grid of colorful icons for each app. But since tvOS 13, Apple TV users have another option, which is to use the Apple TV app as their chosen home screen experience.
The TV app acts as a one-stop-shop for all of your streaming needs, with an interface that mimics what you’d see on Netflix, or Amazon Prime Video. The difference is that the TV app pulls in content from all of the most popular services, not just one, and makes recommendations based on your watching patterns and your subscriptions.
Supported services include Apple TV+ , Disney+ , Hulu , HBO Max , Peacock , and Pluto TV.
 With some services, like Netflix, the TV app will show you recommended shows, but to actually watch them, you’ll be pushed to the Netflix app, instead of watching within the TV app.
It can track which movies or episodes you’ve watched, and this lets it provide “keep watching” and “watch next” lists.
If you’re a Spectrum or AT&T cable customer, you can watch your subscribed channels within the TV app instead of needing to switch inputs on your TV.
With dedicated sections for sports and kids, plus the ability to access all of the same content while on-the-go using the Apple TV app for iPhone, iPad, or the Mac, it’s a very robust experience.
Gaming, fitness, and more Apple You’ve got to hand it to Apple: Even though the Apple TV 4K is rapidly approaching its fourth birthday, it keeps getting new features.
In 2019, Apple added Apple Arcade, a subscription service aimed at casual gamers. To help with the experience, it expanded support for gaming controllers from the very restrictive list of made-for-iOS devices, to include both the Sony PlayStation 4 and Microsoft Xbox, controllers. Unfortunately, developers and gamers alike haven’t exactly made Apple Arcade a runaway success.
More recently, Apple announced its Fitness+ subscription service , a virtual set of workouts guided by professionally hosted videos (via the Apple TV, naturally) and tied to the sensors built into the Apple Watch.
 We can’t say yet how good Fitness+ is (it launches later this year) but here’s how it compares to Peloton on paper.
The latest version of the Apple TV software, tvOS 14 , brings with it some cool extras like picture-in-picture, the ability to monitor HomeKit-compatible security cameras from your TV, and support for audio-sharing when you pair two Apple or Beats wireless headphones to the Apple TV 4K.
The info The Apple TV 4K makes it clear whether 4K with HDR is available for the content you’re watching, which is more than can be said for some of its competition. Ratings for TV shows and movies are also plentiful, sourced from multiple outlets like Rotten Tomatoes.
 You can also learn more about the cast and crew of your favorite flicks and TV shows by clicking on actors’ profile picture. This is like Amazon’s X-Ray feature , but more beautifully implemented.
The speed The Apple TV 4K is fast , thanks to the A10X Fusion processor under the hood. If your internet connection can keep up, load times are lightning-quick, info screens appear instantly when clicked on, and even scrolling through long ribbons of titles is remarkably smooth and speedy.
The picture quality In HDR modes, the picture quality on the Apple TV 4K is outstanding. the 4K content in Dolby Vision and HDR10 looks beautiful, especially from movies on iTunes. Most SDR (Standard Dynamic Range) content also looks very good.
Pro tip: Apple TV 4K used to convert 24 frame-per-second films to 60 frames per second before delivering it to the TV, and there was no way to disable it. Now, there’s an option to “match content” for both audio and video in the settings, which we recommend you use.
Dolby Atmos A major addition to Apple TV 4K that came in 2018 with tvOS 12 was support for Dolby Atmos, the leading home surround sound format. Though not fully compatible with all apps (Plex, for instance, can handle Dolby Atmos but only if the source is Dolby Digital Plus, not Dolby TrueHD), this was a big win for home theater owners with Dolby Atmos sound systems. Here’s how to know if you’re actually getting Dolby Atmos on your Apple TV 4K.
If you subscribe to Tidal’s HiFi tier , you can use the Tidal app to listen to Dolby Atmos Music tracks if you have a compatible home theater system or soundbar.
Dwindling benefits There was a time when owning an Apple TV was the only way to use AirPlay to do screen mirroring or content casting from an iOS device to your TV. It was also the only way to access iTunes movies and TV shows. But times have changed, and these once-exclusive features are starting to show up embedded into the latest generation of smart TVs and third-party streaming devices.
The iTunes Movies and TV app, and Apple Music app are now available on 2018 and newer Samsung smart TVs.
AirPlay 2 has been added to the newest smart TVs from Samsung, LG, Vizio, and Sony. It’s also coming to 4K-capable Roku in the coming months. Along with AirPlay 2, most of these devices will also be getting Apple’s smart home platform, HomeKit, which will let them be controlled by Siri.
The Apple TV app, arguably the nerve center for the Apple TV 4K’s overall user experience is also showing up on these same devices as well as Amazon’s Fire TV platform. The TV app isn’t the entirety of the Apple TV experience, but it’s a significant chunk.
When you consider just how much capability is packed into less expensive streaming devices like the Chromecast with Google TV, Fire TV Stick 4K, or Roku Ultra, the question really becomes, how much value do you put on the Apple TV 4K’s exclusive features like Apple Arcade or Apple Fitness+.
Warranty The Apple TV 4K warranty provided by Apple protects against product defects for one year from purchase. Apple also offers an extended AppleCare Protection Plan warranty.
Our Take The Apple TV 4K is a zippy, slick device with Apple’s unique design stamp all over it. Those deeply embedded in the Apple universe will be tickled with the way the streaming set-top box integrates with other Apple devices, as well as with Siri integration that offers convenient search and voice controls.
Is there a better alternative? For Apple power users, the Apple 4K TV is a perfect fit. But for anyone else, devices like Roku’s Streaming Stick+, Roku Ultra, Amazon’s Fire TV Stick 4K , or Chromecast with Google TV offer a lot more value for the money, with gobs of their own useful features not found in the Apple TV 4K. For more information about these alternatives, here’s a rundown of the Chromecast with Google TV, Roku Streaming Stick, and Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K.
How long will it last? With the A10X Fusion processor inside, the Apple TV 4K still has plenty of untapped potential. And even if Apple announces new hardware this year, you can bet the company will continue to support the current generation for many years to come.
Should you buy it? Do buy the Apple TV 4K if you are heavily invested in the Apple universe and/or have a large library of movies, TV shows, and music from the iTunes store — and you have no intention of buying a new smart TV any time soon. Don’t buy the Apple TV 4K if you’re just looking to get 4K HDR content through an easy-to-use device priced well under $100.
To help you save some money, here are the best Apple TV deals we’ve found today.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Apple Apple Apple TV Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Audio / Video If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That's why we've listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don't have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there's something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we've picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV -- $298, was $348 The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that's ideal if you're on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There's also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
Audio / Video Checking out all the TV deals but know your heart is set on a 75-inch model? We've narrowed things down here to all the best 75-inch TV deals going on at the moment. Encompassing everything from regular 4K TVs to the latest in 8K and Mini-LED technology, there's something for every budget and need here. Keep reading while we take you through the best options currently available.
Onn. 75-inch 4K TV -- $498 The Onn. 75-inch 4K TV isn't technically on sale but it's an amazing price for a 75-inch 4K TV. Its huge 75-inch screen is teamed up with useful features like three HDMI ports. It also has Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily find movies and TV episodes across thousands of free or paid channels. There's also the Roku mobile app which means that you can use voice commands to find what you want to watch rather than needing to use the remote. It's straightforward enough and ideal for those on a budget.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
