Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Reviews Apple TV 4K (2021) review: It’s all about that new Siri remote By Simon Cohen Close $179.00 Snappy performance Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos Much improved remote control Expensive With the 2nd-Generation Apple TV 4K, Apple did what it does best: It took an already good product and found a few ways to make it just a bit better.
What’s in the box? Design About that new Siri remote Performance Video quality Audio quality User experience Control Center Picture-in-picture (PiP) Our take The Apple TV 4K Gen 2 is simply a faster, more powerful version of the original 2017 device , largely thanks to its A12 Bionic CPU. But the biggest change isn’t found in the little black box at all — it’s in the new Siri voice remote. Even the relatively high prices that Apple charges for its 4K streamer ($179 for a 32GB version and $199 for the 64GB model) stayed the same when the device was launched.
Of course, there’s now an all-new 3rd-Generation version, for which the starting prices have actually gone down. You can read more about that in our Apple TV 4K (2022) review.
If you’re considering saving a bit of money by purchasing the 2nd-Gen Apple TV 4K (2021), consider checking out our comparison to the new model in our Apple TV 4K (2021) vs. Apple TV 4K (2022) article.
What’s in the box? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Inside the fully recyclable cardboard box, you’ll find the Apple TV 4K, a power cable, the new Siri remote, a USB-to-Lighting cable for charging the remote (or any other Lightning-based Apple devices you may own), some printed warranty and safety material, and Apple’s ubiquitous white logo stickers.
The new remote finally makes using an Apple TV 4K a pleasant experience for everyone.
What you won’t find is an HDMI cable.
 Apple’s ongoing decision to omit a cable, especially at the prices it charges, feels stingy, even if there’s no lack of high-quality HDMI cables at affordable prices from Amazon.
Design Apple TV 4K (top) and Apple TV 4K Gen 2 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If I handed you both the new Apple TV 4K and its predecessor, you’d need a magnifying glass to tell them apart (the model number printed on the bottom is the only real giveaway). The dimensions, glossy black plastic trim, and the three ports on the back panel (power/Ethernet/HDMI) are all identical. But it’s hard to complain: The classic design becomes an almost invisible part of your home theater.
The biggest change is the new Siri remote. Much has already been written about the new all-aluminum design: The way it feels more substantial in your hand, the fact that you no longer have to torture yourself with a touchpad that many people found too difficult to use, and the inclusion of dedicated TV power and mute buttons. I agree with all of these observations — the new remote is a welcome change and the design is classic Apple: simple and elegant.
The new model is a snappy performer, with fast responses to navigation, launching apps, and starting streams.
But in reengineering the Siri remote, Apple missed two big opportunities for further improvement. It should have added a remote-finder feature (an obvious miss given the rollout of its AirTags tech), and I’m stunned that there’s still no charging indicator of any kind. It remains the only device I’ve encountered that offers no confirmation that charging is actually happening or when it’s complete.
About that new Siri remote Second-gen Siri remote (left) and the original Siri remote Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If you’ve ever struggled with the original Siri remote’s touchpad, the new version is a revelation, especially for on-screen keyboards. The touchpad has been replaced with a “clickpad” — a circular directional ring and a central OK button. Both can be clicked with a press, but they’re also touch-sensitive. You can use the entire area to tap and swipe just like on the original touchpad, or click it like a traditional remote.
It’s a better interface regardless of how you choose to use it. Using the ring portion of the clickpad as a video scrubbing control is my favorite new feature. When playing a video, simply place your finger or thumb on the ring (don’t click) and a playback timeline appears on the TV. As you slide your thumb around the ring’s circumference, you’ll slide the progress indicator forward or back. It’s easy, intuitive, and makes jumping to a specific moment in a movie or show a snap.
This, in a nutshell, is what the second-gen remote fixes, and it finally makes using an Apple TV 4K a pleasant experience for everyone. Putting the Siri mic button on the side of the remote was silly — it requires you to alter your grip on the remote to trigger it with your thumb — but it’s forgivable.
The TV power and mute buttons are also welcome additions, though seasoned Apple TV users know that putting the device to sleep will also trigger your TV to power down.
Performance Simon Cohen / Digital Trends With Apple’s new A12 Bionic chip aboard, there’s no question that the new model is a snappy performer, with fast responses to navigation, launching apps, and starting streams. But so was the previous version. The Apple TV — except for its support for gaming via Apple Arcade — doesn’t actually need a ton of extra horsepower for the vast majority of the things you’ll want it to do.
The extra detail your eye can perceive when shown high frame rate HDR is remarkable.
Yes, Siri seems to respond a little faster than before, and it’s possible that when I clicked to start a Netflix movie there was a slightly shorter delay before it began streaming, but honestly, it’s not very noticeable.
I suspect the inclusion of Apple’s hottest new chip has more to do with the company’s future ambitions — like turning the Apple TV 4K into a smart home hub that acts as the nexus for its HomeKit platform — than it has to do with the relatively straightforward act of streaming movies, music, and TV shows.
Video quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Watching video on the Apple TV 4K has always been an absolute pleasure. Especially when viewing Dolby Vision material in 4K, color, contrast, and brightness are superb. It depends on the capabilities of your specific TV, but after watching countless hours of streaming content on competitors from Roku, Nvidia, Amazon, and Google, and even gaming consoles like the PlayStation 4, I have to say the Apple TV 4K still looks the best to me.
With tvOS 14.5, Apple added a color-balance calibration tool that uses a FaceID-equipped iPhone to improve picture accuracy when viewing non-Dolby Vision content. When I tried it, I found it made almost no difference at all whether I was using a 4K OLED TV or a 720p LED TV, but I give Apple props for trying something new, especially given how fast and easy it was to try out the tool.
If Dolby Atmos matters to you, there’s no better streamer than the Apple TV 4K.
The new A12 Bionic chip lets the new Apple TV 4K support Dolby Vision and HDR10 at a so-called high frame rate (HFR) of 60 frames per second (fps) — again, assuming your TV supports it too. If it does, you’ll eventually be able to watch all kinds of movies, TV shows, and sports events in this ultra-smooth format. I tried it out using some sample videos on YouTube. It works beautifully. The extra detail your eye can perceive when shown more than twice as many frames per second is remarkable. But it’s also weird.
An unfortunate side effect of high frame rate video is that filmed entertainment tends to look hyper-real. In a sample from Will Smith’s Gemini Man , I found myself agreeing wholeheartedly with FilmmakerIQ’s John P Hess : It felt like I was looking through a window at Will Smith while he performed the role of a highly trained assassin. In other words, it creates a version of the soap opera effect , something that movie fans and filmmakers have been struggling with ever since TV makers started introducing motion-smoothing technologies.
When 60fps HDR becomes the standard for sports streaming, it will be huge, and the new Apple TV is ready for it, but I can’t say I’m looking forward to movies shot in HFR video.
Audio quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Audio is another standout area for the Apple TV 4K. Ever since an update in 2018, it has been able to natively support Dolby Atmos, the leading format for immersive surround sound.
It’s not alone — Nvidia’s 2019 Shield TV models, Roku’s Ultra (2020), and several other streamers also support Atmos natively — but more streaming apps deliver Atmos to the Apple TV 4K than any other streaming device.
And since Apple Music is about to get thousands of songs in Dolby Atmos (and millions in lossless audio quality) the Apple TV 4K is about to become an even better music streaming device (the Tidal app already lets you stream Dolby Atmos Music). If Dolby Atmos matters to you, there’s no better streamer than the Apple TV 4K.
And while the new version doesn’t add any additional audio formats (there’s still no support for DTS, DTS:X, or Dolby TrueHD), it does expand your choices for how you listen to audio. Thanks to a partial implementation of HDMI 2.1, the new model can now receive audio via HDMI ARC/eARC from a connected TV. If you use a soundbar, an A/V receiver, or even your TV’s built-in speakers for your sound, this new feature won’t matter much.
But, if you happen to own one or two Apple HomePods connected wirelessly to the Apple TV 4K, they can now act as your sound system for all content that hits your TV screen — from your cable box to your game consoles. Unfortunately, without any HomePods on hand, I couldn’t test this. This may feel like a bizarre feature to introduce given that Apple decided to discontinue the HomePod, but I don’t think we’ve heard the last from Apple when it comes to wireless home audio.
User experience Apple The Apple TV 4K user experience is controlled by tvOS, now in version 14.5. As Google, Amazon, and Roku have wrestled with the seemingly contradictory missions of giving people a curated and personalized content experience, while also giving them easy and direct access to their favorite streaming apps, Apple’s solution is by far the most elegant.
Using the remote’s TV/Control Center button, you can toggle between the original icon grid of apps, and the newer Apple TV App interface. You can also choose which one you’d like to be shown by default. If you use the Apple TV App view, you’ll see recommendations from your existing subscriptions like Disney+, HBO Max, and Amazon Prime Video (though not Netflix), while also being able to track your progress through episodic series with a convenient Up Next row of thumbnails as the top row. And since Apple added multi-user support to tvOS, these options (along with GameCenter data) are personalized to the selected user. It tends to promote content from Apple TV+, which could get annoying if you don’t subscribe to this service, but in fairness, the Amazon Fire TV user experience does the same thing but with Amazon content.
Control Center Apple Probably one of the most underappreciated features of the Apple TV 4K is the Control Center. Accessible via a long press on the TV/Control Center button, the Control Center side panel gives you easy access to a variety of functions like switching users, controlling music playback, accessing HomeKit-compatible security camera feeds, selecting HomeKit scenes, changing AirPlay speakers, using the search app, and putting the Apple TV into sleep mode.
The security camera function is particularly useful and fun. It’s amazingly easy to pull up feeds from HomeKit-enabled cameras, and doorbells will even send notifications to the Apple TV so you can instantly see who’s at the door (sadly, you can’t use the Siri remote to talk to your visitor).
Picture-in-picture (PiP) Apple There still aren’t many apps that support it, but you can shrink down a playing video into a smaller window, letting you navigate the rest of the Apple TV interface in the larger part of the screen. From there, you can launch a second stream and play them simultaneously, swap which one is larger, or close the PiP window.
Our take Though still very expensive, the second-generation Apple TV 4K is a streaming technological tour de force, and the new Siri remote finally fixes one of its least appealing features. If you’re already invested in Apple’s ecosystem and you value its many capabilities, the new Apple TV 4K is a worthwhile investment.
Is there a better alternative? No other streaming media device has the Apple TV 4K’s full contingent of features, but then again, not everyone needs what Apple has to offer.
For less than $100, the Roku Ultra (2020) comes incredibly close, with tons of streaming app support, Dolby Vision, Dolby Atmos, a voice-enabled remote control, and even some of Apple’s own technologies: AirPlay, HomeKit, and the Apple TV App are all included.
If you want a powerhouse streamer with even better gaming chops than the Apple TV 4K, both the Nvidia Shield TV (2019) and Nvidia Shield TV Pro (2019) can run circles around Apple’s streamer, but they’re still on the pricey side, and not everyone will love its bare-bones Android TV interface.
At a highly affordable $50, the Google Chromecast with Google TV does everything that most folks need a streaming device to do, including Dolby Vision and Atmos, but it’s not as refined (or as feature-rich) as the Apple TV 4K.
How long will it last? Apple is very good about long-term support for its products. I expect the new Apple TV 4K will continue to get software updates for at least four years, if not longer. The hardware itself is very high-quality, especially the Siri remote, which I expect will last for many years — assuming it doesn’t get lost between the couch cushions. Apple backs the Apple TV 4K with a one-year warranty, but like all Apple products, you can extend this with an optional, paid AppleCare warranty.
Should you buy it? Yes, but only if you value the features that are unique to the Apple TV 4K. Otherwise, the less expensive options we list above are a better buy.
Because you can buy the new Siri remote on its own for $59, first-gen Apple TV 4K owners are better off paying that than dropping $179 on a whole new box.
Editors' Recommendations Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Vizio’s new Quantum 4K QLED TVs hit 75 inches for $699 Walmart TV deals: 55-inch 4K TV for under $250 and more Samsung takes on TCL with 98-inch 4K TV that costs just $8,000 Apple Apple Apple TV Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Audio / Video Apple has announced two new versions of the Apple TV 4K. Both are good for all kinds of reasons. Better internals. New features. And prices that are much more likely to be competitive, even if they're still a good bit north of what folks are spending on the likes of Roku and Amazon Fire TV devices.
But two new Apple TV 4K boxes -- and the death of the lower-resolution Apple TV HD -- means you've got a decision to make. Which Apple TV 4K is right for you? Audio / Video Apple today announced a new version of Apple TV 4K. It's the third generation of what we consider to be the best streaming device you can buy, and Apple's not really messing with things too much. Same general design. Same general function. But the internals have been tweaked that allow this 2022 model (which follows the models released in September 2017 and May 2021) to work better with more TVs — and to allow for a little more flexibility in price.
Here are the big deals: There are now two versions of Apple TV 4K (or SKUs, for those of you who prefer inside-baseball terms). There's a model that's Wi-Fi only with 64GB of storage for $130, or a model with Wi-Fi and Ethernet with 128GB of storage for $150. For our money, we'd just go ahead and spend the extra $20.
Audio / Video We've reached that point in the Apple news cycle in which rumors run rampant ahead of an event — in this case, the September iPhone 14 event — and SEO checkboxes are being checked. It's how we know nature is healing.
That doesn't mean every iPhone rumor is going to come to fruition, however. Far from it. To wit: new AirPods Pro are possible but unlikely on September 7.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
