Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Google Chromecast 2020 review: What we always wanted By Caleb Denison Close $50.00 Affordable Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos support Slick UI Responsive Integrated Google Assistant Dolby Vision always on by default Recommendation algorithm still learning I’m impressed. The new Google Chromecast with Google TV looked pretty good on paper, but now that I’ve been using one for the past couple of weeks, I can safely say it’s even better than I expected.
Out of the box Features and specs Setup The Google TV part Performance Our take I never warmed up to the original Chromecast. Call me old school, but I like a remote control and an on-screen interface — the original Chromecasts had neither. I just couldn’t get down with my phone, tablet, or PC being the primary control for my TV watching. The $35 Google Chromecast that’s been around for 7 years was never for me, and the $70 Google Chromecast Ultra’s 4K resolution wasn’t enough to lure me in. But the new $50 Google Chromecast with Google TV is priced better, does more, and, to my surprise, I’m really into it.
Best streaming devices for 2023: Apple TV, Roku, and more What is Google TV? Here’s everything you need to know Google TV gives NFL Sunday Ticket top billing, adds FAST channels That doesn’t necessarily mean the Google Chromecast with Google TV is right for everyone, though. So let’s dig into what this little dongle can and can’t do, and whether it’s right for you.
Note: Google in September 2022 released an HD version of this Chromecast that tops out at 1080p and lacks other features like Dolby Vision.
Out of the box The Google Chromecast with Google TV has an unnecessarily long name, even if it is technically meaningful in distinguishing what’s different about it compared to previous Chromecast versions (more on that in a minute). Fortunately, just about everything else about the device is dead simple.
Caleb Denison/Digital Trends It all starts with the packaging and what’s in the box. The packaging appears to be almost entirely recyclable — and there isn’t much of it. In the box is the Chromecast dongle, a remote, a small USB-A power brick, a USB-A to USB-C cable, and two AAA batteries — and folks, I love the batteries.
Yeah, you read that right. The AAA batteries Google ships with the new Chromecast have the same silky, rubbery, silicone exterior as the Chromecast dongle, remote control, and power cable. I actually giggled with delight when I shucked them from their plastic cocoon to put them into the remote. Nice touch, Google. Unboxing win.
Features and specs As is well-known, the original Chromecast and Chromecast Ultra (4K) let users find content on their phones and “cast” it to their TV to watch on the big screen. The original devices were essentially invisible. The big improvement here is the addition of an on-screen interface and a remote control.
The remote control comes with power and volume buttons that control your TV. Oddly, the power button is located on the lower-left section of the compact remote, but the volume buttons on the side will feel familiar to anyone who has used a Roku or Amazon Fire TV remote with similar buttons.
At the top of the remote is a circle that allows you to click up, down, left, and right. Below the circle are a Google Assistant button, a “back” key, a mute button, two hotkeys for accessing YouTube and Netflix, and a home button. The remote feels great, but the button layout took some getting used to, if only because I’ve been using other streaming device remotes for so long.
Caleb Denison/Digital Trends The Chromecast dongle plugs directly into a TV’s HDMI port, which eliminates any concern about having a high-speed HDMI cable that will support 4K HDR and Dolby Vision.
That brings up two of the most astounding features found in the new Google Chromecast, especially for the $50 price: Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos.
 Dolby Vision content libraries are growing at a quick clip on services like Netflix, Disney +, and Amazon Prime Video, and with a Dolby Vision-capable TV, that content looks fantastic. Dolby Atmos surround sound support is also available, but its availability will vary from one streaming app to another.
Google doesn’t publish much around the new Chromecast’s antenna, but from my experience, it has done a better-than-average job of pulling in Wi-Fi signals for steady streaming.
Setup As easy as it is to use the new Chromecast, getting it set up takes some time. That’s true for many streaming devices today as they get more advanced. There are some hoops to jump through here that are unique to the new Chromecast, though.
If you don’t already have the Google Home app for iOS or Android, you’ll want to download it — it’s required to get the Chromecast set up. Once the Chromecast with Google TV is powered up, it will appear as a new device to set up within the Google Home app. Simply follow the instructions and the device will be connected to your network in no time. Most folks will use Wi-Fi, but there is an Ethernet adapter accessor available as an added purchase.
From there, the Chromecast will offer a few apps to install (any others must be installed manually at a later time), test to operate your TV’s power and volume, fetch some updates, restart a few times, set up Google Assistant voice tracking — and ultimately the device will be set up. This will take a while. But wait, there’s more.
Caleb Denison/Digital Trends Here is where Google could vastly improve the Google TV experience: By logging users into their streaming apps. Google stores all my passwords. I’m logged into my apps on my Android phone. It’s not a huge ask for Google to automate the sign-in process. So … please, Google? For now, users must go through the tedious process of entering usernames and passwords for all the streaming apps to which they subscribe. Frankly, this is probably the most time-consuming part of the setup.
One final and very important note: By default, the new Chromecast ships with always-on Dolby Vision. This means that if your TV supports Dolby Vision, everything will be presented in Dolby Vision, and thus your picture presets will be limited. Not only that, but non-Dolby Vision content won’t look right. Even the colors of apps on Google TV don’t look right. To fix this, navigate to Settings , and under Video Settings , select Match Content.
 This ensures the TV only goes into Dolby Vision mode when Dolby Vision content is playing.
The Google TV part The new Google Chromecast with Google TV is all about the Google TV on-screen interface, and though it looks quite different from the Android TV interface found in Sony and some Hisense TVs, as well as the Nvidia Shield, it feels familiar despite some key differences.
Google TV is heavily focused on content recommendation. It learns what you like to watch over time and attempts to put the content you want front and center. Furthermore, it doesn’t require you to go into a specific app to watch it. Not manually, anyway. You’ll simply see a place to click on Captain Marvel right next to a slide to click on Stranger Things.
 There’s nothing denoting the content is on HBO Max or Netflix respectively. Not until the next screen where you press the play button, anyway.
Caleb Denison/Digital Trends If you want to explore content available on a given platform like Netflix or HBO Max, the apps are all laid out on a strip just below the “For You” section. Whether you will need/want to do so may depend on how well Google figures out your viewing preferences and habits.
Clearly, for households with several viewers, individual profile support is crucial and, not to worry, the new Chromecast does support that, just not in the way you might expect if you’re used to Disney + or Netflix’s approach.
For individual Google TV content recommendations, users will need to sign into their own Google account. This has no impact on individual apps, though. No matter whose Google account is being used, Netflix and other apps will still offer the same profiles based on whoever is signed into those apps.
Performance The new Google Chromecast with Google TV performs well as a piece of streaming hardware. It does a pretty decent job of keeping up with my fast-paced clicking and scrolling, though I can certainly catch it lagging behind when I push it hard, similar to the experience I’ve had with the Amazon Fire TV Stick and Roku Streaming Stick +.
Apps and content load quickly, too. Casting is the same as it’s ever been, so no changes there. Overall, the device is perfectly capable given its $50 price. You’d have to step up to an Amazon Fire TV Cube or the new Roku Ultra to get anything substantially faster or more powerful.
To me, though, the real performance metric here is that of the Google TV experience. And on that front, I have to say: So far, so good.
Google TV hasn’t totally nailed down my viewing preferences, but to be fair, I’ve only been using it for a couple of weeks. I also expect Google to throw a few things against the wall to see what sticks with me. The process takes time, and I’ll update this section as I learn more.
Caleb Denison/Digital Trends I also enjoy having my YouTube suggested videos looking exactly the same on my TV as they look on my phone. It’s the little things.
The new Chromecast also joins up with many other Google smart home devices, making it possible to look at video feeds from Google Nest Cameras and Google Nest doorbells and act as part of a whole-home audio solution. You can also control the new Chromecast using a Google Home or Google Nest speaker.
Clearly, the Chromecast with Google TV offers more value to Android Phone users and fans of Google products in general. If you’re a hardcore Apple fan, the Apple TV 4K can offer a similar experience — for about three times the cost.
Still, purely on its merits as a streaming device, I think the new Google Chromecast with Google TV is a fantastic choice for just about anyone who isn’t already married to a smart TV platform.
Our take The new Google Chromecast with Google TV is a smart move in the right direction for a huge tech company that needed a little more presence in the streaming hardware space. The original Chromecast sold well because it was so cheap, but I think this new model is going to sell even better because it is a device you can interact with. If Google can get its content recommendation engine matured, this could be the world’s bestselling streamer in a matter of months.
Is there a better alternative? The Roku Streaming Stick + offers a simple streaming platform with its own advantages but doesn’t offer the sort of content recommendation Google TV does. At $40 and with 4K/HDR capabilities, it is a strong option, but I’m reluctant to call it “better.” By comparison, the Amazon Fire TV 4K also supports Dolby Vision, is tied firmly to the Amazon universe with Alexa integration, and costs $50. With similar specs, the choice comes down to whether you are on Team Google or Team Amazon.
How long will it last? It’s difficult to imagine a scenario in which the new Google Chromecast with Google TV would become irrelevant inside four or five years, which is about as long as you would want to use the device before getting the new latest thing anyway.
Should you buy it? Yes. The new Google Chromecast with Google TV is an outstanding product.
Editors' Recommendations The best Google TVs of 2023: from TCL, Sony, and Hisense What is Android TV? Google’s smart TV platform fully explained Google TV vs. Roku TV: which is the better streaming OS? Chromecast deals: The cheapest option for Google’s streaming device The Roku Channel is now available as a Google TV app Smart Home Cord Cutting 101 Google Chrome Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Audio / Video One of the benefits of being Digital Trends is that we get to test a lot of things that simply aren’t easily available or replaceable should they not work out for the average person. That’s why we put so much work into testing TVs, for one example. Or full soundbar setups, for another.
Other times it’s because we’re able to take products for a test drive before they go on sale. Like video games, or computers and phones. That’s good because it helps you make a relatively expensive and important purchase decision.
Audio / Video Ten years is not a bad run in the world of smart devices. That's how long it's been since Google released the very first Chromecast, a tiny $35 HDMI dongle that let you wirelessly stream audio and video to your TV, with your phone serving as the remote. We liked it so much when it debuted, we named it the best product of 2013.
Unfortunately, all good things must pass, and 9to5Google recently noticed that Google quietly ended support for the original Chromecast on April 27, 2023, which means it will no longer get any feature or security updates.
Audio / Video If you've been tooling around on your favorite Google TV device and have noticed that it just ... seems faster — that's because it is. Google in a post today in its support community noted some recent updates to its streaming platform that address onboard storage, as well as overall performance.
And you already should have the update.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
