Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Google Chromecast (3rd gen) review Google’s third HD Chromecast is still a good streamer, but its value is slipping By Ryan Waniata Close $35.00 Simple, intuitive HD streaming Slick new design Quick and easy setup Google Home app keeps improving No 4K or HDR No magnet What do you call a product update that’s so insignificant it’s unworthy of mention at your own hardware event? If you’re Google, you call it the Chromecast 3rd Generation.
Out of the box Getting going Couch casting What’s new? Performance Our Take Is there a better alternative? How long will it last? Should you buy it? While there’s not much new about the latest Chromecast, it’s still an easy and affordable way to stream HD video. And now that it’s got Amazon Prime Video support, it’s finally a comprehensive way to get your (HD) stream on.
The best Google TVs of 2023: from TCL, Sony, and Hisense What is Google TV? Here’s everything you need to know Google ends support for the original Chromecast (Editor’s note: This review has been updated to add information about new support for Prime Video following Amazon and Google’s truce.
) Out of the box Released in 2015, the second-generation Chromecast was the first to ditch the flash-drive look for a puck design. The third generation follows suit, offering a design that’s strikingly similar to both its predecessor and 2017’s 4K HDR-ready Chromecast Ultra.
 The new device is maybe a sliver thicker, but it feels sleeker thanks to its more modern, matte-plastic shell and monochromatic color scheme (available in “chalk” or “charcoal”). We’ll also give Google very minor props for making the new box slightly easier to open.
Other than a minor makeover, the only noticeable design change is that Google has done away with the magnet at the back, so even if your TV’s backside sports a metal facade, you’ll have to dangle your dongle. (Sorry, we couldn’t help ourselves.) As before, the device comes with a long USB cable and wall adapter for plugging into either your TV or outlet.
Getting going Unlike virtually all other streamers, Chromecasts don’t have an interface, per se. The closest thing would be Google’s Home app, which is updated fairly regularly and offers features like voice search and integration with other Google Home hardware. The app walks you through setup in minutes; just plug in, follow the directions, and you’ll be streaming in no time.
Couch casting The best reason to own a Chromecast is intuitive streaming (or “casting”) from virtually any streaming app on your mobile device. That has always been the key selling point, and it remains unchanged for the third generation.
Left: 2015 Chromecast; Right: New 2018 Chromecast Dan Baker/Digital Trends Whether you choose an HD Chromecast or the 4K HDR Chromecast Ultra, the ability to stream almost anything to your TV at the tap of a finger is a huge reason Chromecast is popular, perhaps second only to its affordable price. Chromecast also allows you to stream any browsing tab in Chrome, and even mirror your desktop. Even if it’s not your primary streamer, which is increasingly the case for many, it’s nice to have a Chromecast around when you need one.
What’s new? As we alluded to above, apart from an updated look, there’s very little new to report in the latest HD Chromecast. A side-by-side comparison reveals a near identical list of features for both the third-generation Chromecast and the 2015 model. Along with the same basic size and weight, both devices include HDMI connection, Micro USB input, Wi-Fi 802.11ac connection (2.4GHz/5GHz), and an optional Ethernet adapter.
Intuitive streaming has always been the key selling point, and that hasn’t changed.
When it comes to streaming, both Chromecasts max out at 1080p HD resolution (i.e., no 4K video or HDR support). The biggest notable difference here is that the latest Chromecast offers 1080p video at 60 frames per second, as opposed to 60 fps at a max 720p. Since most streaming TV from Netflix, HBO — and finally, Amazon Prime Video — tops out at 30 frames per second, the improved framerate won’t really matter for a lot of what you watch, and much of the content you’ll find on YouTube at higher framerates is offered in 4K resolution.
Where the higher framerate could make a very slight difference is for live sports content from streaming services like Sling TV , where the action should theoretically be more fluid for 1080p content when both sides of the streaming pipeline are firing on all cylinders. Newer TVs commonly offer a 60Hz native refresh rate (i.e., 60 cycles per second), meaning 60 frames-per-second video offers a frame to fill each moment on screen to provide cleaner movement with less stuttering. That said, a high volume of live sports content maxes out at 720p anyway, so there’s really very little to crow about here.
Performance As you’d expect, we didn’t notice any difference between our second-generation Chromecast and the new model, even when viewing live sports. Again, that’s mainly because it can be hard to even find 1080p sports content, and moreover, many TV streaming services often have trouble providing a stable enough 1080p stream to take advantage of 60 fps without stutters and resolution adjustments.
We also didn’t perceive a noticeable difference between the two devices when viewing 60 fps 1080p HD content from YouTube, which was delivered much more reliably.
Unlike the previous update in 2015, we also didn’t clock faster loading times or speedier response in comparison to the new Chromecast’s predecessor. Despite Google’s claim that the latest device is 15% faster thanks to improvements to clock rates, it’s got the same dual-core ARM architecture as its predecessor, and accordingly, our stopwatch told the same story.
Our Take Google’s new Chromecast is essentially just the old Chromecast with a new coat of paint. The higher framerate may be enjoyable for some in very specific situations such as live sports in 1080p resolution, but it’s no reason to trade in the older model. While Chromecast remains one of the easiest and most intuitive ways to stream, with several years of streaming history elapsed between models, we expected something (anything) more — especially when the latest tiny streaming devices from both Amazon and Roku offer 4K HDR resolution for not much more cash.
Is there a better alternative? Yes! As referenced above, there’s a higher class of affordable 4K HDR streaming devices, including Roku’s $40 Roku Premiere and the feature-packed $50 Roku Premiere+.
 For its part, Amazon also now offers a $50 4K HDR streamer in the Fire TV Stick 4K , which also adds Dolby Vision HDR alongside HDR10 and HDR10+ for an even more dynamic way to experience HDR’s improved contrast on supported TVs.
Of course, if you just love the versatility of casting, there’s also the 4K HDR Chromecast Ultra , which is a heftier upgrade at $69, but, like Amazon’s device, it also adds Dolby Vision HDR. For more options check out our best streaming devices.
How long will it last? While the third-generation Chromecast should hold up for years to come, the HD-streaming limitation is a real hindrance at this point. Even if you don’t yet own a 4K HDR TV , there’s a good chance you will in the near future, and you may well find yourself wondering why you bought an HD streaming device — even a highly affordable one — in 2019.
Should you buy it? We wouldn’t. As the replacement for the previous device , the third-generation is now the only HD Chromecast available, but if you already own one, there’s no real reason to upgrade, and if you don’t, there are plenty of more advanced streaming devices for just a few bucks more.
Editors' Recommendations Nebula’s new Capsule 3 and Mars 3 Air projectors go with Google TV What is Android TV? Google’s smart TV platform fully explained Chromecast deals: The cheapest option for Google’s streaming device Chromecast with Google TV makes the leap to Android 12 Google’s new Chromecast is cheaper, tops out at HD resolution Cord Cutting 101 Google Google Chrome Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Audio / Video Looking to up your streaming game? While smart TVs have a myriad of built-in apps and other features to keep you entertained for hours, adding a Google Chromecast to the mix really amps things up. Whether you're running a standard "casting" model or the all-new Chromecast with Google TV, Chromecast allows you to cast content from your phone or computer to your TV screen. The latest Google TV features a fully navigable app menu similar to Roku and Apple TV, along with a handy voice remote. But that's only the surface layer.
Once you understand the basics, there are loads more that you can get out of your Chromecast. Whether you want to put your computer screen on your TV or experience 3D VR, this device has you covered. Our guide to Google Chromecast tips and tricks is here to give you all the info on how to take advantage of these lesser-known capabilities so you can become a Chromecast master.
Audio / Video In 2013, Google debuted a small gadget called Chromecast. The device could wirelessly link people's TVs and other devices like smartphones, tablets, and computers. The versatile dongle that you simply plugged into an HDMI port on your TV was far more affordable than other streaming media devices like Roku and Apple TV, but it had less robust streaming offerings. Chromecast added a new meaning to the word "casting," virtually emulating the casting of a fisherman's line by wirelessly casting an image from one screen onto another.
Today, Google's Chromecast is on more than just a stick. It's implemented on a wide variety of smart devices, from TVs to soundbars and smart speakers. As the technology gains popularity, it's worth understanding what exactly Chromecast is, what it does, how to use it, and how it compares to similar wireless technologies. That's what we'll do here.
Is Chromecast hardware or software? Audio / Video We've been pretty impressed with Bose's collection of smart speakers and soundbars, especially their ability to connect seamlessly to Apple products via AirPlay 2. But because these products haven't included Google's Chromecast Wi-Fi audio streaming protocol, Android users have gotten the short end of the streaming stick. On February 8, that changed, thanks to a software update delivered by Bose through its Bose Music app that adds Chromecast built-in. The update is available to those who live in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the U.K., and the U.S.
The news that Bose products were slated to get this update initially came from Google in January 2022 as part of its virtual Better Together with Android and Beyond presentation at CES 2022, which included improvements to Google Fast Pair and other Android-specific advances. Bose was the only company Google mentioned by name, but it promised to also bring Chromecast built-in "to more brands." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
