Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Reviews Google Chromecast Ultra review Google's Chromecast Ultra is the cheapest path to razor-sharp 4K HDR By Ryan Waniata Close $69.00 Simple and affordable 4K streaming Widest HDR support available Intuitive interface and setup Dual-band Wi-Fi and Ethernet for strong connection Cross-platform search still mediocre Released to resounding success in 2013, Google’s Chromecast is about as simple as streaming devices get.
 Little more than a conduit that passes streaming video from the cloud to your TV — with your mobile device as the remote control — there’s little to add to Chromecast when it comes to updates, as illustrated by the latest 3rd-gen HD Chromecast , which is more face-lift than update. Really, the only place left for Chromecast to venture was into the world of 4K Ultra HD video. Enter the Ultra.
Setup Features and design Interface/usability Performance Our Take How long will it last? What are the alternatives? Should you buy it? An inevitable move to mirror the latest in TV technology, the Chromecast Ultra may not look much different, but under the hood is the key to unlocking the 4K streaming buffet, including support for High Dynamic Range to unleash the rich contrast and expanded color gamut of today’s most eye-popping video. While the upgrade pushes the Ultra’s price ($69) to double that of its predecessors, for those eyeing a versatile way to stream in 4K Ultra HD with HDR , it’s one of the best bargains around.
Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more (Editor’s note: This review has been updated to put the Ultra in context with the current crowd of streaming devices, and to update the addition of Amazon Prime app support.) Setup First things first, simply plug your Ultra into your TV and wall outlet — the new device can’t source power directly from your TV like its siblings. Now dubbed Google Home to signal broader functionality, the Chromecast app is essentially the same as it always was. Adding your new Ultra into the fold is as simple as clicking the device icon at the top right, and following the basic instructions.
For some users, stable 4K streaming could require hard-wiring the device to your modem via the new Ethernet port, located on the Ultra’s power adapter. Recommended streaming speed for 4K content is generally 25Mbps and up, which may rule out some routers. The device comes with no real accessories, so you’ll also need your own Ethernet cable on hand.
Features and design As mentioned, the new Chromecast looks a lot like the old ones, save for a glossy finish and a toned-down color scheme — it comes in black, and black. (Apparently, not too many users care about a colorful streamer hidden behind their TV.) The Chromecast logo has also been replaced with a “G,” to let you know it’s a “made by Google” product.
Connecting your Ultra is as simple as clicking the device icon at the top right, and following the instructions.
Some basic hardware upgrades have also been added, which Google claims will make the device “1.8” times faster at loading streaming content than some of its older predecessors. In practice, we didn’t experience much of a boost, though the Ultra was a few seconds faster, on average, at loading HD content than our 2015 Chromecast. Like the 2015 model, the Ultra’s Wi-Fi connection is 802.11ac compatible, and it will connect to both 2.4GHz and 5GHz access points. Google recommends a 5Ghz connection for 4K streaming.
While the most touted feature is 4K Ultra HD compatibility, just as important — some might say more so — is support for HDR (High Dynamic Range).
 You’ll need a certified Ultra HD Premium TV (which is more expensive) to fully appreciate it, but HDR is often referred to as the icing on the 4K cake, offering more vivid contrast and richer shading that enhances the expanded color gamut of top-tier 4K TVs. Unlike Roku and Nvidia’s Shield device, the Ultra supports both HDR10 (the most prevalent HDR format) and Dolby Vision (the second-most prevalent), still ranking among the most versatile 4K streamers in its price class.
By now, you may be asking yourself, “Don’t all new premium 4K TVs pack smart interfaces with 4K apps like Netflix and YouTube built right in?” To which we’d reply, “Yes, and that’s a very astute observation!” This fact limits the use cases for the Ultra significantly, as does the fact that 4K HDR content still isn’t as widely prevalent as HD streams. While the device was the only streamer that supported full HDR on YouTube upon its initial release, this is no longer the case.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends That said, the Chromecast’s app support is much heartier than most built-in TV interfaces, with support for apps like Vudu, Google Play movies, and others that may or may not come with your new TV. That’s especially true now that Google and Amazon’s long-raging feud is over , meaning Chromecast now supports Amazon Prime Video. And as 4K apps continue to grow in number, the Ultra can grow with them.
The competition has improved over time, and in 2019, we don’t think this device is as useful as Roku ’s Streaming Stick+ , or even the Premiere+, but it is more mobile than the latter. And even two-plus years on, it’s the best way to go if you love Chromecast streaming and also want a device that can grow with the latest resolution technology and services.
Interface/usability Google’s Home app is still limited in its usefulness, but it has improved in the years since the Ultra was first released. One of its best features is voice search, which searches across a few apps such as Netflix and YouTube with voice commands like “Show me 4K movies.” Search has improved since our initial review (asking for Rob Lowe TV shows now actually finds Parks and Recreation ), but it’s still not as intuitive or useful as Roku’s cross-platform search. Perhaps the app’s best attribute is (no surprise) finding good 4K videos on YouTube.
Where Chromecast’s “cast” system really comes in handy is allowing you to easily transition from an app on a mobile device to your TV with the simple tap of the cast icon. Nothing’s changed there, so if this is how you like to get your streaming kicks, and you want to add more 4K content into the mix, the Ultra may be right up your alley.
Performance Once we connected to Ethernet (again, this requirement will vary depending on your router), the Chromecast Ultra showed its mettle, loading 4K content in a matter of seconds, and adjusting to full resolution just as quickly. We enjoyed diving through all the 4K content we could handle on Netflix, including Marco Polo , which is still a great example of narrative-driven 4K content.
We also spent some quality time on YouTube, though it takes a bit more digging to find quality videos there. The best examples came through in brilliant resolution with little aliasing. We did experience some stuttering with faster-moving content and quick pans in some videos, but we had similar issues via our test TV’s native YouTube app, so it’s hard to blame the Ultra there. More to the point, searching for HDR videos unearthed a treasure trove of glistening HDR content basked in bright, vivid colors.
Our Take Google’s Chromecast Ultra is a slick and simple way to serve up 4K Ultra HD content. The Ultra will likely be most beneficial to users with older or cheaper 4K TVs that don’t include many streaming apps, especially those without Google’s growing suite of content, including Google Play movies. Though it’s more expensive than the HD Chromecast, the Ultra’s inclusion of 4K support, along with HDR10 and Dolby Vision , should allow it to continue to increase its value as 4K streaming expands.
How long will it last? With dual-band Wi-Fi, Ethernet connection, and all the latest 4K and HDR formats on board, the Ultra is still relevant in 2019, and it remains ready to grow with you and your choice of higher-quality 4K Ultra HD TVs for the foreseeable future.
What are the alternatives? The native apps loaded right into your 4K Ultra HD TV may be the Chromecast Ultra’s biggest competition for many, but there are also multiple third-party streaming devices. The best alternatives include the aforementioned Roku Streaming Stick+ and Premiere+, and the $100 Roku Ultra, which adds features like an Optical digital audio output for outboard audio connection and a remote control with a finder function.
Roku devices feature a more traditional interface and better cross-platform search than the Ultra, though their HDR capability is limited to HDR10. The Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K is also a solid option, offering 4K resolution and both HDR10 and Dolby Vision support.
Should you buy it? If you’re looking for an affordable streaming add-on to your 4K Ultra HD TV — and you love Google’s casting style — the Ultra is still a good choice. While it’s definitely taking some time for more 4K streaming apps to come out of the woodwork, the Ultra’s value should continue to rise.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Android Entertainment Google Google Chrome Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Audio / Video If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That's why we've listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don't have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there's something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we've picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV -- $298, was $348 The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that's ideal if you're on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There's also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
Audio / Video Checking out all the TV deals but know your heart is set on a 75-inch model? We've narrowed things down here to all the best 75-inch TV deals going on at the moment. Encompassing everything from regular 4K TVs to the latest in 8K and Mini-LED technology, there's something for every budget and need here. Keep reading while we take you through the best options currently available.
Onn. 75-inch 4K TV -- $498 The Onn. 75-inch 4K TV isn't technically on sale but it's an amazing price for a 75-inch 4K TV. Its huge 75-inch screen is teamed up with useful features like three HDMI ports. It also has Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily find movies and TV episodes across thousands of free or paid channels. There's also the Roku mobile app which means that you can use voice commands to find what you want to watch rather than needing to use the remote. It's straightforward enough and ideal for those on a budget.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
