Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Nuvyyo Tablo Dual HDMI OTA DVR review: Simple and direct By Ted Kritsonis Close $150.00 HDMI for TV connection New remote control Easy setup Simple interface Local streaming to TVs and boxes No remote access No streaming to mobile apps and browsers No internal storage For Nuvyyo, its Tablo devices have always represented an alternative to expensive cable packages, and the concept has always been an easy sell. Pull in free over-the-air TV channels and either watch them live or record them to watch later. Just stream them to compatible devices, and you’ve got plenty of content that doesn’t come with a fat monthly bill.
Out of the box Setting up Support and features Performance Warranty information Our take The new Tablo Dual HDMI OTA DVR sticks to the plan, yet deviates in execution, primarily by restricting where you can actually put it. Unlike other Tablo units, this box must be plugged into a TV. Everyone can appreciate a direct approach, but is this the right one for your cable TV freedom? Tablo’s latest over-the-air DVR does ATSC 3.0 — with a catch Out of the box There’s not a whole lot to stare at when unboxing the Tablo Dual HDMI OTA DVR. What does stand out is the new remote control — a first for Nuvyyo. Beyond that, there’s the set-top box along with a power adapter, HDMI cable, Ethernet cable , and quick-start guide.
Ted Kritsonis Setting up The size and weight of the Tablo Dual HDMI are similar to Nuvyyo’s other products, but there are two key functional differences we’ll get to later. There’s an IR receiver in the front and an HDMI port in the back. For anyone familiar with Nuvyyo’s products, setting up the Tablo Dual HDMI is not all that different. Once you’ve made all the connections in the back, you just need to go to the corresponding HDMI input on your TV and follow the prompts, as opposed to accessing an app on a mobile device.
You do still need to connect the Dual HDMI to your home internet connection via Ethernet or Wi-Fi, which then enables the latest firmware to download and install.
Once that’s done, just scan for channels and let it populate the main screen with whatever shows the TV Guide shows are scheduled to air. Since the unit itself has no onboard storage, it needs an external drive to store all recorded shows. Any drive will do, except Tablo formats it to work with the box, thereby erasing anything on it entirely. Just don’t use USB sticks, as those aren’t officially supported.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Those details aren’t new, except we did notice a couple of other nuances that are pretty important when looking at a potential setup. For starters, the direct HDMI connection implies that your TV is already close to the most optimal location for the antenna to pull in channels. We already had an antenna connected to the TV, so removing it and hooking it up to the Dual HDMI was easy.
That led us to notice something else. Assuming the antenna has a signal booster powered through USB, you may run into an issue where there’s not enough slack. For instance, the USB port on the Dual HDMI is purely for external storage and is not a power source, so we had to use the one on the TV itself. The cable for our Mohu antenna forks into the coaxial and USB extensions, but each of them has to be plugged into separate devices — coaxial into the Tablo unit, USB into the TV. For a wall-mounted TV, this made for an awkward setup because of how short the cable was. We tried using a USB extender cable to make up the difference, only to then lose the booster’s power.
Ted Kritsonis There’s another potential issue: If you have something like a Chromecast, Roku , or Fire Stick already occupying the TV’s USB port for power, you would need to get a hub to split it and accommodate the antenna’s booster. If your antenna has no booster or plugs into a power outlet, then you’re good. But if it does, this kind of connectivity traffic jam may be something you need to work around.
Support and features Despite the connectivity differences, Nuvyyo’s support is very much intact, save for one major omission. The apps for Apple TV, Fire TV, Android TV , Roku, Chromecast, and Nvidia Shield are still there. The interface and layout have changed over time, but we found navigation is pretty much the same.
The main initial difference was running through the interface on the TV with a dedicated remote. It’s not overly fancy but does the job, allowing you to play/pause recorded shows, mute or control volume, and even flick channels up and down. For anyone used to watching TV with a clicker, this will feel pretty familiar.
There’s no remote access of any kind.
Now, given this is something of a new avenue for Nuvyyo, there are sacrifices along the way, like the inability to stream to Nuvyyo’s mobile or web apps. While it does work with the TV and streaming device apps we mentioned earlier, we sorely missed the ability to stream to mobile devices. There’s also no remote access of any kind. You can’t stream anything you’ve recorded while away from home, and the reason why is because this is considered a “TV-connected Tablo DVR” that isn’t compatible with Tablo Connect, the remote access feature.
Ted Kritsonis This all relegates streaming to the home, which Nuvyyo says is the intention behind the Dual HDMI. However, its direct TV connection actually restricted some of the openness of the platform.
This leads us into the subscriptions involved here. Nuvyyo offers 30-day trials for both its TV Guide and Tablo Premium services, and does treat them separately once you have to start paying for them. The TV Guide portion starts at $5 per month, $50 per year, or $150 for life, and gives you artwork, metadata, show filtering, a more varied menu, and 14 days’ worth of guide data. With it, you can see movies, shows and sports laid out separately for smoother searching. Without it, everything is jumbled together, and you can only see 24 hours’ worth of guide data.
Premium refers to the Automatic Commercial Skip feature for recorded shows. As its title suggests, the Tablo Dual HDMI cuts out all the ads during a recorded broadcast, leaving you with a commercial-free viewing experience akin to any other paid streaming app. For that, you’re looking at another $2 per month or $20 per year.
Performance The devil is in the details, as we’ve pointed out, but as far as actually watching and recording shows on the Dual HDMI, we have little to complain about. With dual ATSC tuners, we could watch one show while recording another, watch two shows on two devices, or record two at one time. That’s been a staple feature on Tablo devices for years, and there are quad-tuner models capable of doing it with four programs simultaneously as well.
Of the two subscriptions, the TV Guide is more impactful. It does make a huge difference to see two weeks’ worth of guide data, letting you set up recordings for shows or movies well in advance. The cover art also adds a typical streaming media platform look to the layout, making navigation easier. Nuvyyo almost shoehorns you into submission by how barren the software looks when the informational elements are reduced to a pittance without a subscription. You can still watch and record shows that way, it’s just a lot less fun.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Skipping commercials is great, too, but at least you have recourse if you’re patient enough. Say you’ve opted not to subscribe to that feature and a recorded show has all the ads in it: You can use the remote to manually fast-forward through ads if you’re so inclined. Cumulatively, the ads do pile up on your hard drive (consider there’s about 12 to 16 minutes of them for an hourlong drama or reality show), but we figure you might want to hold off on spending the extra money if you can deal with the noise.
Video quality is good, though limited to 1080p. You also get passthrough for 5.1 surround sound, but we didn’t see Dolby Atmos included. Still, the encoding was seamless, and we ran into no problems watching on a TV with a Sonos surround setup.
The irony of this device is that it maintains plenty of familiarity for past Tablo owners, albeit without the mobile and remote streaming features that we argue sets the others apart. Forget cozying up in bed with a tablet to catch up on a show. Away from home, this unit is essentially out of reach, so it became clear to us early on that it’s aimed at users who are more comfortable parked at home on the couch (not that that’s been a problem lately) and consume their shows within those walls.
Warranty information Nuvyyo offers a full one-year manufacturer’s warranty for repair or replacement of the Tablo Dual HDMI OTA DVR. Buy it directly from Nuvyyo’s website, and you have 30 days to return it after purchase, though you are on the hook for shipping costs. Buy it through a retailer, and their return policy takes precedence.
Our take At $150, the Tablo Dual HDMI is on par with Nuvyyo’s other devices, but it’s not the upfront price that matters, it’s the ancillary features dictating what the experience will be like. It’s very clear who this unit was made for, as well as what kind of setup is required. The company finally addressed a lack of direct-to-TV connectivity, yet pulled back some other flagship features to make it happen.
Is there a better alternative? For streaming, absolutely. The Tablo Dual 128GB lets you place it wherever the signal is optimal, and includes some good internal storage to start with. It’s also the same price, or sometimes cheaper, than the Dual HDMI. If you want to go with four tuners and rack up on storage, the Tablo Quad 1TB Over-the-Air unit is $240, and also doesn’t connect directly to the TV. Both of those give you mobile streaming and remote access.
There are other excellent OTA receivers worth looking at, starting with the TiVo Edge for Antenna for direct TV connections with a remote, or the SiliconDust HDHomeRun Connect 4K for preparing for ATSC 3.0 OTA broadcasts. The latter of the two is more technical in setup, and may not be for you if you want to keep things simple.
How long will it last? So long as networks keep broadcasting over-the-air channels, there’s nothing to stop the Tablo Dual HDMI from doing its thing. Since there’s no internal storage, you may need to replace or overwrite your connected drive, but that’s just basic maintenance. Nuvyyo is on firm footing, and does offer solid support, so at least you can sort out any problems fairly quickly.
Moving forward, the box doesn’t support ATSC 3.0, meaning if you’re looking for 4K broadcasts at some point, this one won’t get them once they become more widely available. You can check out our ATSC 3.0 explainer to get more information on rollout.
Should you buy it? Yes, but only if you don’t mind that mobile streaming and remote access aren’t available. If you don’t care about streaming to anything other than your TV, and want a user-friendly DVR, the Tablo Dual HDMI is good at that. If it is of more importance, remote or otherwise, consider one of the other Tablo models instead.
Editors' Recommendations Hulu With Live TV adds unlimited DVR starting April 13 SiliconDust’s HDHomeRun swings and misses, abandons live TV streaming service Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Virtual Reality Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
