Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: What is Roku? Best Roku TVs How to Pair a Roku Remote The Roku Channel How to Use AirPlay on Roku Best Roku Devices Star Button on Roku Remote Home Audio / Video Reviews Roku Express (2019) review: This $30 streamer is all you need By Simon Cohen Close $29.99 Price Performance Fantastic Search Tiny size No voice remote No Ethernet There’s no question that if you want the very best movie, TV, and sports streaming experience, you need a media streamer that can handle Ultra HD 4K , HDR (preferably with Dolby Vision too), and Dolby Atmos.
 Not everyone needs such an elaborately equipped device or has the budget to pay for one, however, which is where Roku’s newly-refreshed Express comes in. At just $30, it’s the least expensive Roku device and one of the cheapest media streamers, period. But is it $30 well spent? (What’s a Roku, you ask? Here’s everything you need to know.
) So small Simple setup No frills, but lots of extras Serious search Surprisingly fast Our Take So small When Roku introduced the first-generation Express , it marked a significant change to the company’s designs. For the first time, a Roku didn’t look like a rounded-square set-top-box or a stick. The idea was to reduce a Roku to just its bare essentials, helping it to disappear almost entirely without taking the additional step of placing it behind a TV. Doing so would require a more expensive RF remote, which would interfere with the second goal of keeping the price as low as possible.
What is Roku? The streaming platform explained What is Kodi, and is it legal? Everything you need to know The best Roku devices for every home and every budget The curvy design not only makes it look smaller, but it also helps the Express blend a bit better into your TV’s base.
The result was a small, nondescript box that could be affixed to the bottom of a TV with an adhesive strip if you so desired. With only an HDMI port and MicroUSB input for powering the streamer, it was minimalist to the core.
The new Roku Express takes this approach further. It’s 10% smaller than the previous version, according to Roku, and it’s now got a pleasingly rounded shape. This curvy design not only makes it look smaller, but it also helps the tiny streamer blend in with the base of your TV, if that’s where you choose to place it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In fact, the Roku Express is now so small and light that if you don’t use the included adhesive strip to secure it to your TV or another surface, the weight and resistance of the HDMI and power cables make it tricky to keep the streamer put. With an RF remote, this would be a aesthetic concern, but the Express’ IR remote needs a clean line-of-sight back to the streamer, so funky angles are not a good idea.
Of course, you could just go ahead and use the adhesive strip. That’s what it’s there for. But it’s a one-time use strip, which means that if you want to take the Express with you — say to a hotel — you’ll have to remove it and buy a new one from Roku.
Simple setup Included in the box are an HDMI cable, a MicroUSB cable, a USB power adapter, and the Roku remote.
You can power the Express using the included adapter, or for an even simpler setup, you can use an available USB port on your TV. Thanks to improvements in the latest Roku OS 9.2, the actual on-screen setup takes only a few minutes — even less if you already have a Roku account.
I’m a big fan of the introductory video that plays at the end of the process. In less than a minute you get a full tour of the Express’ key features so you’re ready to roll, no manual needed. If you need a refresher on specific features, the new Tips & Tricks channel has you covered with many more instructional videos.
No frills, but lots of extras Unlike some of Roku’s other streamers, the included remote is very basic. There’s no voice control, no headphone jack, no volume control, and no customizable buttons. These fancy extras — all present on the $100 Roku Ultra — would simply add cost, so they’re out.
It’s compatible with Alexa and Google Assistant-powered devices, which opens up a whole world of voice-based options.
This is not to say you can’t spruce up the Roku Express’ bare-bones experience. Using the free Roku app for iOS and Android, you can add private listening via your phone’s headphone jack, use the mic for voice searches, and it also acts as a secondary remote. You can even use it to cast content like music, photos, and videos from your phone to your TV.
Plus, the Express is compatible with Alexa and Google Assistant-powered devices, which opens up a whole world of voice-based options if you’re part of one of those ecosystems.
It’s a great feature-set for a $30 device.
Serious search While it’s true that you do get some extra features by spending more on a box like the Roku Ultra, most of the best parts of the Roku experience are baked into Roku’s software. So whether you spend $30 or $100, you get to use the mic (on the app) to ask, “Who said, ‘I’ll be back’?” and see a list of matching media titles. Starting with The Terminator , naturally.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s also the new Roku Zones, which give you a themed spotlight for categories like Action, Drama, Kids & Family, Mysteries, and many more. They appear when you do a search (if they’re a match for your query) or you can find them all by searching for “Zones.” Finding free content to watch on Roku used to be a chore, requiring you to know which channels had free content, or hoping that a movie or show you searched for had a free viewing option. Now, with the addition of the Featured Free menu option, you can pull up a list of available free content sorted by genre. Selecting a title will give you an info page along with the ability to jump into the appropriate channel and start watching. If you don’t already have that channel, you’ll be prompted to add it. It’s a small addition, but it makes finding something to watch totally effortless.
Surprisingly fast The Express is only a $30 streamer, so I didn’t have high expectations for the tiny box’s performance. But it surprised me. While not as lightning-quick as the Ultra, the Express never leaves you hanging. Screen changes, channel launches, and new streams all appear rapidly. If you’ve been using an older Roku, like a first-gen Streaming Stick or perhaps a Roku 3, you’ll see an immediate difference.
Our Take The new Roku Express might lack 4K, HDR, Dolby Atmos and some of the neat features you’ll find on Roku’s other streamers, but for the rock-bottom price of $30, we don’t think you’ll mind at all. It’s got everything you need to enjoy all of the best streaming entertainment that’s out there, in a tiny little box that all but disappears.
With speedy performance and a surprising amount of extra features enabled by the free Roku app, we’d say the Roku Express is worth every penny.
Is there a better alternative? Not for the price. At $30, the Roku Express is easily the least expensive streamer you can buy. If you wanted to add voice and volume remote capabilities, you could spend $10 more for an Amazon Fire TV Stick , or $20 more for the Roku Streaming Stick.
Still not sure what to buy? Check out our round-up of our favorite streaming devices.
How long will it last? Roku devices are very well built and the new Express appears to be no exception. With replaceable batteries in the remote, there’s not a whole lot that can go wrong. And with regular software updates from Roku, you may very well decide to upgrade to a fancier device long before the Express stops working.
Should you buy it? Absolutely. If you don’t need 4K resolution or HDR, the Roku Express is a bargain for what it offers.
Editors' Recommendations What is a network music streamer and why do you need one? Denon updates its network streamer with HDMI and big price bump Roku rolls out a cheaper subwoofer and updated low-end streaming box Roku overheating? Here’s what you can do You can now watch Peacock on all Fire TV devices, ahead of Tokyo Games Cord Cutting 101 Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Roku TV Audio / Video In May, eagle-eyed observers noticed that Walmart had added a $30, onn.-branded 4K Android TV-based streaming media device to its website, but at the time, there was no way to add it to your cart. Today, Walmart appears to be ready to sell these ultra-affordable streamers.
A few days after the 4K streaming device was spotted, another onn. streamer was discovered on Walmart: An Android TV streaming stick for $25. Spotted by 9to5google.com, the device is called the "onn. FHD Streaming Stick." However, as of June 10, the streaming stick is still listed as out of stock.
Audio / Video In late April, Roku made the decision to pull the YouTube TV app from its channel store, effectively denying it to any Roku user who wants to add it to their streaming device. It also prevented any Roku users from creating a new subscription to the Google-owned live TV streaming service.
It was the opening salvo in a very public contractual dispute between Roku and Google. On May 7, in an apparent attempt to limit further damage that might be caused if Roku elects to remove the YouTube TV app entirely, Google began updating its regular YouTube app on Roku with the ability to access YouTube TV content if you're a YouTube TV subscriber.
Audio / Video Today, Roku took the wraps off some new hardware, including a more affordable 4K streaming media device, an updated soundbar, and an upgraded remote control that gives you hands-free voice commands.
Roku has also discontinued its Premier line of players, leaving the company with a more streamlined offering of four dedicated player devices and two soundbars with built-in Roku OS streaming capabilities.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
