Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: What is Roku? Best Roku TVs How to Pair a Roku Remote The Roku Channel How to Use AirPlay on Roku Best Roku Devices Star Button on Roku Remote Home Audio / Video Reviews Roku Express review Roku Express streaming device promises a huge power boost, but does it deliver? By Nick Hastings Close $29.99 Easy to set up and use Excellent companion/smartphone app Roku OS rocks Comprehensive search function Huge channel library No Ethernet port; restricted to Wi-Fi Some input lag No 4K/HDR support Roku revamped its lineup of streaming devices in early October 2017, announcing updates to the Express, Streaming Stick, and Ultra, and introducing the new Streaming Stick+. It was a predictable move, given recent updates rolled out by Amazon (the Fire TV ) and Apple (the Apple TV 4K ) which greatly improved upon those devices’ capabilities — thus raising the bar in streaming land.
If you come at the king, though, you best not miss. Earlier this year, we awarded the Roku Express four stars out of five, recommending it as a killer entry-level streaming option. Does the updated model maintain its spot in the current landscape? The short answer is yes. Packing Roku ’s excellent ecosystem, and claimed improvements like five times the computing power of its predecessor, the Roku Express is still a killer deal. As we explain in further detail for this Roku Express review, so long as you don’t covet 4K and HDR capabilities, you’ll be hard-pressed to find better value for $30.
Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted Roku adds NFL Zone to its software, and not a moment too soon The best Roku TVs of 2023: which should you buy? Out of the box Roku didn’t make any changes to the packaging for the Roku Express or included accessories. Upon removing the Express from its box, you might be surprised by its size; the whole device is about as long as an index finger and twice as thick. In fact, the remote is bigger than the streaming device itself. The Express is sheathed handsomely in matte black.
The remote control here is mostly identical to the remote you’ll find in any Roku box, with dedicated buttons for Netflix, Amazon Video, Sling TV , and Hulu (the dedicated buttons often change throughout the year) — though there’s no dedicated headphone jack or TV control buttons. The remote’s layout, with “Home” and “Back” buttons up top, is par for the course.
The streaming device can draw power from an included adapter or from a television’s USB port. Smartly, there’s also an adhesive strip so you can stick it to your TV or entertainment center. (Some might gripe about aesthetics here, but if you’re so worried about that, buy a better streaming device.) This is particularly useful, given that the default HDMI cable is just two feet long. If you want the Express+, which includes a 3.5mm-to-RCA connector for use with older televisions, it’ll cost an extra $10.
Specs and features On the surface, the Express can do everything that other streaming devices do. Dig in a little bit, however, and you’ll see that it’s just $30 for a reason.
The 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi adapter for the Express can only connect to networks up to 2.4GHz, and without an Ethernet port, it’s a step slower than its more expensive siblings. If your TV is adjacent to your router, you should be fine, but depending on your wireless router’s strength, you could be in for some extended load times and buffering.
The Roku Express works great — it’s reliable and packs a ton of features.
The Express doesn’t support 4K or HDR playback – you’re limited to 1080p at best. There’s no SD card slot, either, and though the processor might be “five times more powerful” than the previous iteration, that’s still orders of magnitude less effective than whatever’s powering Roku ’s more pricey options.
As is tradition, much of the value of the Express lies in the fantastic Roku ecosystem. With close to 4,000 apps — though Roku prefers to call them “Channels” — there’s no real competition. The awesome cross-channel search is here, too, so typing in “Rick and Morty” will return results (by season) for any app that you have downloaded, along with relevant pricing (including free). It’s a feature that you can’t truly appreciate until you’ve used it.
Roku’s user interface is just plain simple and effective. Apps — or, channels — are arranged as big squares that can be organized in any order you see fit. If you watch Netflix the most, keep it up top. If you want your news channels separated from movies and TV, simply move the apps into groups within your lineup. This is the closest one can get to having apps look more like channels in a TV guide.
Although the remote doesn’t have a microphone, you can sync up to Roku’s mobile app to use voice-controlled search, as well as to stream analog audio via connected headphones.
 You can download or delete channels directly from your phone as well, and it acts as a surrogate remote should the need arise.
Performance As we mentioned above, the Express isn’t packing much power under the hood – at least, not in comparison to the other Roku streamers. The new version of the Express has just a bit of input lag — most noticeable when using the analog search keyboard — though it’s noticeably more snappy than the one we originally reviewed.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends Previously, we complained about the Netflix app; navigation was slow going, with button presses frustratingly stacking up and then registering all at once, often sending us to content we weren’t trying to browse. This time around, it’s a lot better — not perfect, but better. Netflix content loads quickly – less than five seconds, in most cases – and we weren’t inundated with buffering, even when skipping around a lot. Most other channels performed a bit more smoothly, which could be a result of less resource-intensive menus.
The streaming device itself boots up in a matter of seconds, and, after a minute or two of initial updating, loads most channels in less than five seconds. Generally speaking, we found that the smartphone app is a lot more useful than the physical remote, as you can instantly launch any channel – if it’s in your library – and use the keyboard function, which is a lot easier than “typing” with a remote control. The remote is nice to have for those without smartphones, but ultimately it’s pretty superfluous.
Overall, the Roku Express works great. It’s not the fastest streamer, but it’s reliable and packs a ton of great features.
Nothing can beat Roku ’s platform.
If you’re short on bucks but still looking for some bang, the Express is the way to go. Compact, clever, and convenient, the streaming device offers access to Roku’s class-leading platform at minimal cost. It’s easy to set up and easy to use, with an awesome search function and a gargantuan selection of channels.
If you want to stream content in 4K and HDR , or if you’re impatient, this isn’t the device for you. In an oversaturated market, the Express doesn’t quite reach “Editor’s Choice” level, but we still recommend it to anyone looking for an affordable streaming device.
Our Take Pound for pound, dollar for dollar, there’s no better streaming device than the Roku Express. It may not quite fulfill the potential for quintupled performance, but the Express holds significant value by virtue of the excellent Roku ecosystem.
Is there a better alternative? At the price? No. The Google Chromecast and Amazon Fire TV Stick are great, and they’re actually better, faster devices under the hood, but Roku’s awesome operating system and massive catalog of channels gives the Express a leg up on the competition.
How long will it last? The streaming device itself shouldn’t encounter much wear and tear while affixed to your entertainment center or TV. As 4K and HDR content becomes more common, the value of the Express will diminish slightly, but the Roku universe isn’t going to stop growing anytime soon.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Express and Express+ are absolutely worth the money.
Editors' Recommendations YouTube’s enhanced 1080p video now available on more devices Best streaming devices for 2023: Apple TV, Roku, and more Google TV vs. Roku TV: which is the better streaming OS? What is Roku? The streaming platform explained The Roku Channel is now available as a Google TV app Entertainment Cord Cutting 101 Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Roku Streaming Services TV Audio / Video One of the benefits of being Digital Trends is that we get to test a lot of things that simply aren’t easily available or replaceable should they not work out for the average person. That’s why we put so much work into testing TVs, for one example. Or full soundbar setups, for another.
Other times it’s because we’re able to take products for a test drive before they go on sale. Like video games, or computers and phones. That’s good because it helps you make a relatively expensive and important purchase decision.
Audio / Video Formula E is coming to The Roku Channel in 2024. Roku handout photo The next big event horizon for streaming is, of course, live sports. That's not particularly new, but all of the players are finally realizing just how important live sports are (and have been) for bringing in — and keeping — subscribers. To wit: Roku is now getting into the game with its first live sports deal for Formula E.
Audio / Video When you talk about the best streaming services, you typically talk about video-on-demand (VOD) services like Netflix. Or Disney+. Or Amazon Prime Video. Or Hulu. And for good reason — they have a ton of paying subscribers. Netflix alone is closing in on a quarter-billion. Disney+ is about halfway there.
And while the numbers drop off a good bit from there, another flavor of streaming should constitute a good bit of the discussion. FAST services — that's the industry acronym for free advertising-based streaming television — continue to grow both in numbers and in popularity. Think of FAST like the streaming version of broadcast TV, or your cable box. Shows are on at the same time for everyone, and everyone is watching the same thing, with ads. Only unlike YouTube TV or Hulu With Live TV, you don't have to pay anything upfront. It's all supported by advertising — you just don't get the "good" channels like you will on the paid services.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
