Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: What is Roku? Best Roku TVs How to Pair a Roku Remote The Roku Channel How to Use AirPlay on Roku Best Roku Devices Star Button on Roku Remote Home Audio / Video Reviews Roku Ultra (2019) review: Fast, flexible, fun The new Roku Ultra takes what we love about Roku and makes it better and faster By Simon Cohen Close $100.00 Fast performance Easily customizable buttons Helpful content Zones Low price No Dolby Vision HDR Spotty Dolby Atmos support Roku’s Ultra streaming media player is the company’s flagship. It’s been updated for 2019 with new software, faster performance, and the ability to customize the remote control. These changes make it the best Roku yet. (What’s a Roku, you ask? Here’s everything you need to know.
) There’s still room for improvement, but the Ultra is a top-notch choice for media streaming.
One (and) two small changes No waiting Super software Still missing in action Our Take One (and) two small changes On the outside, the new Roku Ultra is virtually identical to its predecessor. The familiar rounded-square shape continues, as does the USB port for personal media and the microSD card slot for expanded channel storage. Sitting atop the player is the handy remote-finder button, something we think more streaming media players should offer.
The best Roku devices for every home and every budget You can now buy Walmart’s crazy-cheap 4K Android TV streamer Wonder Woman 1984 will mark HBO Max’s 4K HDR debut Unlike programmable macro buttons on other remote controls, the Roku’s buttons are a cinch to customize Speaking of the remote, this is where you’ll find the one visible change for 2019. Along with the usual Roku layout of buttons — still one of the best in the business — you’ll find two new buttons, simply labeled 1 and 2. These are the new customizable shortcut buttons.
Unlike programmable macro buttons on other remote controls, the Roku’s buttons are a cinch to customize. Simply press the mic button to speak a voice command, then press and hold either the 1 or 2 button until you hear a confirmation beep. Your voice command has been memorized and can be recalled with just a press.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I love how simple it is, but the lack of a visible indication of what the new shortcut buttons do makes it a lot less friendly for anyone who wasn’t in the room when you programmed them. Don’t be surprised if someone else in the family decides your obsession with Martin Scorcese movies doesn’t deserve the shortcut button treatment.
The Roku Ultra comes with a pair of JBL-branded wired earbuds for use with the Roku remote’s built-in headphone jack, or on your mobile device using the free Roku app. Sound quality is on par with Apple AirPods , which isn’t great, but is adequate for most TV shows and movies. Private listening is a genius feature, and I’m sure it has saved more than one relationship since it debuted.
No waiting I’ve been using Roku devices for several generations. While I’ve never thought of them as particularly slow, the new Roku Ultra is much faster than previous Rokus. The initial setup is fast and efficient, especially if you already have a Roku account. If you don’t, it’s easy to create one.
Speed improvements can be felt throughout … channels launch almost instantly, search results appear in a flash My favorite part, however, is the end. The Ultra screens a welcome video that takes you through all of the device’s key features in less than a minute. It’s fun, and means you can ignore the quick setup guide. Just like the remote finder feature, all streaming video gadgets should have a similar welcome video. It’s a no-brainer. The new Tips & Tricks channel contains many more just like it, each dedicated to a specific Roku feature.
The performance boost can be felt throughout the interface. Channels launch instantly, search results appear in a flash, and when the Featured Free section finds a movie in an app you don’t yet have loaded, seconds later, it’s there and you’re streaming.
Some of this can be attributed to the new Roku OS 9.2 , which is optimized for speed, but the new Roku Ultra’s faster processor deserves plenty of credit.
Super software Roku OS 9.2 brings with it great enhancements, like the 4K Spotlight channel, which filters movies by whether they’re available in Ultra HD resolution. There’s also a new Zones feature which helps you get more out of searching for content. Start typing your search (or use your voice) and you’ll see relevant Zones appear in the results. Depending on what you’re looking for, these could include topics like superheroes, mysteries, thrillers, or even movie-specific suggestions, like Harry Potter.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Zones behave like sub-categories, giving you a chance to see more theme-related content. These will be familiar if you’ve ever used Netflix. They’re helpful as a way to browse content, but for some reason Roku doesn’t promote them from the main navigation menu. The only way to find them is to search for “zones.” It feels like a missed opportunity.
You can now use your voice to do more things on Roku, like set sleep timers, search for personal media content, and get Roku to find a movie for you based on a famous line of dialog. It’s a bit silly to ask, “Who said ‘I’ll be back’?” but given that the Roku database has thousands of such one-liners, you’ll be tempted to see what comes up.
Still missing in action As Roku’s top-of-the-line media streamer, you would expect the Roku Ultra to offer nothing less than the best streaming experience. It does — for the most part. It’s still missing support for Dolby Vision, and while that wasn’t a big deal in 2017 when the Ultra had its last major update, it’s more concerning today.
Without getting into the HDR weeds (we have a full Dolby Vision explainer if you want to go deep), there’s two basic kinds of HDR : Static and Dynamic. Dynamic HDR is better, and Dolby Vision is currently the most popular dynamic HDR format. Netflix uses it, Amazon Prime Video uses it, and when Apple TV+ and Disney+ launch, they will use it too. Many popular brands of Ultra HD 4K TVs are Dolby Vision compatible, and so are many of Roku’s streaming device competitors. Even some Roku TVs support Dolby Vision. Why doesn’t Roku’s best player support it? Image used with permission by copyright holder Roku hasn’t said, so I’ll hazard a guess: Cost. Dolby Labs charges companies like Roku to include Dolby Vision support via licensing fees and hardware requirements. Perhaps Roku isn’t interested in raising the price of the $100 Ultra to cover the extra fees. Whatever the case is, there’s no escaping the fact that you can enjoy Dolby Vision (and HDR10+) on a $50 Amazon Fire TV Streaming Stick 4K , or a $70 Chromecast Ultra.
 These devices lack many of the Roku Ultra’s features, but they’ll win in image quality when connected to an HDR television.
The Ultra also suffers spotty availability of Dolby Atmos.
 The Ultra can pass-through Dolby Atmos when it receives it, but not every channel provides Atmos in the first place.
Netflix , for instance, which delivers Dolby Atmos on select titles to the Apple TV 4K , does not provide it to the Ultra (or indeed, to any Roku device ). When we asked Roku’s representative to provide a list of channels that support Dolby Atmos on the Ultra, only Amazon Prime Video and Vudu were offered as examples.
Our Take The new Roku Ultra takes what we’ve always loved about Roku and makes it better and faster. Roku’s OS 9.2 software takes full advantage of the Ultra’s speed, offering up new ways to find the content you want — from what remains the largest selection of streaming sources of any platform. You may not remember what you programmed the customizable remote buttons to do, but changing their actions is as easy as talking. We wish the Ultra had Dolby Vision support and more ways to get Dolby Atmos content, but all things considered, it’s still $100 well spent.
Is there a better alternative? For the Ultra’s $100 price tag, there isn’t a media streamer out there that combines its impressive speed, selection of content, and universal search. But if you prioritize audio and video quality above all else, the Apple TV 4K provides Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos support on Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and others — for $80 more. If budget is your biggest concern, Roku’s own $60 Streaming Stick+ will give you a healthy number of the Ultra’s features at significant savings.
Still not sure what to buy? Check out our round-up of our favorite streaming devices.
How long will it last? The Roku Ultra hardware should last as long as you need it to, provided you don’t abuse the box or its remote control. We’re guessing you’ll be tempted to upgrade by new features and new hardware, long before the Ultra stops working.
Should you buy it? Yes. The new Roku Ultra delivers superb value in a media streamer.
Editors' Recommendations Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted Roku revamps its midrange lineup with the Streaming Stick 4K and 4K Plus Roku drops the price of 4K HDR streaming to $40 Roku reveals 2-in-1 Streambar, new Roku Ultra with Dolby Atmos/Vision support Hulu is finally offering 4K and 5.1 surround sound audio on Roku Cord Cutting 101 Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Roku TV Audio / Video Electronics manufacturers are beginning to see soundbars as the next category of device that should come with built-in smarts. The latest brand to pursue this strategy is Anker, which has just started taking pre-orders for its $230 Nebula Soundbar -- Fire TV Edition, a soundbar that delivers 100 watts of power while enabling any HDMI-equipped TV with Amazon's Fire TV streaming media software and its Alexa voice assistant.
On the video side of things, the Nebula Sounbdar impresses, with 4K resolution at up to 60 frames per second, and every major flavor of HDR including HDR10, HDR10+, and Dolby Vision. In fact, this may just be the first soundbar you can buy with Dolby Vision built-in. Around the back of the soundbar, you'll find a good array of connection ports including an auxiliary-in, USB, HDMI-ARC, and optical input.
Audio / Video Updated October 18, 2019: Added new pricing and features for Roku's Streaming Stick+.
Roku has updated two of its most popular streaming devices for 2019, including a refresh of its top-of-the-line Roku Ultra and, at the other end of the spectrum, its 1080P Roku Express. The company announced the new products in mid-September, along with an update to Roku OS version 9.2, which begins rolling out to users starting in October with some fun new features, including some brand-new ways to search for your favorite films. Here’s what you need to know.
Hardware updates Audio / Video Roku recently announced changes to its streaming player lineup, including a new version of the $100 Roku Ultra and the $30 Roku Express. But the company was apparently planning another change: Its popular Roku Streaming Stick+ just got a mute button on the remote and a $10 price drop. It's now just $50, bringing the 4K HDR streamer down to the same price as Amazon's Fire TV Stick 4K. The new model will be available starting October 20.
The Roku lineup now makes a bit more sense. Previously, the Streaming Stick+ and the Walmart-exclusive Streaming Stick+ HE were the same price, even though the HE offered a remote with a headphone jack for private listening and a set of earbuds. With the $10 price cut on the regular Streaming Stick+, people who don't need the private listening feature now have a more affordable option.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
