Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Audio / Video Reviews SlimPort Nano-Console review We can’t find one reason to recommend the maddening SlimPort Nano-Console By Simon Hill Close $59.00 Mirrors screen with low latency Bluetooth remote Very limited compatibility Aesthetically ugly Remote is fiddly Drops picture frequently The SlimPort Nano-Console enables you to mirror selected Android smartphones or tablets on your main TV. It’s being billed as a kind of set-top box and gaming console extension for mobile devices. It’s a smart idea, but the makers have taken their time putting it on sale, compatibility is limited, and the execution leaves a lot to be desired. With the wealth of smartphone-connected streaming solutions out there, this is a tough sell even for $50.
It’s kinda funny looking The SlimPort Nano-Console is a strange little device that hooks up to your TV via HDMI. It’s a white plastic cube with orange highlights, and a wider, thin plastic base with a small rim that’s designed to hold your smartphone or tablet in place.
Braun reinvents its classic speakers with Google Assistant to compete with Sonos You can plug it into a standard charger using a USB to MicroUSB cable, and there’s another MicroUSB cable permanently attached that’s supposed to be plugged into your smartphone or tablet, so it can charge while you’re using the Nano-Console.
It’s quite ugly, and the white and orange color scheme, which extends to the cabling, doesn’t exactly blend in with the average piano black TV or wooden TV stand. Thankfully, when the device is propped in front of it, the Nano-Console is hidden from view.
What does it do? The main idea is to throw whatever is on your device up onto the big screen in a stable way with low latency. It’s efficient enough to enable you to play fast-paced games, and you can stream movies from services like Netflix, or browse the Web.
To help you do that without having the Nano-Console on your lap, there’s a detachable Bluetooth remote, which is an orange square a couple of inches across that’s comfortable to hold and works a lot like a laptop touch pad. The three buttons at the bottom edge mirror your standard Android controls for easy navigation. It takes a little getting used to, but with some practice you can swipe through screens or photo slideshows, and the home button is a handy shortcut.
The trouble is that Android is a touch interface. For a lot of games and apps, having a cursor on screen and trying to control it with a disembodied laptop trackpad is like some kind of strange torture. It’s maddening for games, but even general navigation can be frustrating. If you really want to use the Nano-Console for gaming you’ll pair a Bluetooth gamepad instead, but you’ll have to buy it separately.
Since this cube is going to sit in front of your TV anyway, SlimPort decided to add an extra HDMI port, so you can hook up your laptop or whatever you want without having to find a port on the back of the TV.
Serious limitations There are some glaring problems with the Nano-Console that simply cannot be overlooked. Compatibility is a major issue. The SlimPort technology that the Nano-Console relies on is only present in a handful of Android devices. It works with a lot of LG phones, a couple of Blackberrys, and the old Nexus 7,5, and 4, but not much else. You can check out the full list here.
It’s clunky, it doesn’t work perfectly, and it stands out like a sore thumb. I can’t find a reason to recommend it.
I tested it with the Nexus 7 and it worked most of the time, but sometimes it would inexplicably drop the connection and my TV screen would go dark. I’d have to unplug the tablet and plug it back in again to get the connection back. On occasion the sound would continue to drop in and out, but the picture disappeared completely pretty consistently, which gets old really fast.
There’s another big problem here. SlimPort offers an HDMI adapter for $30 and it does everything that the Nano-Console does, it just lacks the Bluetooth remote, which, frankly, you can live without. I’ve been using it for a while and it works just fine, though it does also occasionally drop the connection for no obvious reason, so you have to plug it in again. It’s an unobtrusive cable with a Micro USB at one end and an HDMI port at the other. There’s also room to plug your existing charger in there, so your device can charge while it’s connected.
So, what does the Nano-Console actually offer over the basic SlimPort cable, or over a Chromecast, both of which are significantly cheaper? The answer is not a lot. If you want to browse online or stream content, then the Chromecast is a much better device that doesn’t require any plugging in.
Simon Hill/Digital Trends The latency issues for gaming with the original Chromecast aren’t likely to be such a big issue in the new model , but if that’s the problem you’re trying to solve, buy a SlimPort cable and a Bluetooth gamepad instead. The Nano-Console controller is not suitable for the vast majority of games anyway.
I found one use case that my existing setup (Chromecast or SlimPort cable) couldn’t cater for, and that was streaming a certain TV service through a location altering VPN , without having to get up to choose the next movie or episode. Other than that, the remote often proved to be more of a pain that it was worth.
Conclusion The ability to mirror your smartphone screen on your big TV is undeniably handy, but there are better ways of doing it than the SlimPort Nano-Console. Considering the new Chromecast costs $35 and can employ any Android smartphone as a game controller, the $50 SlimPort Nano-Console looks expensive, fiddly, and limited by comparison.
The DT Accessory Pack Up your game and the get the most out of your gear with the following extras, hand-picked by our editors: Moga Pro Power Bluetooth Gamepad ($16.65) You’ll need a proper gamepad if you want to play games from your Android device on the big screen.
SlimPort HDMI adapter ($30) This might be a better buy than the Nano-Console for many people.
The lack of latency issues with a wired connection is offset by the inconvenience of having to plug in, and the fact it intermittently drops the picture. There’s no way you can play games with the Bluetooth trackpad, so you’re going to have to buy a controller as well. It would make more sense to buy the $30 SlimPort cable instead.
The SlimPort Nano-Console is not a bad idea. Microsoft is betting big on the concept of your smartphone hooking up to a monitor with the new Lumias, but Windows 10 has Continuum to make the process smooth. In practice, using the Nano-Console feels awkward. It’s clunky, it doesn’t work perfectly, and it stands out like a sore thumb. I can’t find a reason to recommend it.
Highs Mirrors screen with low latency Bluetooth remote Lows Very limited compatibility Aesthetically ugly Remote is fiddly Drops picture frequently Editors' Recommendations Edifier MP230 Hands-on Review: The pint-sized, retro Bluetooth speaker brings a vintage vibe Android Mobile Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Streaming Services Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
