Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best 8K TVs for 2023: from Samsung, TCL, LG, and Sony By Michael Bizzaco , Caleb Denison and Simon Cohen Close When it comes to resolution, 8K picture technology is (slowly, but surely) what's coming next, with brands like Samsung, Sony, LG, TCL, and a host of others all offering 8K TV models that are engineered to take your breath away.
Delivering double the pixel count of 4K/UHD TVs, the best 8K TVs are also optimized to dish out incredible picture upscaling, as well as vibrant and colorful imagery, regardless of the source, and plenty of smart TV capabilities, too. And while TVs with 8K resolution collect a little less attention than today's leading 4K TV models , that doesn't mean they should be ignored. After all, hardware tends to drop before software, so we're hoping there'll be plenty of 8K content to enjoy over the next few years. Fingers crossed.
But if you're interested in buying an 8K TV today , and you're OK with paying a premium for it, what model should you go for? Right now, our best pick is the stunning Samsung QN900B , with its gorgeous QLED picture and upscaling capabilities. But as experts on all things AV, we've done the digging for more of the best 8K TVs on the market to help you decide.
Samsung 65-inch Samsung QN900B The best 8K TV overall Fantastic picture quality Four HDMI 2.1 inputs (8K/120Hz) Supports Dolby Atmos and Object Tracking Sound+ Fast and smooth Tizen interface Does a great job at upscaling 4K sources Not so great at upscaling 1080p sources No Dolby Vision support Expensive Some minor blooming Why you should buy it : You want more than just 8K resolution in your next big TV purchase. In fact, you're looking for as many cutting-edge picture features as you can get.
Who it's for : Dedicated TV watchers that care as much about future-proofing as they do an amazing picture.
Why we chose the Samsung QN900B : Samsung has been a leader in QLED technology for many years now, with the company's impressive Neo QLED displays taking home laurels for everything from brightness, colors, and contrast to picture upscaling. And while we think the Samsung QN90B is one of the best 4K QLEDs you can buy, we think the same when it comes to Samsung's QN900B, an 8K TV that utilizes all the same core picture tech, with a few extra tweaks to accommodate the higher pixel count.
Behind the scenes, Samsung's Quantum Matrix Technology Pro works in unison with the QN900B's mini-LED lighting to create one of the fastest and most accurate local dimming systems we've seen on a TV to date. In execution, this means intense contrast and lifelike colors with minimal light blooming. That's on top of Samsung's Neural Quantum Processor 8K which does a fantastic job at upscaling 4K sources to near-8K standards, and a pretty decent job at polishing up 1080p sources, too.
HDR compatibility is another area where the QN900B gets to shine. If you think that amazing colors and contrast is a big win for regular SDR sources, just wait until you watch something in HDR10 or HDR10+. And with the QN900B's four HDMI 2.1 inputs, all of which output 8K/120Hz, you can rest assured that whatever AV components you purchase over the next several years will all perform at their best.
Yes, the QN900B is one of the more expensive 8K TVs on the market, but if you're looking for a premium picture matched by premium features, Samsung's 8K champ is hard to pass up.
Samsung / .
65-inch Samsung QN800B The runner-up 8K TV Less expensive than the QN900B Four HDMI 2.1 inputs (8K/120Hz) Top-notch brightness and rich colors No Dolby Vision support Weaker version of Samsung's HDR Matrix tech Less powerful speaker system Slight halo effect Why you should buy it : You're a fan of Samsung's QLED technology and want to spend a little less than one would on the flagship QN900B.
Who it's for : Samsung devotees that are looking for an excellent 8K TV for a slightly more affordable price.
Why we chose the Samsung QN800B : It can be a little frustrating when a TV brand releases two different models that are nearly identical when it comes to picture features and overall performance, and in the case of Samsung's QN800B and QN900B, the similarities tend to outnumber the differences, but not entirely.
For starters, the QN800B is a lot less expensive than the QN900B — around $600 cheaper for the 65-inch model, with price drops on every available size (75- and 85-inch options are also available). The QN800B is also equipped with Samsung's incredible mini-LED lighting and the Quantum Matrix Technology Pro for lightning-fast local dimming, a feature you'll find on the QN900B.
In terms of what's different, design-wise, the QN800B ditches the near-bezel-less Infinity Screen of the flagship QN900B, resulting in a slightly bigger frame and chassis all-around. The QN800B also uses the slightly weaker Quantum HDR 32X specification, compared to the QN900B's Quantum HDR 48X for the 65-inch model, and 64X for both the 75- and 85-inch sizes. The QN800B also runs a slightly less powerful sound system than the QN900B (70 watts versus 90 watts), and cannot deliver the 4K/144Hz optimized gaming experience you'll get with the QN900B.
These aren't the biggest losses in the world, and fundamentally, the QN800B looks and feels like a top-dollar Samsung TV, complete with Tizen OS for all things streaming and voice assistant support for Alexa, Google Assistant, and Bixby.
Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Best Black Friday 8K TV deals: Save on LG, Sony, and Samsung Dan Baker/Digital Trends 65-inch TCL 6-Series The best 8K TV for the price Excellent picture quality Surprisingly good sound Improved Roku TV remote Easy setup Excellent for gaming Poor off-axis performance Why you should buy it : You won't find a mini-LED 8K TV at a better price in 2022.
Who it's for : Those who want all of the benefits of 8K resolution (and a lot of handy extras) at a (relatively) affordable price.
Why we chose the TCL 6-Series Mini-LED QLED 8K TV : It will be a few more years before 8K TVs become as affordable as 4K TVs, but in the meantime, TCL's 6-Series Mini-LED 8K QLED TVs are an amazing value. Available in 65- and 75-inch screen sizes, these Roku-powered TVs deliver everything we love about 8K resolution and then some.
It starts with the 8K panel —TCL's very first 8K panel — which makes images tack-sharp and incredibly detailed. It's bolstered by TCL's upscaling technology which does an admirable job of converting 4K material to 8K resolution. Full HD (1080p) content isn't quite as sharp, but that's to be expected — it's not easy to render an image with 16 times more resolution than it was shot at, without losing a little in the process.
But the big reason to invest in the TCL 6-Series is the LED backlighting. OLED TVs will remain the kings of contrast and black levels for some time to come, but mini-LED, with its thousands of tiny LEDs, is the next best thing. And in a brightly lit room, it even outperforms all but the most expensive OLED TVs.
The 6-Series Mini-LED 8K QLED TV isn't just about picture quality. TCL has also equipped this model with a surprisingly good sound system, complete with a built-in subwoofer, stereo tweeters, and down-firing midrange drivers. It won't outshine a really good soundbar or dedicated speaker system, but if you're determined to stick with just a TV, the 6-Series will make you happy indeed.
This TV also scores on usability. When it comes to smart TV interfaces, it's hard to beat the Roku OS for ease of use and simplicity. But in 2022, TCL went under the hood to make picture adjustments just as easy as finding something to stream. A smart settings algorithm pays attention to how you want one input or source to behave in terms of brightness, contrast, etc., and then automatically applies that to the TV's other inputs and sources. You can tweak them individually, but having them closer to where you want them saves a lot of time and effort.
Speaking of inputs, it's also worth noting that TCL has given the 6-Series two HDMI 2.1 inputs with 4K/120Hz, and that's over and above the HDMI 2.1 you get on the dedicated HDMI eARC port.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends 85-inch Sony Bravia XR Z9J The best 8K TV for upscaling Untouchable picture quality Next-level picture upscaling Impressive anti-glare screen Fast and responsive Google TV interface Expensive Why you should buy it : Sony is a top brand when it comes to arresting picture quality, and the Z9J is another addition to the company's portfolio of prolific TVs.
Who it's for : Sony fans and anyone looking for one of the sharpest and most colorful 8K TVs on the market.
Why we chose the Sony XR Z9J : Compared to Samsung and LG, Sony gets a little less attention in the TV marketplace, but the brand's command of the limelight is certainly still on the strong side. And let's be frank: it's almost impossible to beat the level of color detail you'll get with any flagship Sony TV, a feat that the company manages to top themselves on, yet again, with the amazing Z9J Master Series.
Available in 75- and 85-inch sizes, the Z9J uses Sony's Cognitive Processor XR with XR Triluminos Pro to deliver jaw-dropping picture without even dipping our toes into 8K sources. The kind of upscaling you'll get with the Z9J is simply next level, and Sony has definitely set the bar high for its competitors.
The Z9J is also equipped with four HDMI 2.1 inputs that deliver 8K/120Hz, and rocks a Google TV user interface , one of the best ways to experience all the comforts and thrills of your Netflix and Disney+ subscriptions. We also love the X-Wide Angle and Anti-Reflection technology, ensuring the Z9J looks incredible from any angle.
Sony recently released the 2022 Z9K , which introduces mini-LED lighting to the Master Series, but it's $3,000 more than the Z9J, which is still an amazing 2021 TV you can get your hands on while supplies last.
88-inch LG ZX Series 8K OLED TV The best 8K TV money can buy Breathtaking colors and contrast Attention-grabbing design Excellent picture upscaling Extremely expensive Why you should buy it : OLED is still the leader when it comes to picture quality, and this is the only 8K OLED TV you can buy, which pretty much makes it a no-brainer as long as you have deep pockets.
Who it's for : Those who want the very best 8K TV on the planet and have the means to pay the sky-high price.
Why we chose the LG ZX OLED TV : If you've been following our TV coverage over the past few years, you know we're simply gaga about OLED. When it comes to picture quality, viewing angles, and black levels, it's simply the best type of TV display you can buy, and LG's ZX Series is the real TV of the future, locked behind a formidable paywall.
Because true 8K content is going to be hard to come by for the next year or two until the studio and streaming worlds catch up, an 8K TV must do an excellent job of upscaling 4K or Full HD content. Otherwise, you're just wasting all of those pixels. The 2019 Z9 featured LG's second-gen Alpha 9 8K upscaling, and when we did A/B comparisons between 4K and native 8K versions of the same content on our Z9 review TV, the visible differences were minimal. The ZX gets LG's third-gen Alpha 9 8K upscaling, delivering even bigger and better upscaling.
Design-wise, the 88-inch version of the ZX series (which is also available as a 77-inch model) is also a stunner physically, with a polished aluminum stand that turns the TV into a sculpture worthy of a modern art display. The one downside: The stand and the display are integrated to the point where wall-mounting the panel portion separately is impossible.
Unfortunately, LG wasn't able to bring the price of the 88-inch LG Z9 8K OLED down from 2019 (it's still a heart-attack-inducing $30,000) but there's a 77-inch model available for the slightly less frightening figure of $20,000. Though who's kidding who? If you can afford a $20,000 TV, what's another 10 grand? Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now The best OLED TV Black Friday deals from Samsung, Sony, and LG Usually $1800, this Samsung 70-inch QLED TV is discounted to $880 Best Products LG Samsung TCL Audio / Video Black Friday deals season is always a great time to score awesome TV deals and right now, Amazon is one of the places to check out. Today, you can buy the TCL 98-inch S5 4K TV for $2,998 instead of $4,000. A substantial saving of 25% or $1,000, the TV might still not be in impulse buy territory but if you've been waiting to invest in a huge TV, this is a great saving. Here's what else you need to know before you consider buying.
Why you should buy the TCL 98-inch S5 4K TV TCL is one of the best TV brands around for value and this TCL 98-inch S5 4K TV certainly demonstrates how much it can pack in for the price. The TV offers so much more than simply being massive and bordering on home cinema like in your living room.
Audio / Video Walmart's Black Friday deals for this year have already started, which is great news for those who want a head start on their shopping. If you were planning to get a new TV, check out this offer -- a $52 discount for the 55-inch Samsung TU690T 4K TV, which lowers its price to just $298 from $350 originally. There's no point in waiting for after Thanksgiving if you can already get this 4K TV for less than $300 right now, so proceed with the purchase as soon as possible if you're interested.
Why you should buy the 55-inch Samsung TU690T 4K TV The Samsung TU690T 4K TV is an excellent display for watching streaming shows, which you can access through the Tizen OS. As a smart TV, like all of the best TVs, not only does it support all of the popular streaming services, but it will also let you download and use a wide variety of apps such as video games and workout guides. You also have the option of connecting streaming devices to the TV's HDMI port, if you're more comfortable with other platforms like Apple TV and Roku.
Audio / Video There's no need to wait for the chance to upgrade your home theater setup into your personal cinema, as Best Buy's early Black Friday deals include an $800 discount on the 85-inch Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV. From its original price of $2,800, it's available for $2,000 -- it's still not what you'd call affordable, but it's definitely a worthwhile purchase. It's unclear if the bargain will remain online through the shopping holiday, but since there's a chance that stocks sell out, we're urging you to push through with the transaction as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the 85-inch Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV The Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV is in our list of the best TVs because of the solid value that its provides. With an 85-inch display featuring 4K Ultra HD resolution for sharp details, Sony's Cognitive Processor XR that enables lifelike picture quality, and Dolby Vision that further elevates images with deeper blacks and vibrant colors, your eyes will be in for a treat. You may have to check out our guide on what size TV to buy to make sure that you have enough space for the Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV, but once you've confirmed, you won't be running out of things to watch on this 85-inch screen as it's powered by Google TV, so you'll be able to access all of the popular streaming services.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
