Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides What you need to know before upgrading your Sonos system to S2 software By Simon Cohen Close If you’re a Sonos user, you may have noticed that the familiar black Sonos app icon has undergone a small change: It’s now called Sonos S1. That’s because Sonos has a new app and new system software that it calls S2.
Why did Sonos change its app? A problematic upgrade One for all or two for some? How do I run two separate Sonos systems? What if I want to downgrade a Sonos product back to S1? If you haven’t seen it already, you’re going to be prompted by your now-renamed Sonos S1 app to upgrade to the new Sonos S2 app. But before you do that, you need to read this first: Upgrading to the new software could leave your older Sonos devices stranded, with no way to talk to the rest of your speakers.
Here’s everything you need to know: Why did Sonos change its app? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends When Sonos announced that it would be discontinuing its support for some of its oldest products, it sent shockwaves through the Sonos community. At the time, Sonos was encouraging its customers to trade up to newer devices by bricking the old products with a special recycling mode, in return for a 30% discount on a new Sonos product.
HDMI 2.1a is on its way. Here’s what you need to know Meet Sonos S2, a New App and OS — and legacy product solution At the time, Sonos already knew that it was planning to release its S2 software and realized that these older products, which it now calls legacy products, would be incompatible with the S2 release because they lacked the processing power and memory to run it. The easiest thing to do, it reasoned, was to get its customers onto newer devices so that all Sonos products in a single home could run on the same system.
That didn’t sit well with a lot of folks who were furious that there was no plan to allow older devices to live on , even if they couldn’t get the latest features. In response, Sonos came up with a new option : Keep your legacy products if you want, but you will need to stick with its older S1 software. And if you own newer devices that are S2-compatible, these will also need to stay on S1 if you want them to be part of the same, easy-to-use single system.
These are the Sonos “legacy” products. They do not work with the S2 software: Zone Players CR200 Remote Control Sonos Bridge Sonos Connect (first generation) Sonos Connect:Amp (first generation) Sonos Play:5 (first generation) A problematic upgrade Image used with permission by copyright holder So far, so good. Being allowed to run the older software means that unless you buy one of Sonos’ newest May 2020 products — the Arc , the third-gen Sub, and the Sonos Five (which must run on S2) — you can keep everything about your system as it was. There won’t be any new features coming your way, but you’ll still get bug fixes and security updates.
For people with legacy products, this is clearly the way to go. But herein lies the problem: If you aren’t careful, and you elect to upgrade to the S2 software, all of your S2-capable gear will be migrated to S2 where they will no longer be able to talk to your legacy products.
When we initially published this article, Sonos’ support pages advised that the S2 upgrade wasn’t reversible, but the company has since revised that guidance. It is now possible to downgrade an S2 product back to the S1 software as long as a) it isn’t a Sonos Arc, 3rd-gen Sub, or Sonos Five, and b) you still have at least one Sonos product running the S1 version of the software. We’ll explain how in a moment.
If you don’t want to worry about needing to downgrade an unintentionally upgraded Sonos product, simply ignore the messages encouraging you to switch to Sonos S2.
One for all or two for some? If you own a mix of legacy and newer Sonos products, keeping all of these devices on the S1 platform is probably your best bet for now.
But there is another option: You can split your system. Going this route means that you’ll need to decide which of your newer speakers you want to work with your legacy products (and thus stay on S1) and which ones will break off and form their own system, using S2.
There are a few downsides to this arrangement you should be aware of: The two systems cannot talk to one another. If you keep a first-gen Play:5 in your bedroom and decide that your new Sonos Beam should run on S2 in your living room, these devices will never play the same songs in perfect sync the way they do using the S1 app for both.
You will need to use a different email address (and thus a separate Sonos account) for your second system.
You will need to keep two different Sonos apps (S1 and S2) on your phone or tablet. Depending on which of your products you wanted to control, you would need to use the appropriate app.
If your subscription music services only support a single stream, that stream can only be used on one system at a time. If you started a Spotify stream (as an example) on your S1 system, then tried to start a second Spotify stream on your S2 system, the streaming playing on the S1 system would stop.
If you use a music app with direct control, like Spotify Connect, it will show you all of your available Sonos speakers regardless of whether they belong to your S1 or S2 system. Just as above, a single-stream-only account would start and stop if you switch between devices on different systems.
If you use voice services such as Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant, you would need to create a second account to keep using these services with your second Sonos system. However, if the two systems aren’t fully separated physically, you could end up with both systems trying to respond to your voice commands at once.
Whether your home is run exclusively on S1, S2, or a mix of the two, here’s what will be supported in the future: Sonos How do I run two separate Sonos systems? Plan ahead If you’ve decided that you want to run two Sonos systems, it means some of your products will be upgraded to the S2 platform. Make sure you plan out which speakers will be on S2 and which will remain on S1. If you upgrade a Sonos One speaker to S2 and later decide to move it into a room with a Play:1 that is still on S1, you’ll have to upgrade the Play:1 or downgrade the Sonos One to get them to play in sync or to use them as a stereo pair.
Unfortunately, in creating a second Sonos system, only the system that you’re upgrading to S2 will be able to retain all of your streaming media accounts, room names, voice service preferences, etc.
Recreating those settings in your second S1 system isn’t hard, but it’s something to keep in mind.
Step 1: Remove the products you’re keeping on the older S1 system This is very important: Any products that you keep in your existing Sonos app will be upgraded to S2 when you download the S2 version of the Sonos app.
To prevent devices from being upgraded, you need to remove them by performing a factory reset (these instructions are courtesy of Sonos ): Unplug the power cord.
Depending on which product you have, press and hold the Join button, Play/Pause button, Mute button, or Join button (Sub and Bridge) while you reconnect the power cord.
Continue holding the button until the light flashes orange and white.
The light will flash green when the process is complete and the product is ready to be set up.
Instructions specifically for the Sonos Move: Take Move off the charging base.
Press and hold the power button for at least 5 seconds to power it off.
Press and hold the Join button and place Move back on the charging base.
Continue holding the Join button until the light on top flashes orange and white.
The light will flash green when the process is complete and your Sonos Move is ready to be set up.
Finally, unplug each of these products. You’ll plug them back in when it’s time to set up your S1 system.
Step 2: Upgrade your remaining products to the Sonos S2 app There are two ways to do this. If you have received a message in your S1 app to upgrade to S2, now is the time to follow those instructions. Once complete, your remaining Sonos products should be automatically updated and you’ll see the new gold and black Sonos S2 app on your device (it’s simply called Sonos ).
If you have not received an upgrade message, you can manually download the new S2 app from the Apple App Store or Google Play.
When you launch the new S2 app, it will ask if you want to set up a new Sonos system or connect to an existing system. Select Connect to an existing system and follow the instructions.
Once complete, your remaining Sonos products will be running the S2 software and can only be controlled via the new S2 app.
Step 3: Set up your new S1 system Because you’ll be creating a new system from scratch, you need to reset your Sonos S1 app: Open the Sonos S1 app.
Go to the Settings tab.
Select App Preferences.
Scroll down to the bottom of the screen and select Reset App.
Tap Reset on the following dialog window.
Quit the Sonos S1 app entirely (depending on which iPhone or Android device you’re using, there are different ways to quit an app).
Relaunch the Sonos S1 app. As with the S2 app, it will now ask if you want to set up a new Sonos system or connect to an existing system. This time, select Set up a new Sonos system.
Follow the instructions. It will walk you through the setup of each product, including any software updates that may be needed.
Once all of your products are set up, they can only be controlled by the S1 app.
That’s it. You now have two separate Sonos systems, each controlled by its own app.
What if I want to downgrade a Sonos product back to S1? Thankfully, if you decide to downgrade from S2 to S1, it’s now possible. To do so, you’ll need to follow the factory reset instructions above for each product you want to downgrade.
Once fully reset, you can then add them to an existing S1 system as new products, using the same method you’d follow when adding any new devices to your system.
The S2 products will be downgraded to S1 during the addition process and will once again be compatible with your other S1 products.
Update: This article has been updated to reflect new information on the Sonos support page.
Editors' Recommendations What is Sonos? What you need to know about the wireless music system What is HDMI 2.0b? Here’s everything you need to know How-To Sonos Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
