Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Drop the needle like a pro: How to play vinyl records By Derek Malcolm Close If you know someone who's into turntables and playing vinyl records, it's very likely you've heard them prattle on about the tactile experience they provide versus digital audio — blah, blah, blah — and how dropping the needle on a crackly black disc is a satisfying part of the whole record ritual. Guilty as charged. But even as vinyl holds its ground at the top of the physical music format heap, I still find it interesting how many of my friends won't go near my turntable when asked to throw on a record out of fear of doing it wrong or messing something up.
Remove the record from its sleeve(s) Put the record on the platter and spindle Give the record a clean with an anti-static brush Put the needle on the record Stop the record A note on how to put records in their sleeves Granted, turntables and their associated polyvinyl discs are sophisticated, delicate analog devices, susceptible to skipping, scratching, and making a variety of horrific sounds if not handled correctly. But if you approach them less like a stomping gorilla and more like a soft-footed cat, and you'll be rewarded with some of the sweetest sounds you've ever heard. That's where we come in. From taking it out of its sleeve and giving it a clean to lowering that tonearm, here's how to correctly play a vinyl record.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Record player Vinyl records to play Anti-static brush Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Remove the record from its sleeve(s) This is not meant to sound condescending, but how you remove a record from its sleeve is kind of important; vinyl must be handled correctly to keep things like oils and debris from the fingers from building up on them, which can damage the record and your needle.
One tip before we start: If you're playing someone else's records, make a mental note about how they're inserted into both the outer plastic dust sleeve (if there is one) and how the inner sleeve (usually paper with the actual disc inside) is inserted inside the cardboard outer jacket. Be sure to put it back the same way.
Step 1: If there's an outer plastic protective cover , remove the record from it.
Abby Malcolm / Digital Trends Step 2: The actual disc should be inside another inner sleeve, inside the outer jacket. These are usually paper, or some collectors use plastic anti-static inner sleeves, too. Take that out.
Abby Malcolm / Digital Trends U-Turn Audio launches the next generation of Orbit turntables Fluance’s new RT81+ flagship turntable is $300 worth of versatility This stylish victrola Bluetooth record player is $81 off for Prime Day Step 3: Here's the important part: With one hand, carefully slide a hand inside the inner sleeve and place a few fingers on the center label of the record.
Abby Malcolm / Digital Trends Step 4: With your thumb on the outside edge of the record, slide it while maintaining the cardinal rule of never touching the record's surface.
Put the record on the platter and spindle Step 1: Now that you've got the record out of the sleeve, let's make sure you're handling it properly as you put it on the turntable. This is basically the only way you should ever hold a record. This will apply to when you take it off, too.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Holding the record by its outside edges, place it on the platter's spindle. Try to make sure you line it up as best as possible to avoid the spindle marking up the record's label. Not a big deal, but if it's a rare first pressing or sentimental record, you don't want to scratch the hell out of it.
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Give the record a clean with an anti-static brush You're almost ready to spin. The next step is to remove any dust, debris, or pet hair from the surface of the record to protect the stylus and remove any static charge. For this, we use a common anti-static brush that you can buy pretty much anywhere.
For grittier or dirtier records, like used finds or old records, they may require a deeper cleaning.
We cover that more thoroughly in another post.
Step 1: With the record on the turntable, start the platter spinning.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Holding the body of the brush only (touching the bristles will void any static removal), hold the anti-static brush perpendicular to the record's grooves and gently contact the bristles with the spinning record at a slight angle.
Step 3: I like to start at around the nine o'clock position and move the brush to the six o'clock position. Then, let the record spin four or five times and let the brush just graze the record's surface.
Step 4: For the removal, slowly slide the brush toward the outer edge of the record until it's off.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Now you can repeat the process as needed, but be sure to clean the brush each time to loosen anything it's caught. This can be done with the brush's plastic outer handle by flipping it back and forth over the bristles. If you want to be more thorough, you can remove the outer handle and swipe the bristles across its edge as well.
Step 6: Optional : some people like to also give their records a brush after they've played them before putting them back in their sleeves.
Put the needle on the record With your record cleaned, you're ready to spin.
Step 1: Engage the platter to start spinning at the correct speed — either 33 1/3 or 45 RMP. Every turntable is different. Some will have a switch, while others will start when you move the tonearm toward the record. Whichever way yours works, do it.
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Step 2: Make sure the cue lever is engaged (in the up position) and move the tonearm over so that the needle is sitting directly above the outer edge of the record to play its first song. When you let go, the cue lever will let the needle hover over the record.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Lower the cue lever gently, and the stylus will contact the spinning record's surface and start playing.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Some record players don't have a cue lever, so you'll have to lower the tonearm and stylus by hand. This is easy as well, but can take some practice. I suggest using your index finger while resting your hand on the platter for stability.
Step 5: Turn up the volume and enjoy! Stop the record Some record players have an auto-stop feature, in which the record will stop spinning when it's done. Whether yours does or not, here's what to do when you're ready to stop the music.
Step 1: Simply raise the cue arm to disengage the stylus with the record, whether it's still spinning or not.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Place the tonearm back in its cradle.
Step 3: With the record still spinning, once again use the anti-static brush to give the record one last clean before flipping it to play the other side.
A note on how to put records in their sleeves A further note about putting the records back in their sleeves the right way. This depends on how you store your records — like in record store-style bins or crates where the tops of the records are exposed for flipping through or on record shelves with the spines facing outwards. This also depends on whether you store your records in outer protective plastic sleeves or not: Most collectors do, but some do not, and that's OK, too.
Step 1: With the record in its inner sleeve, slide it back in the jacket with the open side facing upwards and not facing the jacket's open side. This way, the record can't fall out.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Place the jacket back in the protective plastic sleeve. If you store your records in the record-store style bins, put the plastic sleeves on sideways to the top of the record jacket is not exposed to dirty fingers when flipping.
If you store your records on record shelves, drop them in top-down with the open side up. This ensures that the spines are covered and that when you pull them off the shelves, the plastic sleeve doesn't get stuck inside or that you don't just pull the sleeve out on its own, especially on cramped shelves. This is really in the weeds, but it's the little things that count in record collecting. Enjoy! Editors' Recommendations The world’s first portable record player just got its first big discount House of Marley goes Lux with its revamped Stir it Up turntable This Victrola record player with Bluetooth is $20 right now The best turntables of 2023 to play your vinyl records How we test turntables and record players How-To Guides Audio / Video With vinyl record sales showing no signs of letting up, there's a pretty good chance that you've already grabbed yourself a great turntable and started discovering the awesomeness of building a record collection.
But like any new passion or hobby, once you've gotten your feet wet, you inevitably discover just how deep the well goes as a seemingly endless range of turntable accessories, upgrades, and more starts to appear. From better cartridges and phono preamps for coaxing the best sound from your turntable, to precision setup tools to make sure everything's properly balanced, to cleaning, storage, and organization gear, we've put it all together in this roundup of the best record player accessories to level up your spinning life.
Audio / Video You've spent years and hundreds, maybe thousands, of dollars building the ultimate Sonos-networked sound system to have digital music flowing throughout your home. But like so many others recently, you've found your gaze turning to today's newest old fad — vinyl — and are wondering if you can connect a turntable to your sweet Sonos setup and avoid shelling out for a whole new analog sound system.
Good news: you can. And with some new additions to Sonos' lineup, like the Sonos Era 100 and Sonos Era 300 speakers, there are more options than ever for connecting a record player to Sonos speakers so you can get to spinning. Doing this will allow you to select the turntable line input through the Sonos app, like usual, and play your vinyl through your Sonos speakers, to multiple rooms if you have that set up.
Audio / Video People love vinyl records for a myriad of reasons. It might be the satisfying hum of the needle as the groove spins beneath it that attracts them, or the enjoyment of handling a physical product and soaking up the album artwork. But for many, of course, it's pure nostalgia that draws them back to the once-dominant music-playing format.
Vinyl albums have been making a comeback in recent years, and new data shows that for the first time since 1987, they’ve outsold CDs in the U.S. market.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
