Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How Much is Spotify Premium? Download Songs from Spotify Share a Spotify Playlist How to Cancel Spotify Premium Apple Music vs Spotify Spotify Free Trial Delete Spotify Account Home Audio / Video News Sonos takes aim at Apple Music and Spotify with ad-free, original radio stations By Simon Cohen Close Sonos is a company best-known for its popular line of wireless home speakers , but today, with the global launch of Sonos Radio , it makes its first foray into creating the content that those speakers play. The new feature will be rolling out via a software update throughout the day.
Sonos Radio is a new music source within the Sonos app that acts as a central curation point for the company’s original radio programming as well as many of the local radio stations that you’d normally access via TuneIn.
Sonos ’ own content will be a mix of ad-free and ad-supported stations that appear to be designed to compete with both Apple Music and Spotify’s biggest curated features.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The original programming is headlined by Sonos Sound System, an ad-free station created and hosted by Sonos , featuring “new and well-known music, behind-the-scenes stories, and guest artist radio hours.” The station is recorded in a radio studio situated in Sonos’ flagship store in New York City.
The artist-hosted radio hours will be released every Wednesday and they’ll kick off each new stream of Sonos Sound System. These are 60-minute radio shows that combine music with commentary about inspiring artists, releases, as well as the host’s own latest work. At launch, hosts will include Angel Olsen, JPEGMAFIA, Phoebe Bridgers, Jeff Parker (Tortoise), Vagabon, and others.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Complementing Sonos Sound System is a series of individual, ad-free artist-curated stations that feature a regularly updated stream of hundreds of songs chosen by well-known names like Thom Yorke, Brittany Howard of Alabama Shakes, and David Byrne. Yorke’s station is the debut offering, with the others slated to appear in the coming weeks.
Sonos plans to regularly launch new artist stations, but a spokesperson told Digital Trends that certain artist stations may also disappear over time too.
Artist stations should be a compelling experience for fans: Music selections are interspersed with podcast-style thoughts from the hosts, making them far more personal than simply having a playlist assembled by these individuals. Artist stations won’t necessarily be limited to big names. One of the planned stations will be produced by Third Man Records, Jack White’s label, but Sonos did not confirm if it will be White himself picking songs and hosting commentary.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The third leg to Sonos ’ original radio content is a collection of over 30 ad-supported Sonos Stations “inspired by Sonos owner’s favorite genres.” Each Sonos Station will feature a mix of tracks that are hand-picked by Sonos staff and include genre titles such as Concert Hall, Country Outlaws, HipHop Archive, and Kids Rock. The company says theses mixes will be regularly refreshed.
Finally, Sonos is positioning Sonos Radio as a one-stop-shop for all of your local internet radio stations too. These will be aggregated from existing services like TuneIn, iHeartRadio, and Radio.com as well as others from around the globe.
Sonos Radio organizes them by genre, but also helps you find your nearest terrestrial sources through your zip code.
If it sounds like Sonos Radio has a lot in common with radio-like features from Apple Music (think Beats 1) and Spotify ( Discover Weekly ), you’re right. However, there are two big differences at launch. First, Sonos Radio only works when you’re listening to a Sonos system. Just like the Sonos app can’t be used to access its hundreds of other music sources when you’re away from home, Sonos Radio is tethered to your Sonos wireless music speakers.
Second, all Sonos Radio streams are limited to just 128 kbps. For those who don’t pay much attention to digital audio bitrates , this is a low-bandwidth stream that will not sound as good as streaming from sources like Apple Music, Spotify Premium , or Tidal , or even your private collection of songs.
Sonos claims the decision to use 128 kbps for the Radio service is that this is more or less the standard for streaming radio stations. And while that is certainly true of a lot of the local radio streams you’ll find on TuneIn, virtually all streaming platforms use a higher quality. Granted, Sonos Radio is free for all Sonos customers, however, even Spotify’s free tier offers 160 kbps as the maximum quality for non-mobile apps.
Perhaps Sonos will offer higher-quality streams in the future as a paid option. We know from previous statements that the upcoming S2 release of the Sonos software will enable “higher resolution audio,” so a premium Sonos Radio tier certainly seems like a good bet.
Another possible future development to keep an eye open for is a full-fledged subscription streaming service from Sonos.
 The company tells us that the tracks used to populate its Sonos Stations are sourced from the Rhapsody-owned “Powered by Napster,” a complete music and audio platform service. Could a broader partnership with Rhapsody be in the works? Never say never.
For now, Sonos Radio’s catalog of global internet radio stations will be available for all customers worldwide, while its original programming will be available in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, and Australia starting today, with support for additional countries to follow.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music How much is Apple Music, and how can you get it for free? What is Spotify? Music, pricing, and features explained What is Deezer? Features, pricing, and music quality explained Spotify is testing the removal of a popular feature from its free tier News Apple Music Streaming Services Sonos Spotify Tech News Audio / Video It's a jungle of music streaming platforms out there, so it stands to reason that Amazon would have one among its massive kingdom of services. And while Amazon Music might not be top of mind among the Spotifys and Apple Musics of the world, you might be surprised by its 100-million-song library, high-resolution and spatial audio offerings, podcast library, Alexa voice control, and a pretty amiable user interface that makes finding music pretty easy.
Amazon Music's subscriptions range from free to its premium Music Unlimited tier, which can be added for $9 per month on top of a subscription to Amazon Prime. However, Amazon recently announced that, as of September 19, this price is going up to $10 per month (more on this below). But they all come with some quirks and features. We're going to break them all down for you to help you choose which, if any, Amazon Music plan is right for you.
Audio / Video The Apple Music Discovery Station is now available, but won't kill Spotify all on its own. Phil Ninckinson / Digital Trends There's a crutch that tends to appear whenever Apple is written about, and it's arisen yet again this week. Apple Music now has a "Discovery Station" that lives alongside your personalized station (that's the one with your name). And that's led some lazy headlines to declare that Apple Music finally has a feature "that could kill Spotify." Audio / Video By the end of 2022, Spotify's global Premium subscribers topped 205 million, continuing its reign as the top-dog music streaming service in the world. And while its closest competitors, Apple Music and Amazon Music, offer comparable 100-million song catalogs, as well as higher-quality lossless audio tracks, Spotify's user interface is often held on a pedestal for its ease of use, fun design, social elements, and aptitude at helping users discover new music. The platform is also always adding new features, such as its AI-driven "DJ" assistant.
But that user experience can be limited depending upon the tier. The only way to enjoy unlimited skips, free downloads, offline listening, and a host of other great features is by upgrading your account to Spotify Premium. With four plan options that range from $6 to $17 per month — note that prices increased in mid-2023 — Spotify is a pretty good value. But before you grab your credit card and sign up, read on as we dig into what you get with Spotify Premium and explore how you might be able to get it at a discount.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
