Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Sonos One review Now that every speaker has Alexa, don't you want the best? Get the Sonos One By Caleb Denison Close $199.00 Superb sound quality Dead-simple setup Super easy to use Excellent Alexa integration Priced well No threaded insert for mounting No Bluetooth streaming Sonos is wildly popular for a reason. We in the tech biz toss the term “wireless multiroom audio” around a lot, but what Sonos really does is put great-sounding music in every corner of your home or business — while making it dead simple. We like to think of Sonos as the audio company Apple wishes it could be — one that gives you amazing sound that “just works.” So what could possibly raise our enthusiasm about the company and its wares? We have the answer for you here in our Sonos One review.
Sonos isn’t alone in this game any longer. Alexa came along and blew the home speaker floodgates wide open. With its open digital assistant platform, Amazon was able not only to popularize its own speaker products, but also see to it that Alexa started popping up everywhere and controlling everything. Today, if your product doesn’t work with Alexa, it’s considered behind the times. What’s more, Google was prodded to get in on the action and is now pushing its own line of speakers.
Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update Best Bluetooth speaker deals: Save on Bose, Sonos, JBL, and more The best Bluetooth speakers for 2023: Marshall, Sonos, JBL, and more Sonos had to pivot, and pivot it has. In October 2017, Sonos released the Sonos One , a reimagined version of its popular Play:1 speaker that’s built to be the smartest smart speaker on the market. In 2019, the company also updated the Sonos One with faster internals and easier setup via Bluetooth LE. Out of the box, the Sonos One supports Amazon’s Alexa , but we’re still waiting for Google Assistant to come to the One sometime in 2019 — after an initial promise of a 2018 launch date. Follow below to find out if the company’s effort to even further simplify whole-home audio is as successful as it sounds.
( Editor’s note: This review has been updated to include info on the Sonos One’s newly launched Apple Music support and the speaker’s minimally updated 2019 version.
) Out of the box Dan Baker/Digital Trends Sonos long ago perfected its out-of-the-box experience, drawing inspiration from the folks at Apple and making it all its own. Inside the Sonos Play One box, you’ll find a simple setup card, information on downloading and setting up Amazon’s Alexa app, and a clever sort of “dial” meant to inform and inspire you to tell Alexa how to get music going in your home.
Setup We’ve been praising Sonos for its foolproof setup process, and we’re going to go ahead and keep heaping on the kudos. Figuring out how to seamlessly integrate Amazon’s Alexa assistant and app into its ecosystem is something the company says it pored over for months — and it shows. The process is, like all things Sonos, blissfully easy.
We’ve been praising Sonos for its foolproof setup process, and we’re going to keep heaping on the kudos.
Plug the Sonos One into a wall outlet, pull the Sonos app up on a smartphone or tablet, and let the app walk you through the process. It will begin by having you create a Sonos account if you don’t already have one. From there, the app will discover the speaker automatically and prompt you to grant it access to your Wi-Fi network – if for some reason Wi-Fi isn’t available or stable enough, the speaker can be connected via Ethernet cable (not included) but don’t do that unless instructed.
Once the Sonos One has been connected to your network and you’ve named it (Living Room, Bedroom, Den, Kitchen, you get the idea), the app will prompt you to use Trueplay room-tuning software from Sonos. We strongly suggest you take the 2 minutes or so that this requires to get the speaker sounding its best – it really does make a significant difference.
Once you’re done walking around the room waving your phone in the air, you’ll be prompted to activate Alexa. This will require you to access the Amazon Alexa app, so make sure you’ve downloaded it and opened an Amazon account if you don’t already have one.
From there, you can choose from a list of 50 music apps like Apple Music , Deezer, and more for Alexa to access. Specific apps — including Amazon Music and Music Unlimited, Tunein Radio, Pandora , iHeart Radio, Sirius XM, and Spotify — can even be set as the default streaming app for Alexa to use when you ask for a specific song or artist. Sonos also recently teamed with Pandora to add full support to Pandora’s mobile app, in case you’re a fan. As of April 2019, Apple Music is also officially supported.
Ease of use If you’re used to talking to Alexa through an Echo speaker or Fire TV device , you already know that Alexa is pretty good at deciphering your requests and turning them into actions. Alexa isn’t perfect, though, so if you’re new to this, expect a bit of a learning curve when figuring out what Alexa can and can’t do.
If you think Alexa is smart now, wait until you use it on a Sonos One speaker.
If you think Alexa is smart now, wait until you use it on a Sonos One speaker. By designing the Alexa Sonos skills from the ground up, the company has made getting the music you want on the speaker you want a breeze. For those who own multiple Sonos speakers, getting your favorite tracks playing in the right place is about to become a whole lot more fun.
Say a command like, “Alexa, play my jazz playlist in the kitchen,” and the Sonos speaker in your kitchen will begin playing your music in seconds. You can also set up a separate stream using Alexa. Ask the speaker to “play the Trends with Benefits podcast in the den,” and you’ll soon be listening to DT’s Greg Nibler and Ryan Waniata cutting it up over the latest tech in an entertaining half-hour podcast.
Thanks to Sonos’ microphone implementation, you can issue these voice commands from just about anywhere within earshot of the speaker. We were also impressed with how music could be blaring at full volume, but the microphones still caught us when we said, “Alexa,” to bring the speaker to attention.
Sound quality The Sonos One sounds exactly like a Sonos Play:1 speaker, which is to say it is one of the best-sounding compact multiroom wireless speakers you can buy today. Expect more bass than you thought possible from such a small speaker, with uncongested midrange, natural-sounding vocals, and clear, sparkling treble. Frankly, the only thing that’s going to sound significantly better than a Sonos One speaker in your room is two Sonos One speakers. If you want a deeper dive into sound quality, just head over to our Sonos Play:1 review.
Complaints Sonos is big on pointing out that its speakers connect via Wi-Fi, not Bluetooth, and while Wi-Fi has its distinct advantages, there’s no arguing Bluetooth is a convenience most folks want. Sonos added Bluetooth LE (Low Energy) to the One for 2019, but it’s important to understand this is not for playing music — it’s simply for slightly faster setup.
We want to give the Sonos One a perfect score, but without Bluetooth streaming for audio, we had to knock it down half a point. Also, one of the great things about the Play:1 speaker is its ability to be mounted to the wall or ceiling thanks to the inclusion of a 1/4-inch threaded insert. With such great far-field voice reception, we’re confused as to why Sonos eliminated the insert in the One. These are hardly deal-breakers, but explain why we didn’t go for a full five stars here.
Warranty information Sonos provides a standard warranty covering defects in materials and workmanship in every Sonos product for one year from the date of shipment from Sonos or the date of the original retail purchase from an authorized Sonos dealer. You can learn more about the warranty here.
Our Take The Sonos One is everything we’d hoped it would be: The best-sounding self-contained Alexa-enabled speaker you can buy, with the promise of Google Assistant and more coming soon, and the convenience and flexibility of Sonos’ killer app and ecosystem.
Is there a better alternative? As much as we love Sonos, the Riva Concert recently forced us to reconsider our expectations of a compact, connected smart speaker. With full Alexa support and fantastic sound, plus Bluetooth, aux-in, a USB port, and an identical price to the Sonos One, well, what can we say? It’s the first speaker to give Sonos some serious competition, and you owe it to yourself to check it out before making your decision.
How long will it last? The Sonos One should last longer than most smart speakers given expected updates and Sonos’ ability to build upon its flexible platform. As for build quality, the Sonos One is among the best-built powered speakers you can buy today, with the Riva Arena right up there with it.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you want all the convenience of Alexa (and Google Assistant coming soon), along with Sonos’ intuitive system and excellent sound quality, the Sonos One remains one of the best you can get.
Editors' Recommendations The best speakers for 2023: great hi-fi options for music and more JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans Best wireless speakers for 2023: Sonos, Apple, KEF, and more Android users are about to lose a handy Sonos feature Sonos could soon be the soundtrack for your next shopping trip Amazon Amazon Alexa Google Google Nest Product Reviews Sonos Speakers Wireless & Bluetooth Speaker Reviews Audio / Video When Sonos recently debuted its two newest wireless speakers -- the Era 100 and Era 300 -- it broke with years of precedence by adding Bluetooth, a connection option that has never been offered on the company’s non-portable speakers. At the time, I thought Bluetooth on an Era speaker worked the same way as it does on the Sonos Move. I was wrong.
It turns out, the Era speakers use Bluetooth in tandem with their Wi-Fi connections, as opposed to the Move, which treats Bluetooth as a completely separate mode. That has some profound implications for what you can do with one of the new Era speakers within a Sonos system, as well as a few caveats about what you can’t do.
Audio / Video When you think about wireless music, one name comes to mind. Sonos. And unless you’re a diehard analog music fan who shuns anything digital, you’ve likely encountered the Sonos brand. It effectively pioneered and normalized the idea of multi-room, digital wireless audio, and it’s still the gold standard to beat.
Curious about what exactly Sonos does, and how it works in the same world that already includes Apple, Spotify, and even your old Technics turntable? Is Sonos right for you? Let's dig into it.
What is Sonos? Audio / Video Speakers are truly a dime a dozen these days. From every big tech manufacturer under the sun dipping its toes into the audio marketplace to super-boutique Kickstarter endeavors to whatever this is, there are thousands of speakers to choose from, and plenty more on the way. But considering the proliferation of at-home, on-ear, vehicular, and portable audio products, you may be asking yourself: Which speaker companies are truly the best? We asked ourselves that question too, and after many long hours of research and testing, plus years of experience in the world of AV consumer tech, we've come up with this list of the best speaker brands on the market right now. For each name, we've provided a brief history, some notable products, and accolades, along with what we consider to be the best singular speaker (or pair of speakers) from each company.
JBL Accessibility meets performance The JBL Pulse 5 looks like a lava lamp. Derek Malcolm / Digital trends Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
