Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? These are the best Wi-Fi routers for 2023 By Kevin Parrish , Chuong Nguyen and Kunal Khullar Close If you are looking to improve your wireless network speeds, then you should probably think about upgrading your router, especially if you indulge in streaming high-definition videos or online gaming.
Going for a new router model can also help enhance the extent of wireless coverage, thus allowing seamless usage throughout your home or office space. Among the options available, we particularly recommend Netgear's Nighthawk RAXE300, which impressively combines a plethora of features.
In addition to our top pick, we've reviewed and compared some of the latest router models to curate a selection of the finest Wi-Fi routers currently on the market. Have a look at our recommendations below to gain insights into which device aligns best with your requirements. Whether you're seeking a Wi-Fi 6 router , a budget-conscious alternative, or the ultimate choice for gaming , we have your preferences covered.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Netgear Nighthawk RAXE300 The best Wi-Fi router Wi-Fi 6E support No unsightly antenna with futuristic design Can be controlled with an app Optional services require subscription Still expensive Why you should buy this: It's fully featured with Wi-Fi 6E support, priced competitively, and provides great speeds.
Who it's for: People wanting the best new router for their homes.
Why we chose the Netgear Nighthawk RAXE300: Announced in early 2022 at CES, Netgear is looking to bring the latest Wi-Fi 6E technology into more homes with its Nighthawk RAXE300 router, which sports the same futuristic wing-shaped antenna design as the company's more premium Nighthawk RAXE500 offering. Designed for robust connectivity, the Nighthawk RAXE300 can handle speeds up to 7.8Gbps and cover homes as large as 2,500 square feet.
Thanks to a new 6GHz band, the router can efficiently handle traffic, reduce congestion, and minimize latency, which will be great for lag-free game streams, buffer-free 4K and 8K video streaming, and uninterrupted sessions of video conferencing.
Netgear boasts that its wing-shaped antenna design helps to cover your home with a reliable Wi-Fi signal while not being as aggressive as competing routers. Those in larger homes can also pick up one of Netgear's extenders to create a whole-home mesh networking solution. Like other members of the Nighthawk family, the Nighthawk RAXE300 can be controlled via an app, and optional subscription plans bring greater control and security for those who need it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder TP-Link Archer AX6600 The best high-performance router Wi-Fi 6 support Multi-gig Ethernet ports Solid performance Relatively expensive Why you should buy this: It offers Wi-Fi 6 connectivity without compromising performance.
Who it's for: Those ready to invest in the latest Wi-Fi technology.
Why we chose the TP-Link Archer AX6600: Like our first pick, this model supports Wi-Fi 6 — but offers a performance upgrade for those who want to push their routers to do even more.
The Archer AX6600 is an excellent dual-band Wi-Fi 6 router dishing out speeds of up to 4,804Mbps on the 5GHz band and up to 1,148Mbps on the 2.4GHz band. It's compatible with important new technologies like OFDMA and MU-MIMO and provides a USB-C port for charging and high-speed data transfers. There are also nine Gigabit Ethernet ports for many wired connections if you prefer even more reliability.
The router includes proprietary technology as well, like software that moves devices between bands if one band gets too crowded. There's Alexa compatibility, too, so you can perform basic network management actions with voice commands.
Many router manufacturers already offer Wi-Fi 6 models , but the TP-Link Archer AX6600 is particularly versatile. It's a great fit for home offices or small businesses, or for anyone who has a lot of wireless devices and wants them all performing at the top of their game.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Google Nest WiFi Pro The easiest wireless router to use Easy to set up Fairly well priced Wi-Fi 6E Google Home, Matter support Ethernet port limited to 1Gbps Requires Nest Cloud services Why you should buy this: It creates a powerful mesh network, perfect for larger homes.
Who it's for: Anyone who needs a large, uniform network.
Why we chose the Nest WiFi Pro: The Nest Wi-Fi Pro is an excellent example of a mesh network router, where multiple nodes link together to form a wireless network with bigger, better coverage. The router alone covers 2,200 square feet, but you can bundle it with either one or two "points" to cover up to 5,400 square feet. It's ideal for large spaces or homes that struggle with heavy interference and dead zones.
The 2022 update to Nest routers added many welcome features, notably Wi-Fi 6E support, and support for the new Matter smart home protocol to make it even easier to set up the routers and monitor them from your phone. It also supports automatic band switching to move devices around to the best channels.
The router unit includes two Ethernet ports tucked away in a compartment on the bottom — one for the modem and one for other wired devices, like a switch or desktop. One router can reach up to 2,200 square feet, and two routers can double that.
TP-Link TP-Link Archer AX10 The best budget wireless router Affordable price Four Gigabit LAN ports Alexa support Great performance Limited design for coverage No USB ports Why you should buy this: Few routers can compete with the TP-Link Archer AX10 at this price.
Who it's for: Anyone wanting to expand their network on a budget.
Why we chose the TP-Link Archer AX10: Looking for a budget router? This affordable model has everything you need without breaking the bank. It's a perfect fit for a home that doesn't need a ton of speed or extra-wide coverage, but would still benefit from quality-of-life features.
The Archer AX10 offers dual-band performance with up to 1.5Gbps speeds that can support 4K streaming, online gaming, and multiple devices at the same time. It is powered by a 1.5GHz triple-core CPU and features four Gigabit LAN ports and one Gigabit WAN port. It even supports TP-Link's OneMesh standard that allows you to create a mesh network using other TP-Link OneMesh products. With support for Amazon Alexa, users can give voice commands to control certain features of the Archer AX10.
It is notable that the router lacks any USB ports, doesn’t support 160MHz channel, and lacks WPA3 encryption, but for under $100. this is a pretty good option for a basic home office setup.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Netgear Nighthawk Pro Gaming XR1000 The best gaming router Solid Wi-Fi 6 performance Options catered towards gamers and streamers Malware protection included Excellent coverage No multi-gig port or port aggregation Relatively pricey Why you should buy this: It prioritizes game services and game data for the best results.
Who it's for: Gamers and anyone who wants the fastest network possible.
Why we chose the Netgear Nighthawk Pro Gaming XR1000: The new Netgear Nighthawk Pro XR1000 replaces its earlier XR500 model on our list as the best router for every gamer. The XR1000 comes equipped with the latest Wi-Fi 6 technology, which is designed to help reduce latency and improve connection speeds. Netgear boasts that ping could be reduced by as much as 93% and 40% faster speeds with the Nighthawk Pro Gaming XR1000.
The Nighthawk Pro XR1000 comes with a dual-band antenna, beamforming support, geofencing to connect to closer servers, and application QoS support to give bandwidth priority to game streams, VoIP calls, and other types of media streaming. There are plenty of added software features packed into the Nighthawk app, too.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Eero Pro 6E Best affordable Wi-Fi 6E mesh network Supports fast, multigig connectivity Wi-Fi 6E onboard Easy to use and setup Great range Relatively affordable compared to competitors No quad-band design Late to the Wi-Fi 6E game Why you should buy this: Mesh routers help blanket your home with reliable Wi-Fi coverage, and Eero's top-of-the-line model delivers all this in a simple, easy-to-use solution.
Who it's for: Businesses, offices, and large homes struggling with coverage issues.
Why we chose the Eero Pro 6E: The Pro 6E is the latest model to join Eero's mesh family of routers, and it's by far the company's best effort in the space. Retaining the familiar and minimalist design of Eero's prior mesh routers as well as the line's simple-to-set-up and easy-to-use app interface, the Eero Pro 6E adds support for Wi-Fi 6E, which opens the doors to multi-gigabit support over wired and wireless connections. While Eero isn't the first to Wi-Fi 6E support — rivals Linksys' Atlas Max 6E and Netgear's Orbi RBKE963 had beat it to the punch with mesh systems that promise more powerful coverage — Eero strikes a good balance between performance, features, and affordability, making it a great contender in the space for families looking to add Wi-Fi 6E to their network.
In our Eero Pro 6E review , we found that it delivers strong coverage with limited degradation to speeds or any noticeable increase in latency across a large space, and the company claimed that a setup with two additional nodes can blanket a home as large as 6,000 square feet. You can also add even more nodes to amplify your Wi-Fi signal across even larger spaces: In fact, that capability has gotten much more interesting thanks to the newest Amazon Echo Dot, which can serve as both an Alex speaker and an Eero satellite to expand your coverage.
But if you don't need the level of performance from the Eero Pro 6E, be sure to check out Eero's other Wi-Fi 6-enabled mesh systems, including our reviews of the Eero 6 and the Eero 6+ , as well as the Eero Pro 6.
ASUS Asus ROG Rapture GT-AXE16000 Bleeding edge network performance for gamers Four-band system Mesh ready Settings for gamers Built-in network security Two 10GbE ports Expensive Large footprint Why you should buy this: It's the most advanced Wi-Fi 6E router with quad-band capabilities.
Who it's for: Hardcore gamers, streamers, and consumers who want top-of-the-line wireless performance.
Why we chose the Asus ROG Rapture GT-AXE16000: If money is no barrier, then you need to experience the Asus ROG Rapture GT-AXE16000. It comes with top-of-the-line features, including two 10Gbps Ethernet ports, a single 2.5GbE WAN port, and four gigabit ports. It is also the world's first router that offers a quad-band Wi-Fi 6E wireless setup featuring a 2.4GHz band at 1148Mbps, two 5GHz bands at 4804Mbps, and a 6GHz band at 4804Mbps. Basically. this router is configured to manage a higher volume of traffic than most households typically require, and it can effortlessly support simultaneous streaming connections.
The bundled software is also packed with features. For instance, AiProtection offers extra web security, malicious site blocking, parental controls, intrusion protection, and more. AiMesh allows the ROG Rapture GT-AXE16000 to create a mesh network with almost any ASUS router. The router also features USB 2.0 and USB 3.0 ports, a 2.0GHz quad-core 64-bit CPU, some interesting built-in gaming settings, and RGB lighting.
More Frequently Asked Questions A wireless router has a wired connection to the modem, the device that connects to the broader internet infrastructure outside your building. The router takes that internet data and turns it into a radio signal (far outside the range of human hearing) that can be broadcast across the surrounding area. Our electronic devices are equipped with receivers that pick up these signals and translate them back into data our devices need to create the content we see, hear, and use on our screens.
These are radio frequency bands that are specifically set aside to communicate wireless data. The two primary bands are 2.4GHz and 5GHz. Dual-band routers can broadcast Wi-Fi signals on both these bands at once, allowing devices to switch between bands depending on where there is the least interference. Some routers use a second section of the 5GHz band for additional possibilities, so these are called tri-band routers.
The two bands can be broken down further into channels, or narrower sections of the radio spectrum, but this usually isn't necessary unless you're doing a pinpoint analysis of what frequencies are best in a specific area.
Wi-Fi is always undergoing improvement in things like how data is efficiently packaged into radio signals, what security it uses, and how it forms connections with electronic devices. That means that the Wi-Fi protocol — the standards and data formats that routers use — occasionally changes so much that a new protocol is developed to incorporate all the technological advances and, well, level up Wi-Fi.
In the past, Wi-Fi protocols were named after codes like 802.11ac. This refers to the specific IEEE (Institute of Electronics and Electronics Engineers) local area network standards, sort of like citing chapter and page for reference. But when the 802.11ax protocol arrived, there was a broad decision to change the naming conventions and simply call it "Wi-Fi 6" to make things easier for the consumer. The next protocol will almost certainly be called Wi-Fi 7, but that's still years away.
A router (and receiving devices) needs to be compatible with a protocol to use it: Protocols contain a lot of backward compatibility for older devices, but an older router won't be able to use a new protocol, which is why it's always important to see what protocol a router has before buying. These days, look for routers branded Wi-Fi 6 or Wi-Fi 6E to enjoy the latest advances. However, if your home broadband plan comes with speeds less than a gigabit, you can save some money by going with a slightly older Wi-Fi 5 router at this time.
We already mentioned how important Wi-Fi 6 is for our current crop of routers and devices. Other important features to watch for include: Dual-band or tri-band capabilities to help manage multiple devices more easily Beamforming or similar technologies that can help target devices and prevent dead zones WP3 encryption Automatic optimization to prioritize certain kinds of traffic, devices, or activities like gaming Technologies like MU-MIMO (supported by Wi-Fi 6) that allow for more direct Wi-Fi connections to specific devices Security features to help detect unwanted devices, add guest networks, or add parental controls as needed Gigabit Ethernet ports for additional high-speed cable connections, if necessary A smartphone app that can be used for installation and monitoring Mesh network capabilities if you want to cover a particularly broad area Compared to many electronic devices, routers are a long-lived bunch. They can often last for five years or longer without developing any problems that would require a replacement. However, replacing a router every few years is a good way to ensure you are keeping up with the latest technology and security, not to mention Wi-Fi speeds. If you start to see more and more devices supporting a new standard like Wi-Fi 6, that's an excellent reason to look for a new router. More advanced routers, like home mesh systems, are also smarter than traditional routers. These systems benefit from regular software updates and security patches that are applied at night during downtime, which requires no action on your part. And if you choose, you can check for available software updates through the companion smartphone app.
Wi-Fi 7 is currently in development, and routers supporting this standard are not expected to hit the market until 2024.
Routers have long had the ability to expand their signals via repeaters, or devices that take the router signal and replicate it in a different area, reaching more space and fixing problems like dead zones and dropped connections. A mesh router is simply a more advanced, user-friendly version of this idea in one package, allowing homeowners to blanket their property with good Wi-Fi coverage and reduce dead zones. Routers like Eero 6 Pro and Nest WiFi Pro have a primary router to serve as a hub, and satellite routers that are made to connect to it. These mesh systems are strong solutions for businesses, venues, and other large areas.
While mesh routers have been a pricey investment in the past, that's not always true today — Vilo's latest mesh system starts at $20 for a single router and $60 for a three-pack to extend Wi-Fi signal to remote corners of your home. But you don't have to buy a dedicated mesh system to get the benefits of this type of network — some manufacturers even allow you to convert traditional routers into a mesh system by purchasing additional main units or satellite nodes and connecting them together to create a mesh network through a smartphone app. One example of this is the ASUS ROG GT-AX11000, which can be used as a stand-alone gaming router or be added to a mesh system.
Your internet speed is primarily decided by your provider and local infrastructure. However, a better router can offer many features that remove roadblocks to potentially higher speeds or make the speed you experience seem faster. If your current ISP (internet service provider) plan promises speeds that you never see on your Wi-Fi network, try a direct cable connection and run speed tests again. If your speed noticeably improves via a wired connection, that means a better router is more likely to increase your speeds, too.
Even if your broadband speeds never get even close to what's promised by a Wi-Fi 6 router, there are still several advantages to upgrading. The technology delivers more bandwidth to each device that's connected, helping to ensure that local transfers aren't interrupted, and lag is less of a problem. Latency is also reduced, which is a benefit for responsive gaming and augmented reality and virtual reality applications. You can also connect more devices to your network, which will help owners expand their collection of smart home gadgets.
Gaming routers include software that can identify and prioritize gaming connections so they get the bandwidth they need to avoid lag or graphics issues. Some also work to connect to closer servers so that server issues are less likely to occur. These features are not necessary for a satisfactory wireless gaming experience, but if that's what you use Wi-Fi for, then they are certainly worth looking into. Our Netgear Nighthawk Pro Gaming XR500 pick is a great place to start, but there are other gaming routers at a variety of price levels.
This more advanced version offers support for the 6GHz band, a new section of frequencies now designated for Wi-Fi. It's a short-range band that is more useful for environments with many wireless devices, such as an office or tech store, but not especially important for low-density areas.
They can, but the sheer number of antennas on a router isn't the only thing that matters. If your Wi-Fi is spotty, try angling antennas toward your dead zones to see if that helps. On today's routers, it's often the overall placement (how high the router is, if it's next to any walls or appliances, etc.), and the beamforming software inside that makes as much or more difference than antennas. That's another reason more routers are using durable wing designs, and why mesh routers rarely have antennas at all.
Firewalls are common features on today's routers. These are security filters that block suspicious data from arriving at your device from the internet. A firewall on router software can monitor all the data entering your Wi-Fi, no matter what device it goes to, so it's very efficient. The firewall on your computer only monitors the data coming to that computer.
Router firewalls may also cause some problems in smart homes or with certain mobile apps, etc., so you should be careful using them.
Is your router not acting as you'd hoped? You may want to go through our list of the most common Wi-Fi problems and what solutions can work for you.
Editors' Recommendations Best router Black Friday deals on mesh networks and Wi-Fi 6 routers 10 best laptops of 2023: tested and reviewed These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 One of our favorite mesh Wi-Fi systems is 30% off right now The best OLED monitors you can buy in 2023 Smart Home Best Products Computing Even while facing downAMD's Ryzen 7000 processors, Intel has come out on top with its Raptor Lake CPUs. The best Intel processor you can buy right now is the Core i5-13600K, but in a strange change of pace, Intel has several excellent options on the market right now.
From high-end gaming CPUs to some recent 12th-generation CPUs that are under $100, Intel has a compelling option at just about every price point. The AMD versus Intel war rages on, but for fans of Team Blue, these are the best Intel CPUs you can buy today.
Computing Although they've caught some flak over the years, Chromebooks provide a lightweight OS that Windows and Mac can't touch, offering an incredibly convenient and functional experience with much lower system requirements. We've reviewed hundreds of the best laptops over the years, testing for important qualities like performance, battery life, and display quality. And we've found that Chromebooks consistently excel at performance and reliability. You can find Chromebooks from Google, HP, Lenovo, Acer, and many others, and we've dug through them to find the best Chromebooks on the market.
The Chromebook laptops we've assembled here are something special. They offer solid performance, excellent functionality, and enough diversity to handle just about any need. Read on to see which models you should consider and maybe even acquire for yourself.
Computing With Apple's introduction of the latest M2 MacBook models, it's time to take another look at which is the best MacBook to buy in 2023. That's not always easy, though, as buying the newest MacBook isn't always the right decision. Apple has several tiers of performance, as well as various sizes, which can complicate the matter.
There are several MacBook models available, designated MacBook Air or MacBook Pro, with varying memory and storage configurations, as well as four kinds of processors, providing a wide selection to choose from.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
