Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products The best outdoor speakers By Michael Bizzaco and Parker Hall Close We’ve looked at numerous options for speakers designed for outdoor use, and the Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 is our choice as the best all-around. With a winning trifecta of incredible sound, a diehard battery, and a rugged design that is ideal for crowd-pleasing, it’s the clear standout in a sea of speakers.
Best outdoor speakers at a glance Best outdoor speaker: Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 Best outdoor speaker under $100: JBL Flip 4 Best outdoor speaker for pools or the beach: Ultimate Ears Wonderboom Best portable speaker for voice assistants: Bose Portable Home Speaker Best HiFi outdoor speaker: Klipsch AWR-650-SM Best outdoor speaker for bass: Anker Soundcore Motion+ Research and buying tips There are plenty of other good choices on our list, which we chose after hundreds of hours evaluating key criteria like sound quality, portability, water and dust resistance, ruggedness, battery life, ease of use, and, of course, value. We also considered scenarios like permanent wired installations and times when a portable speaker would be preferable. Follow below to find the best outdoor speakers for any situation.
Best outdoor speakers at a glance Best outdoor speaker: Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 Best outdoor speaker under $100: JBL Flip 4 Best outdoor speaker for pools or the beach: Ultimate Ears Wonderboom Best outdoor speaker for smart features: Bose Portable Home Speaker Best HiFi outdoor speaker: Klipsch AWR-650-SM Best outdoor speaker for bass: Anker SoundCore Motion+ Bluetooth Speaker Best outdoor speaker: Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Why you should buy it: You’re on the hunt for a speaker that offers the perfect blend of sound quality, battery life, and rugged durability.
Best cheap headphones and earbuds 2023: Jabra, 1More, and others Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 Who’s it for: Those who don’t mind paying extra for a tough, go-anywhere speaker that also sounds fantastic.
Why we picked the Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 If you want something to really pump up your next pool party, and you’ve got some cash to burn, the Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 is the ticket. The speaker improves on its less “mega” little brother, the UE Boom 2, with boosted bass response, excellent battery life, and an exterior shell that can take a beating and keep the tunes bumping.
Like most Bluetooth speakers, the Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 has extras like an onboard speaker phone and a charging port for your smartphone , and it also has a class-leading wireless range of up to 100 feet. It’s a bit spendy for a rugged Bluetooth speaker, but its mixture of excellent sound and plenty of extras, including up to 20 hours of battery run time, makes this one of the best outdoor speakers around.
Read our full Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 review Best outdoor speaker under $100: JBL Flip 4 Bill Roberson/Digital Trends Why you should buy it: You want a small, powerful, waterproof speaker, and don’t want to pay through the nose.
Who’s it for: Everyone from outdoor adventurers to poolside loungers.
Why we picked the JBL Flip 4: Making an outdoor speaker both good, and affordable is one thing. Making it robust enough to deal with the demands of outdoor activities, while not compromising the first two qualities? That’s impressive, which is why we picked the JBL Flip 4.
With a fun, (or possibly frustrating) ability to be linked to two phones simultaneously, the Flip 4 is waterproofed with an IPX7 rating, so it’s guaranteed pool-worthy. Battery life, while not massive at 12 hours, is still plenty for an entire day’s worth of tunes.
Its sound won’t compete with the MegaBoom 3, but considering it’s much cheaper price point, that’s not surprising. The key is that — despite its low price — it doesn’t sound like an inexpensive speaker, as it can get plenty loud, and manages to do so without overpowering either the low or high ends. All of that for a speaker in sub-$100 territory makes the JBL Flip 4 a very solid choice.
Read our full JBL Flip 4 review Best outdoor speaker for pools or the beach: Ultimate Ears Wonderboom Image used with permission by copyright holder Why you should buy it: You’re looking for tiny a ball of sound to revolve around your floating recliner.
Who’s it for : Those who don’t want to give up their tunes, even in the pool or on the lake.
Why we picked the Ultimate Ears Wonderboom: The perfect listening companion for the water-bound among us comes in the form of the softball-sized Ultimate Ears Wonderboom. A floating sphere of sound that can be fully submerged in 3 feet of water for 30 minutes, the Wonderboom is also perfect for the clumsy among us. Along with being waterproof, the speaker is shock resistant and able to withstand falls up to five feet without issue. Dual 40mm drivers take your music to a relatively powerful 86dB — about the volume of a home blender — meaning you’ll never be away from your favorite tunes, even among the excitable shouts of children in the water.
Read our full Ultimate Ears Wonderboom review Best portable speaker for voice assistants: Bose Portable Home Speaker Image used with permission by copyright holder Why you should buy it: You’re eager to incorporate Alexa or Google Assistant into your portable listening experience.
Who’s it for: Those who want impressive sound, reliable performance, and smart capabilities.
Why we picked the Bose Portable Home Speaker: Bose continues its tradition of powerful sound and cutting-edge features with this IPX4-rated speaker. Delivering 360 degrees of rich audio, the Portable Home Speaker is a solid contender for any patio lunch, a round of backyard croquet, or ambient tunes for those days when you just want to lounge around the house.
The rechargeable battery lasts for up to 12 hours, so you can blast tunes all day and charge all night. Assuming you’re within Wi-Fi range, you can also link and control the speaker with both Alexa and Google Assistant, allowing you to quickly stream your favorite playlist, set a timer, or tap into your local weather report, among other things. The Portable Home Speaker is a part of Bose’s larger smart-home family, too, which means you can pair and group the device with other Bose SoundLink products, including both stand-alone speakers and home theater soundbars.
Read our full Bose Portable Home Speaker review Best HiFi outdoor speaker: Klipsch AWR-650-SM Image used with permission by copyright holder Why you should buy it: You’ve just finished landscaping your backyard paradise, but you’re missing the music.
Who’s it for : Those who want to jam out in their yard, but don’t want unsightly speakers getting in the way of the natural aesthetic.
Why we picked the Klipsch AWR-650-SM: If you’re looking for high-quality sound that doesn’t obstruct your view, there’s perhaps no better choice in the outdoor market than the cleverly disguised AWR-650-SM from Klipsch.
 Yard-ready audio devices designed to look like large rocks, the ARW-650-SM comes in both granite and sandstone colors. Each speaker features dual 3/4-inch tweeters and dual 6.5-inch woofers, delivering dynamic audio to every corner of your yard. And of course, Klipsch claims each speaker is weather- and UV-resistant for long-term use.
The Klipsch AWR-650-SM must be wired to a dedicated or dual-zone amplifier or receiver, and those looking to set up a pair for long-term listening may want to hire a professional contractor to properly install them. Still, if you’re looking for powerful sound that appears to come from nowhere — and you don’t need to take your favorite tunes with you on the go — these are a fantastic option.
Best outdoor speaker for bass: Anker Soundcore Motion+ Image used with permission by copyright holder Why you should buy it: It’s tough as nails and delivers a big, boomy sound in a package that’s still highly portable.
Who’s it for: Those who want big bass in an outdoor speaker that’s nearly indestructible.
Why we picked the Anker SoundCore Motion+ Bluetooth Speaker: The SoundCore Motion+ is sure to satisfy even the most stringent of outdoor audiophiles. Powered by the Qualcomm aptX and High-Res Audio codecs, the Motion+ performs more like a mighty home-theater rig than a portable speaker. For those seeking the rumbles of a premium sub, the Anker Soundcore Motion+ has got you covered there, too. Harnessing Anker’s advanced DSP processing and high-grade neodymium woofers, bass sounds amazing at both high and low volumes, and is only further enhanced by Anker’s onboard BassUp technology. The IPX7 waterproof shell just means you can rock out by the poolside without worrying about your speaker getting wet, and the battery features a 12-hour runtime, perfect for those long summer nights.
Research and buying tips Will outdoor speakers work with a TV or projector? Are outdoor speakers suitable for a RV? Can I use outdoor speakers inside? What if I want outdoor speakers to match my landscaping? Can outdoor speakers be mounted? Will outdoor speakers work with a TV or projector? Yes, but we only recommend wired models for this task. Wired outdoor speakers are no different than their indoor siblings: If you connect them to an A/V receiver that is also connected to a TV or projector, you’ll get the same great sound. Bluetooth outdoor speakers could also work in theory, but there are two major drawbacks.
The first is finding a way to connect them to your source. Most TVs and projectors do not support Bluetooth audio natively, which means you’ll need to buy an external Bluetooth stereo gateway.
Also, even if you successfully pair your Bluetooth speaker this way, be prepared for some noticeable lag between what you see and what you hear. It’s not a problem when listening to Spotify, but brutal when watching actors speak their lines.
Are outdoor speakers suitable for an RV? Portable outdoor speakers with built-in batteries are a great solution for life in an RV. Their go-anywhere design and weather-proof hardware are ideal for road trips of any length. We don’t recommend wired outdoor speakers unless your RV has a compatible sound system.
Can I use outdoor speakers inside? Absolutely. Outdoor speakers are really just indoor speakers that have had their components ruggedized, and/or sealed against water and dust. They will perform just fine indoors, but keep in mind, it’s unlikely that a $200 outdoor speaker will sound as good inside as a $200 indoor speaker. All of that extra weatherproofing is expensive, and the manufacturer may have compromised on audio quality in favor of versatility.
What if I want my outdoor speakers to match my landscaping? No problem! There are lots of wired outdoor speakers disguised as rocks and other landscaping features, to help them blend seamlessly into your yard. The Klipsch AWR-650-SM speakers we list above are a great example, but there are many others, too. You will even come across wireless models like this one made by Ion , but we think most people will be happier with wired models, because of their greater power and superior sound.
Can outdoor speakers be mounted? Yes, but this is a feature most commonly found on wired outdoor speakers. Wireless models, because of their flexibility of placement, are rarely designed to be mounted to a surface.
Editors' Recommendations HDMI ARC or digital optical: what’s the difference, and which is best for you? Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more Best 75-inch TV deals: Get a large screen for under $500 The best soundbars of 2023: a sound upgrade for your TV Buying Guides Outdoors Buying Guides Audio / Video The best speakers come in all shapes and sizes, but if you’re looking for the Goldilocks middle-ground between “bite-sized” and “monolithic,” we’re betting that a solid set of bookshelf speakers will fit the bill. As the name indicates, these are speakers that are usually no taller than a foot or two, making them ideal for placing on, er, bookshelves, speaker stands, and even certain types of wall mounts.
But like all things audio, not every set of bookshelf speakers is created equal. There are speaker brands and models that sell for less than $150, and flagship brands that will run you over $2,000. There are also some bookshelf speakers that are best used for computer setups, while others are best relegated to the back of a surround sound system.
Audio / Video Noise-canceling headphones are a wonder of the modern world. No, seriously, the tech that makes them work is borderline magical, bringing much-needed quiet to our everyday bus and plane rides, study and work sessions, and movie, music, and podcast enjoyment. The best noise canceling headphones have a great mix of features, including that all-important ANC, transparency mode for letting in some outside sounds, comfort, battery life, and, of course, price.
While active noise cancellation has been around for a while now and it's almost standard in headphones from over-ear models (our focus here) to earbuds, the feature is better in some types of devices than in others. Whatever your listening needs may be, though, we've got you covered.
Audio / Video Going for a swim is one of the best ways to cool down and get your cardio in, and for avid swimmers out there, adding music to the proceedings is a must. But just because a pair of wireless earbuds or headphones is waterproof, it doesn't mean they're necessarily suited for swimming. They way it stands right now, Bluetooth signals do not travel well under water, especially if your device is situated poolside. For that reason, the best headphones for swimming on this list include wired models, those that have their own internal storage for loading them with music files, a pair with a unique radio transmitter, and one Bluetooth pair that works with an Apple Watch that you take in the pool with you.
Some of these models are from familiar audio brands, and while they may not be the pinnacle of sound underwater (which can be difficult), these are headphones and earbuds that, above all else, are going to withstand your laps in the pool. But we’re not content with just satisfying the basics, so each and every pick on our list is also going to sound good enough to motivate your swim and give you the kind of battery life you need for all your diving and dunking needs. Let's check them out.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
