Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Bluesound Pulse M review: precision sound for any room By Simon Cohen Close $449.00 Tons of inputs Wired/wireless headphones capable Crystal-clear sound Plenty of app-based controls Lossless, 24-bit/192kHz support Pricey for its size No built-in voice assistants Missing support for some major services When it comes to multiroom audio, the undisputed king is Sonos.
 But discerning music listeners will tell you it’s not the only game in town.
Canada-based Bluesound has been quietly competing with Sonos for years, largely on the promise of better sound quality. Its latest product, the $449 Pulse M , is a compact speaker that can take on a variety of duties. You can use it on its own, use two of them as a stereo pair, or make them the surround channels of a much larger Bluesound home theater system.
The Canadian company that owns NAD and Bluesound now owns MQA Android users are about to lose a handy Sonos feature Bluetooth bandwidth set to double, opening a path for video and lossless audio But when you consider the Pulse M’s strengths, as well as its weaknesses, is it truly a Sonos rival? Let’s check it out.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Design-wise, the Pulse M looks a little like the portable $399 Sonos Move (though shorter because it lacks the Move’s giant battery), and its oval size and shape is also reminiscent of the $379 Bose Smart Speaker 500 (previously known as the Home Speaker 500). And just like those products, the Pulse M comes in two color choices; black or white.
With its gentle curves, satin-finish plastic, and fabric grille, you’ll have no problem integrating it into almost any room or decor, but you may want to avoid sticking it on a shelf. The Pulse M has an internal woofer and two tweeters — these are angled outward at 45 degrees, giving it the ability to reproduce stereo — but placing barriers beside the speaker could prevent it from sounding its best. The Sonos Move can automatically re-tune itself when you change its location; the Pulse M can’t.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends A set of touch controls for playback, volume, and five favorite presets adorn the top panel. These stay dark until they sense your hand approach, which is a fun trick. But you may want to resist actually using those controls — the surface has a glossy finish that quickly becomes a mess of oily fingerprints, especially if you get it in black.
In an era of ubiquitous smart voice assistants, Bluesound has opted to take a balanced approach. The Pulse M is not a smart speaker — there are no onboard mics — but it does play nice with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple’s Siri if you already have one or more of these smart speakers in your home. That’s a pretty big contrast to both Bose and Sonos, which have been integrating full smart speaker functionality into an increasing number of their products.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Where the Pulse M really stands apart on the hardware front (beyond its driver setup, which I’ll talk about in a moment), is its impressive support for accessories. On the back panel, right above the power input, you’ll find a gigabit Ethernet jack, a USB-A port, a 3.5mm headphone jack, and a combo 3.5mm analog/digital optical input (there’s an adapter in the box if you need one). When you tack on the speaker’s ability to accept dual Bluetooth connections for audio input and output (with aptX HD on tap as a bonus), it absolutely crushes any other multiroom speaker at this price. I genuinely don’t know how often folks will want or need to use these connections. But if they matter to you, they’re kind of a big deal — you won’t find this level of flexibility on any Sonos or Bose product. Better yet, anything that’s connected to these inputs can be shared across any other Bluesound products you may have in your home.
The entire Bluesound family of connected speakers is known for its comprehensive support for a huge variety of both lossy and lossless audio formats.
 These include FLAC, WAV, AIFF, and also MQA , which Tidal uses for its highest-resolution Masters tracks. Combined with support for lossless hi-res audio up to 24-bit/192kHz, it’s easy to see why the audiophile community has embraced Bluesound over Sonos and Bose, which have largely ignored these kinds of audio sources. Audiophiles may be the only ones that care, but not only can the Pulse M process hi-res audio, it can also render the full frequency response of 20Hz to 40kHz defined as “hi-res.” In order to get that 24/192 support, you’ll need to stream from a music source that’s supported within the BluOS app. It’s a generous list — second only to Sonos in its size — and includes some top hi-res and lossless services like Tidal, Amazon Music, and Qobuz. But it’s still missing some major players: Apple Music, YouTube Music, Pandora, and Soundcloud, to name the biggest. The only way to stream these services is to use their native apps on your phone and then connect to the Pulse M via AirPlay if you use an Apple device, or Bluetooth if you’re on Android (Bluesound speakers don’t support Chromecast built-in). Neither of these streaming protocols supports hi-res lossless audio, though AirPlay can certainly handle CD-quality lossless.
Again, perhaps only audiophiles will care about those details. After all, CD quality sounds pretty darn good. Still, there are practical reasons for wanting your favorite streaming service to work inside the BluOS app — the biggest being that it lets all members of your family access and control that music without needing the music service app on their phone, or their own subscription. It also lets everyone create their own BluOS favorites and playlists that are independent of the ones you create inside the music service.
When it comes to managing BluOS speakers and components, the BluOS app is a powerhouse. There are layers upon layers of settings, for everything from gain control on tracks and albums, to adjusting bass and treble EQ, to being able to name your optical and analog inputs. Honestly, it can be overwhelming at times. There’s just so much going on — even for someone who reviews these kinds of products for a living.
Still, once you get used to where everything lives, you feel like there’s nothing you can’t do with it, and on my iPhone 14 it was very fast and responsive, even when cruising through hundreds of albums on my NAS drive. If I’ve got one complaint it’s that there’s no universal search. To find the music you want, you first have to choose the source. Once you do, you can use the built-in search feature to quickly find what you want, but if it’s not there, you’ll have to repeat the process inside each source. Sonos’ universal search is far better for those of us with scattered brains and low levels of patience.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends OK, enough about the tech. How does this speaker sound? Impressive. Bluesound, with its roots in the audiophile worlds of PSB and NAD (two of its sister brands) has a reputation for delivering flat (or neutral) EQ and the kind of power you can crank to its limits without worrying about distortion. The Pulse M stays true to that tradition, with an absolutely razor-sharp high end that is incredibly clear and a surprisingly beefy bass for its size.
You’ll want to listen to this speaker at 50% volume or louder for a true appreciation of its capabilities. At lower volumes, bass tends to get suppressed, leaving you wanting more. But turn it up and you will be rewarded with fantastic details.
The twang of Mark Knopfler’s guitar in Dire Straits’ Six Blade Knife slices through the air, and Billie Eilish’s whispery vocals on Bad Guy are never once muddied or hidden by that song’s throbbing bass line.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends However, the Pulse M’s emphasis on higher frequencies can be, at times, too much for me. Listening to bbno$’s edamame was uncomfortable, as the crystalline highs became piercing instead of pleasing. You can manage this to an extent with the Pulse M’s tone controls, but I still found myself wishing for a bit more midtone presence to balance it all out.
Those angled tweeters I mentioned earlier do exactly what you’d expect, projecting sound outward in a wide soundstage that is far more immersive than both the Sonos Move and the Bose Smart Speaker 500. Whether you’ll hear a genuine stereo image might depend on where you place it. I found that if I put it near a corner of a room (but not deep in the corner), that helped a lot, whereas a more central location tended to reduce the effect.
$449 may be a lot to spend on a smallish speaker, especially when you consider your other choices, but those who are intensely critical in their listening experiences (you know who you are), will enjoy the Pulse M’s sound far more than similar offerings from Sonos and Bose.
If you’re looking for a compact speaker that delivers reference-quality sound and the ability to work with a huge number of lossless, hi-res audio sources either on its own or as part of a larger, multiroom setup, the Bluesound Pulse M should fit the bill nicely.
Editors' Recommendations Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Best wireless speakers for 2023: Sonos, Apple, KEF, and more Bluesound gives its Node streamer a new DAC/headphone amp for its 10th birthday $2,199 Hed Unity Wi-Fi headphones are the first to offer lossless hi-res audio What is Sonos? What you need to know about the wireless music system Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Audio / Video Imagine someone spending $150,000 on a Porsche that had no speedometer. “This fine sports car can do zero to 60 in under three seconds.” Uh, how do I know? “Doesn’t it feel fast when you drive it? Trust us, it’s under three seconds.” Probably wouldn’t fly, would it? And yet, this unlikely scenario is exactly what’s happening in the world of wireless audio.
Audio / Video Lenbrook International, the company that creates BluOS, says that the software is going to get a major update in the spring, to version 4.0. BluOS controls wireless speakers from Bluesound, as well as a variety of audio gear from NAD, Dali, and PSB. The change will bring a cleaner look to the interface, as well as several enhancements to how the app works.
“BluOS 4.0 brings added depth to personalized, multiroom hi-res listening,” said Andrew Haines, BluOS product manager, in an emailed press release. “This comprehensive redesign of the mobile app interface reflects a commitment to delivering seamless user experiences for BluOS users.” Audio / Video If you've got a hi-fi system you love, but it doesn't speak Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, AirPlay, or any other wireless streaming languages, NAD's new CS1 Endpoint Network Streamer ($349) provides a super-simple and compact upgrade.
The London, England-founded, Canadian-based company, announced the compact audiophile-grade component today that allows you to add streaming capabilities to pretty much any music system. The CS1 can play high-res audio at up to 24-bit/192kHz (with its internal DAC also supporting MQA decoding) via various sources, with connectivity options that include Bluetooth 5.0, dual-band Wi-Fi, and Ethernet, and features support for Apple AirPlay 2, GoogleCast, Spotify Connect, Tidal Connect, and Roon. Through Bluetooth, however, you can stream music from any app from a smartphone, computer, or tablet, opening up the playback options.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
