Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Denon unveils Denon Home: Three new wireless multiroom speakers By Simon Cohen Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Japanese audio company Denon has revealed a system of three wireless multiroom speakers called Denon Home: The $249 Denon Home 150, $499 Denon Home 250, and the $699 Denon Home 350. Each model is compatible with Denon’s HEOS Wi-Fi audio platform and can play hi-res audio files.
AirPlay 2 and Bluetooth round out the speakers’ wireless connections. The new models will go on sale in the first quarter of 2020, though no specific release date has been shared.
Intriguingly, all three models of Denon Home speakers will come equipped with two microphones for future voice assistant support. However, these microphones will be disabled and not functional until a future software update is available, according to the company. Denon has not yet indicated which voice assistants will be compatible with these new speakers.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Streaming music support for the Denon Home speakers is accessed from within the Denon HEOS app, and includes Amazon Music HD , Spotify, Apple Music , Pandora, Tidal , and others. Available in either black or white, each speaker is equipped with a USB port to access and share audio files from thumb drives or external hard drives. There’s also an analog auxiliary input. The Denon Home models can be controlled and grouped with other Denon products with HEOS built-in.
The speakers can also be set up as a stereo pair (with a second matching unit) or as a pair of 5.1 surrounds when paired with Denon’s DHT-S716H soundbar and DSW-1H subwoofer.
Astell&Kern’s new headphone DAC is PlayStation-ready Dali says its latest wireless headphones achieve electrostatic levels of clarity Tivoli Audio’s Model Two Digital speaker abandons terrestrial radio In many ways, the Denon Home speakers appear to be new versions of the company’s HEOS line of wireless speakers.
 Though considerably more conservative-looking than the stylized HEOS line, functionality is almost identical. With the addition of future smart speaker capabilities, Denon is hoping to compete with brands like Sonos, Bose , Amazon , and Riva , all of which have launched their own wireless multiroom speakers with built-in voice assistant access — something the HEOS line hasn’t offered. However, Denon tells us the Denon Home is not going to replace the HEOS line, despite the similarities.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Beyond their shared attributes described above, as the model numbers and prices suggest, each Denon Home speaker is sized for different uses. The range-topping 350 has two tweeters, two midrange drivers, and two woofers, all driven by a six-channel amp. Atop the speaker are touch controls for music playback and volume, plus six preset buttons that can be assigned to your favorite streaming radio stations.
The midsize 250 gets two tweeters, two mid-bass drivers and a single woofer, along with three preset buttons. The 150 has a single tweeter and woofer, also with three presets.
Denon initially expanded its HEOS line of wireless speakers aggressively, giving Sonos a run for its money. But since 2017, there hasn’t been much in the way of new products, while Sonos has slowly but surely launched new speakers and components every year, including its most recent major effort, the fully portable Sonos Move.
Editors' Recommendations Klipsch takes on Marshall with three new portable and rugged Bluetooth speakers Sonus Faber’s Duetto are the first wireless speakers to use UWB New Klipsch tabletop wireless speakers are a more affordable, capable take on mid-century modern B&O’s Beolab 8 wireless speaker uses AirTag tech to track you JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans News Tech News Audio / Video Dolby Labs has a new home theater technology called Dolby Atmos FlexConnect. The company says it will let people with a compatible TV place wireless speakers anywhere that's convenient, and the TV's built-in microphones will automatically calibrate them to work with the TV's speakers while ensuring the whole setup produces optimal sound. The technology will make its debut in the 2024 TCL X955 QD mini-LED 4K TV, but Dolby anticipates that other companies will also announce support for Dolby Atmos FlexConnect.
Because Dolby Atmos FlexConnect works wirelessly and uses a compatible TV's built-in hardware and software, you'll be able to set up a Dolby Atmos audio system that doesn't require a soundbar or AV receiver as its central unit and doesn't need an HDMI cable to send an audio signal to an external device.
Audio / Video When Tidal CEO Jesse Dorogusker announced in April 2023 that the music service would soon be adding lossless hi-res audio in the open-source FLAC format, a lot of folks cheered the move. And by a lot of folks, I mean audiophiles who have never been happy with Tidal's decision to use the controversial MQA format as its sole better-than-CD quality option. Right or wrong, it looked like the addition of hi-res FLAC would be the perfect compromise: when available, a listener could hear the FLAC version of their favorite track, and Tidal seemed to indicate that it will be keeping MQA as well, which made this seem like a win for all concerned.
But that's not what has happened.
Audio / Video Skullcandy, well-known for its range of affordable and colorful headphones and earbuds, is throwing its hat into the compact Bluetooth speaker ring with a new lineup of waterproof speakers that boast some impressive battery life and that range in price from just $30 to $80.
With summer in full swing, Skullcandy's got eyes on poolside parties and camping trips with its first attempt at the price-conscious Bluetooth speaker crowd that includes five new cleverly-named devices that start with the basic Ounce ($30) and Kilo ($40) models before moving into the slightly more feature-rich Terrain Mini ($40), Terrain ($60), and the biggest in the line, the Terrain XL ($80).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
