Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products FLAC vs. MP3 FLAC vs. MP3: Which format should you use and when should you use it? By Kris Wouk Close Ever wonder what the differences are between the FLAC audio format and the MP3 format? Why are FLAC format files typically larger? What sounds are affected by compression? Is the MP3 format is better than the FLAC format when it comes to sound? If you spend enough time reading up on digital audio — and it probably doesn’t take that long — chances are nearly 100 percent that you’ll encounter someone extolling the virtues of the FLAC format while claiming that MP3 files are a crime against music. Whether this level of hyperbole has you clamoring to learn more or run screaming, there are some important differences between the two formats, and it goes beyond which one is objectively “better.” Different types of compression When you should use FLAC When you should use MP3s Conclusion We’re here to break down the strengths and weaknesses of the two for you and explain when you want to use one instead of the other. Before we move on, it’s best to start by explaining the main difference between the two: It all comes down to compression.
Different types of compression FLAC and MP3 take radically different approaches to compression. FLAC uses what is known as lossless compression, where MP3 uses lossy compression. Both of these have their uses, and the implications go beyond audio.
What is an audio codec? A jargon-free explainer ATSC 3.0: Everything you need to know about broadcast TV’s next big thing Netflix vs. Amazon Prime Video Lossy If you’ve seen an image on the internet — and clearly you have because there are some in this very article — you’ve seen lossy compression in use.
 Lossy compression gives you smaller file sizes because it is essentially throwing away parts of the image that you don’t need to see. You can take a larger photo and shrink it to a smaller size, but you can’t ever scale it back up to the original size because those parts that were tossed away are gone forever.
Bowers & Wilkins If you take an MP3 and convert it into a standard WAV file, all the parts that went missing during the compression process are still missing. If you convert that file back to MP3 and then to WAV again, you’ll generally find even more parts missing.
Lossless Unlike lossy compression, lossless compression can give you the original, uncompressed file. Like a ZIP file that gives you a folder full of files on your computer, lossless compression is shrinking the overall size of the package without getting rid of anything in the process. Unlike an MP3, a compressed FLAC file can be restored to its original WAV format fully intact.
When you should use FLAC Just because FLAC keeps all the audio information of the original file it was converted from, that doesn’t mean it’s the best to use at all times. Where FLAC really shines is for archiving music. Are you looking to rip your CDs to a hard drive then box them up in your attic or garage? FLAC is where you want to go because if you ever want to burn a CD with a few songs, for example, you’ll have all the audio fidelity of the original CD.
Astell & Kern AK320 Ryan Waniata/Digital Trends Just beware: FLAC files use more space than an MP3, so you’ll need plenty of storage. It’s for this reason that you might not want to opt for FLAC if you’re using a laptop with 128GB of storage and want to save room for apps, photos, and other files. You can always convert your FLAC files to MP3 to use with devices with limited storage or those that don’t support FLAC. More and more devices and operating systems are adding support for FLAC , but you might need a standalone app to play files depending on the device.
When you should use MP3s Because MP3s don’t retain the full quality of the original, they’re not an ideal choice for archiving your music. They can work in a pinch, but if you burn a CD of songs in the MP3 format, the overall fidelity will be less than the CDs you ripped them from. You might not hear the difference, but it will be there.
If you’ve invested in a high-resolution audio player or have a high-quality DAC and amp, you probably want to use FLAC.
Speaking of hearing a difference, you’ll be glad to know that the bad old days of MP3s with clearly audible artifacts and swishy sounding cymbals are largely behind us. Tech has advanced, and as long as you’re encoding at a fairly high bitrate like 320 kbps, the sound will be very similar to the original, to the point that some people (some might even say most people) won’t be able to distinguish between the two.
If all you’re doing is listening on your laptop or your phone, MP3 should be fine. If you’ve invested in a high-resolution audio player like those sold by Astell & Kern and other companies, or if you have a high-quality digital-to-analog converter (DAC) and headphone amp , you probably want to encode in FLAC or another lossless format. Otherwise, you’ve just spent a bunch of money on a Ferrari only to drive it around a parking lot.
Conclusion If you’re looking to preserve your CD collection with the knowledge that you may want to convert it later, there is a clear answer to which format is best for you. The same is true if you want to cram as much music as possible onto your phone with 32GB of storage. Your choice should serve your needs. The issue gets a little more complicated when you’re looking at buying new music, especially depending on the bitrate, but you can always compress a file more.
 That can’t be done the other way around.
Once your music collection is ripped to flawless FLAC and you’re ready to listen back, be sure to take a look at our list of the best headphones you can buy to make the most out of your music library.
Editors' Recommendations Fire TV Stick vs. Fire TV Stick 4K Max vs. Fire TV Cube: Which to buy? Best MP3 players: a great music streamer for everyone The best on-demand streaming services Apple AirPods 3 vs. Samsung Galaxy Buds 2 Sonos Beam vs. Sonos Playbar Audio / Video Buying a new TV can be a fun-filled adventure -- but also an agonizing nightmare. In stores and online, you're bombarded with terms like HDR, OLED, QLED, 4K Ultra HD and Full HD. But what do they mean? Well, the latter two are resolutions, and they're used to indicate the number of pixels on a screen. As far as TV lingo goes, the more pixels there are, the better the picture quality. To understand why, though, we have to look at each resolution a bit more closely. Only then can you start considering what screen size is best and finally start taking a look at our list of the best 4K TVs to find the television of your dreams.
Pixels Pixels are the building blocks for every display you've ever seen. They're tiny little dots that, together, make up the picture you see on a screen. You can only see these pixels if you're fairly close to the screen, of course. From a proper viewing distance, thousands of them blend to make the image on your screen.
Resolutions 720p A 720p resolution television has 1,280 columns and 720 rows of pixels, hence "720p." Multiply the two numbers for a total of 921,600 pixels. This is the minimum TV resolution that can be called "high definition," or HDTV.
1080p Often, 1080p is referred to as "Full HD." In a 1080p television, there are 1,920 columns multiplied by 1,080 rows for a total of 2,073,600 pixels -- more than twice as many pixels as you'll find in a 720p TV screen. For a while now, 1080p has been the industry standard for high-definition displays, and most content (that is, television broadcasts, shows, and movies) is produced and distributed in 1080p.
4K Ultra HD The next level of HD is 4K -- often called "Ultra HD" or UHD. Technically, the name is a bit of a misnomer because there are 3,840 columns and 2,160 rows of pixels that make up a 4K TV screen, which is why you'll occasionally see this resolution referred to as 2160p. That's a total of 8,294,400 pixels, which is four times as many pixels as a Full HD 1080p display and nine times as many pixels as a 720p display. This is considered a high pixel density.
Smart Home Google has made a permanent mark in the world of smart speakers and displays. With options including the Google Nest Audio, Google Nest Mini, Google Home, Google Home Mini, Google Home Max, Google Nest Hub, and Google Nest Hub Max, there's a device to serve every need, whether you need a control hub for your home's smart ecosystem, or you're just looking for a quality speaker to blast your tunes from.
Each of these products features the Google Assistant voice assistant and allows you to make phone calls, so what it really comes down to is sound and whether you prefer a screen. Here’s what you need to know when deciding which Google device is for you.
Rectangle, puck, or ...? Google devices come in a variety of shapes and sizes. Here are the stats: Computing We live in a world where we want every movie and TV show to be available at our fingertips on every electronic device in our arsenal. Shelves chock-full of movies now seem overly cumbersome, and they're also an unnecessary waste of space that can be better used for something else. On top of that, we all know how boring a flight or train ride can be without access to a robust library of entertainment. There's more than one way to convert your spinning movie discs to a format that's compatible with a range of devices, and here to help out is our guide on how to convert a DVD to MP4.
The process is easy whether you're using the latest version of Windows or MacOS Mojave. Keep in mind, though, that reproducing copyrighted material is illegal.
Movavi Video Converter Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
