Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Ikea Symfonisk Table Lamp Gen 2 hands-on review: More light, more sound By Simon Cohen Close $179.00 I’m still not convinced that putting a wireless Sonos speaker in the base of a table lamp is a great idea, but if you want to disguise the source of your music, the new version of Ikea’s Symfonisk Table Lamp is probably the easiest and most affordable way to do so.
Bye-bye, mushroom Hidden buttons More bulb options Simpler setup, thanks to Sonos Round sound The verdict Here’s a quick look at this quirky little guy.
Bye-bye, mushroom The second-gen Ikea Symfonisk Table Lamp, with optional glass shade.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The first version of the Symfonisk Table Lamp, which debuted alongside the Symfonisk Bookshelf Speaker, struck a lot of people as kinda funny-looking. The combination of the potbellied body and the bulbous, frosted glass lampshade gave it a mushroom-like look, and it reminded me a lot of Sackboy , the protagonist in Sony’s LittleBigPlanet series of PlayStation games.
Ikea’s new Symfonisk Table Lamp speaker lets you mix and match lampshades Ikea’s $199 Symfonisk Picture Frame Speaker lets you hang your tunes on a wall Tivoli Model One Digital radio hands-on review: Small changes, big difference Ikea apparently took careful note of this reaction and has given the second-gen lamp a more sophisticated (read: more conservative) design. The plastic saucer that housed the play controls on the first version is gone. The base is wider yet shorter, and the frosted lampshade has been replaced with two new options: A large, two-piece hurricane-style glass shade and a fabric shade. Our black review unit was accompanied by the glass shade option.
The original Symfonisk Table Lamp.
Ikea Ikea also saw fit to delete the almost comically large plastic knob that protruded from the side of the original. It looked like it was both an on/off switch and a dimmer for the light bulb — but it only switched the light on and off. It’s been replaced by an almost invisible electronic button at the very bottom of the base. It’s a much cleaner look, but it comes with a small penalty. The original knob had two physical positions. If you had it in the “on” position and there was a power outage, as soon as the power came back, the light bulb would turn back on.
Ikea But the new version doesn’t have that physically locked-in mode. A power outage will turn off the whole lamp. And when the power comes back, the lamp will be in its powered-down mode. Now, you might say: “So what? Just turn it back on.” But if you use one of Ikea’s smart home Tradfri light bulbs, as the company suggests that you do, you won’t be able to control the bulb again until you walk over and physically turn it on again. That’s not very convenient.
That small annoyance notwithstanding, the result of the changes is a piece of decor that I think a lot more people will want in their homes. Instead of drawing curious glances, it simply looks like a table lamp, which after all, is the whole point.
Hidden buttons Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Those saucer-mounted play controls didn’t disappear, but they were relocated — to the backside of the base. As part of the effort to make the Table Lamp Speaker more lamp and less speaker, it works. There are virtually no telltale signs that this is anything other than a lamp. But from a usability point of view, it’s not as friendly. Unless you want to walk around to the back of the lamp (which, depending on the placement, you may not be able to do), you’ll need to use those controls by feel alone. Not that it’s hard: The shape of the buttons helps a lot, with a flat surface for play/pause/track skip, a convex surface for volume up, and a concave surface for volume down. It’s the same scheme as on the recently introduced Symfonisk Picture Frame speaker.
More bulb options Ikea also sensibly realized that the tiny candelabra light socket it put on the first version didn’t give people a lot of options in terms of light bulbs. The new E26/27 socket fits pretty much any standard bulb, though you should definitely heed the warning label: No incandescent or halogen bulbs, or you risk “SEVERE THERMAL DAMAGE.” Stick with a maximum 15-watt LED bulb and you should be fine. Ikea includes a 4.3 watt, 450-lumen LED bulb to get you started.
Simpler setup, thanks to Sonos Sonos , the brain behind the acoustic and software side of the Symfonisk lineup, has made an already dead-simple setup even easier. Plug the Table Lamp into the wall using the included, braided power cord and then fire up the Sonos S2 app. It will automatically recognize the new speaker and prompt you to finish setting it up, something that takes all of 30 seconds thanks to Sonos ’ clever use of the NFC chip inside your phone. Just tap your phone to the back of the speaker when the app tells you to, and that’s it. And iPhone users get the added benefit of AirPlay 2 built-in, which means you can skip the Sonos app entirely if you want (but don’t — the Sonos app is awesome, especially if you own more than one Sonos-compatible product).
Round sound Simon Cohen / Digital Trends From a sound point of view, the Table Lamp also has undergone another change. Neither Ikea nor Sonos has gone into great detail on the topic, but it’s impossible not to notice that the speaker produces a more diffuse, less directed sound than the first version. It was said when the original model debuted that its internals were a close match for the now-discontinued Sonos Play:1. In testing, they certainly sounded a lot alike.
But the new version doesn’t sound like the Play:1 or its replacement, the Sonos One SL. Those speakers tend to produce a focused beam of audio. Turn them away from you and their sound changes. The Table Lamp, on the other hand, is much more forgiving, with a decidedly ambient quality that spreads the sound around the room.
This is both good and not so good. The good part is that you can literally place the Table Lamp anywhere and its sound won’t change much. There’s still a front and a back, but the sound radiates in a more circular pattern. For people who only intend on having a single speaker in a given room, whether it’s a living room, office, or bedroom, this is a good thing — the new version fills your chosen space more effectively than the original. But the same acoustic properties that push the sound in more directions also reduce clarity, especially in the higher frequencies.
Ikea only sent me the one lamp to try out, so I couldn’t test stereo pairing (Sonos is very strict about this — only two acoustically identical Sonos products are allowed to be stereo-paired), but my guess is that the more open signature of the Table Lamp won’t create as precise a sense of stereo imaging. If that kind of thing matters to you, you may be better off with a set of Sonos One SLs.
Don’t take that as a heavy critique — as with all Sonos speakers, the Table Lamp still sounds really good, with a bigger and bolder presence than its size would suggest. Warm and resonant bass provides that all-important big-speaker sound, and despite a bit of muddiness in the higher end, there’s still plenty of definition in the middle and upper midranges. You can also get this thing to go really loud, with only the barest hints of distortion right at the top of the dial.
The verdict While a table lamp that doubles as a wireless speaker may not be for everyone, Ikea has made the concept more appealing by giving Symfonisk buyers more design choices and a less controversial shape. If you’re looking for an affordable way to add great sound to your home without adding visible speakers, the new Symfonisk Table Lamp is a very good solution.
Editors' Recommendations Ikea and Sonos collaborate on new Symfonisk floor lamp speaker Ikea leaks details of its next Sonos Symfonisk Table Lamp Ikea hastily removes product page for its Sonos wall art speaker Ikea gives us a closer look at its Sonos/Symfonisk wireless controller Ikea creates a physical remote control for Symfonisk and Sonos speakers Product Reviews Sonos Speaker Reviews Wireless & Bluetooth Speaker Reviews Audio / Video Previous Next Audio / Video As part of a news release celebrating IKEA's Red-Dot Design Award accomplishments for 2019, the Swedish furniture designer has published two new photos of its upcoming Symfonisk speaker, a whole-home Wi-Fi speaker built by Sonos. The photos give us yet another glimpse at what IKEA has promised will be a speaker that's priced to make it accessible to many.
The official unveiling of the Symfonisk is slated for April 9, 2019, in Milan. The new photos don't add much to what we know about Symfonisk, but given that there are only days until the unveiling, it's clear that what we're seeing is indeed the final product -- or extremely close to it -- and that earlier photos were also very representative of what we can expect in-store.
Audio / Video Prototype models of the Symfonisk Sonos There is a video from Ikea that's been making the rounds over the past few months that says the Swedish furniture company's speaker collaboration with Sonos, known as Symfonisk, will be arriving in stores in August. The video, initially discovered by Variety, runs three minutes and 17 seconds. It alternates between shots of a live orchestra playing in front of a large video screen, and shots of Ikea and Sonos product people speaking earnestly about what music means to them on the screen itself. What the video lacked, surprisingly, are any shots of the actual Symfonisk products.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
