Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Ikea Symfonisk Picture Frame review: The art of noise By Simon Cohen Close $199.00 Swappable “art” Wall or surface mounting AirPlay 2 Works with the Sonos ecosystem Power cable is ugly and awkward Can’t display your own art or photos Sound quality is average When Ikea debuted the $199 Symfonisk Picture Frame speaker (its latest wireless audio collaboration with Sonos), two things were immediately apparent: The age of affordable, customizable, and decorative home audio is upon us, and, we still haven’t found a way to eliminate our dependence on power cords.
Design Can’t kill the cord Easy setup Surprisingly good bass Our take It’s a bold idea: Try to satisfy the needs of music lovers who simultaneously hate the look of wireless speakers. Does it succeed? We put it to the test.
Ikea and Sonos collaborate on new Symfonisk floor lamp speaker Ikea launches $65 Bluetooth lantern speaker with Spotify Tap Samsung brings the Mona Lisa and other famous Louvre art to its The Frame TVs Design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Picture Frame enjoys many advantages. It doesn’t look like any speaker you’ve ever seen. Its “art” can be swapped out for several other designs for just $20, and you get lots of placement options: It can be hung on a wall vertically or horizontally, or propped against almost any flat, vertical surface the way you would with an actual picture frame.
Unlike a real picture frame, however, there’s no way to mount your own art or photos, and at the moment Ikea has no plans to offer such a capability. There’s also no plan to do custom silk-screen printing in the event that you don’t like the art that Ikea offers.
It comes with everything you need: In the fully recyclable cardboard box you’ll find the speaker, a wall-mount hook, two rubber feet, a safety tether, and a really long power cord.
If you’re going to use the Picture Frame angled against a wall, setting it up is a snap. Pop the included rubber feet into the appropriate spots in the frame depending on whether you want it to be horizontal or vertical, attach the power cord and route it through one of the many grooves and openings in the back panel, and plug the power cord into a wall socket.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Strangely, Ikea limits you to two of the possible four orientations. Instead of two horizontal options and two vertical ones, you just get one of each. This can be a tad confusing, especially since there are oval openings on all sides — making it look like the rubber feet can go anywhere, but they can’t. Two sets of these openings are just a tad too small to accommodate the feet. Why? I have no idea.
Ikea thinks you should use the included wall tether when using the Picture Frame in this configuration, which may feel unnecessary, but after three fatal incidents of its dressers tipping over , the Swedish company now includes tethers on just about every product it sells that poses even the slightest risk of falling over.
There are options for concealing the cord, but none are ideal.
If you place the Picture Frame on the floor, you probably don’t need to worry about it, but if you place it on a mantle, or any other elevated surface, I recommend using it — the speaker isn’t super heavy, but it could still cause all kinds of damage if it fell.
Hanging the Picture Frame on a wall takes a bit more patience. The included wall hook isn’t like a traditional picture hook. It’s rectangular and is shaped to match up with the two corresponding cavities on the back of the speaker. But this means you can’t nudge the Picture Frame if it’s not level, so mounting that wall hook correctly is really important.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends You’ll find a set of physical buttons behind the front face of the speaker for play/pause and volume (they also let you track-skip and join a playing group of speakers). They’re easy to use despite being hidden, but you need to keep their placement in mind when picking a height for wall-mounting. In landscape mode, the controls end up on the top-left corner. If you place the speaker too high, they’ll be really awkward to access.
Can’t kill the cord Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As expected, when hanging on a wall, the power cord looks pretty bad. Ikea and Sonos deserve some kudos for wrapping the cord in braided material. This diminishes the shiny plastic feel of power cords that accompany most Sonos speakers, and it also lets the cord lie quite flat and kink-free against the wall. In short, it looks as good as a dangling white power cord can look. But it’s still a dangling white power cord.
There are options for concealing the cord, but none are ideal. You could encase the cord in a paintable plastic conduit. You’ll find plenty of these on Amazon. But even the lowest profile conduit will still leave a visible vertical line dropping down from the speaker.
You could pay an electrician to install a power outlet right behind the speaker. Thanks to a massive cavity built into the back panel that has its own retention strap, you can hide the entire cord there. But that will probably cost you as much or more than the speaker, and you could be facing some drywall repairs too.
You may want to try running the cord behind a piece of furniture, but because picture frames are seldom mounted without some space between them and other objects, you’ll likely still end up with at least a little cord showing.
Your cord concealment strategy will matter even more if you avail yourself of the Picture Frame’s ability to daisy-chain two speakers together. Each speaker has a power-in and a power-out port, so you can run both speakers off of a single power outlet. The umbilical power cord needed to do this, which Ikea calls “FÖRNIMMA” is sold separately, but so far, there’s no sign of it on Ikea’s website.
And, since we’re discussing cords, if you want to use the Picture Frame’s built-in Ethernet port, you’ve now got another cord to hide.
Easy setup Because it’s fully compatible with the Sonos ecosystem and Apple AirPlay 2 , it’s got incredible flexibility as a sound system. You can stream music from every conceivable music service, you can group the Picture Frame with other Sonos or Symfonisk speakers in your home, and it can be set up as a stereo pair with a second Picture Frame speaker.
Considering how thin the speaker cabinet is, Sonos has been able to extract a surprising amount of low-end bass.
If you’ve never used the Sonos app before, it guides you through the setup process in a matter of minutes. But for existing Sonos users, it’s even easier. After you plug the Picture Frame into power and fire up the Sonos S2 app, the speaker is automatically recognized and you’re prompted to add it to your system. You don’t even have to press any buttons. Just hold your phone next to the speaker when the app asks you to, and it does the rest.
Sonos products have always been incredibly easy to set up, but it’s now totally effortless.
Surprisingly good bass Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Out of the box, without adjusting EQ or performing Sonos’ Trueplay tuning, the sound is OK, but nothing special. High frequencies feel a bit subdued and the bass lacks punch. But boosting both bass and treble sliders in the Sonos app makes a world of difference and the Picture Frame really comes alive.
For those who are tight on space, or simply hate the way most speakers look, it’s an affordable and easy way to get good sound.
Considering how thin the speaker cabinet is, Sonos has been able to extract a surprising amount of low-end bass. But just a word of caution to help you set your expectations: High frequency sounds like snares, cymbals, and some voices can sound a bit harsh.
Sonos designed the tweeter to provide a more expansive sound, but I didn’t find the soundstage especially wide or deep.
The midranges — always a challenge to get just right even on pricier speakers, can lack detail.
I also noticed that as you push the volume north of 75%, the cabinet had a tendency to vibrate a little. This was more noticeable when the speaker was wall-mounted.
If you’re wondering how the Picture Frame sounds compared to the other Symfonisk products, that’s a tough comparison. It packs more punch than the Bookshelf Speaker , but overall, the Table Lamp delivers a more pleasing sound signature, with more warmth and detail.
Our take Being able to place a speaker on a wall, disguised as art, is a great concept, but the Ikea Symfonisk Picture Frame speaker doesn’t quite nail the execution. The power cord is an eyesore and it doesn’t sound as good as a similarly-priced regular wireless speaker. Still, for those who are tight on space, or simply hate the way most speakers look, it’s an affordable and easy way to get good sound in your chosen room.
Is there a better alternative? Better alternatives for sound include the Sonos One, Sonos One SL, and the Symfonisk Table Lamp speaker. But if your goal is to disguise a speaker as an objet d’art, I’m hard-pressed to think of a better way to go.
How long will it last? As long as you don’t damage it through a careless installation, (or trip over that power cable), the Picture Frame Speaker should last for many years. Sonos has a (mostly) good track record of keeping its products updated with new software and I expect the Picture Frame will remain a useful part of the Sonos ecosystem for years to come.
Should you buy it? Yes, but only if you find the Picture Frame’s unique qualities essential to creating your ideal home sound system. Otherwise, I think most people will be happier with one of the other Symfonisk or Sonos products.
Editors' Recommendations This tiny Ikea waterproof Bluetooth speaker is just $15 Sonos Voice Control hands-off review: Now we’re talking Ikea’s new Symfonisk Table Lamp speaker lets you mix and match lampshades Ikea leaks details of its next Sonos Symfonisk Table Lamp Ikea’s $199 Symfonisk Picture Frame Speaker lets you hang your tunes on a wall Product Reviews Sonos Speaker Reviews Audio / Video It seems that Ikea inadvertently confirmed the existence of a new Sonos-powered smart speaker for the Symfonisk product line. A product page on the company's website, spotted by The Verge on June 1, detailed a Symfonisk "picture frame with Wi-Fi speaker," priced at $199. The product page has since been removed.
"You can choose to hang it on its own on the wall as an eye-catcher, match it with your other pictures on a wall, place it on the floor, or lean it against a wall,” Ikea’s site reportedly said. The term "picture frame" may be too literal -- it doesn't look like people will be able to put any art they like on the speaker's front, but there will likely be a choice of decor options created in an acoustically transparent fabric.
Audio / Video Previous Next Audio / Video Ikea's Sonos-compatible Symfonisk wireless speakers have yet to make their official retail appearance (scheduled for August 1), but we now know Ikea has plans to integrate these speakers into its existing smart home control system. The Swedish furniture giant says it will sell a Symfonisk Music Remote -- a small, puck-like device -- that will let users play/pause the audio, skip tracks, and control volume on its Symfonisk speakers. The remote will require the use of the $30 Tradfri Gateway and you'll configure its various functions via the Tradfri app, but Ikea hasn't said how much the new remote will cost.
Odds are good it will be very affordable. Ikea's existing Tradfri remote, which is meant to control Ikea's line of smart home lights, outlets, and more, is only $16. The Symfonisk Music Remote will obviously control Symfonisk speakers, which likely means it can control any Sonos speakers that are on the same network.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
