Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans By Simon Cohen Close JBL Authentics 500.
JBL JBL has long dominated the portable Bluetooth speaker market with its rugged and great-sounding Clip, Flip , and Charge speakers, but apart from a few smart soundbars, it has never taken a serious shot at Sonos’ wireless multiroom crown. Until now. Today, JBL has launched a family of three retro-style portable wireless speakers it calls the Authentics. With prices that range from $330 to $700 and a huge list of Sonos-like features — including Dolby Atmos — it’s clear that JBL is no longer content to just be the wireless speaker you take to the beach. The Authentics will be available to buy starting September 17; here’s everything you need to know.
The new JBL Authentics Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa on the same speaker Dolby Atmos Music Portability Stereo sound The new JBL Authentics JBL Authentics 300.
JBL These are not the first wireless JBL speakers to bear the Authentics label. That name goes back to 2014, when JBL introduced the Authentics L8 and L16, a set of wooden veneer, Quadrex foam grille speakers that sounded fantastic — if you could get around their steep prices. They were also way ahead of their time, with support for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, Apple AirPlay , DLNA, and lossless hi-res audio at 24-bit/96kHz.
The new JBL Authentics pick up right where the L8 and L16 left off. They still sport the Quadrex foam grille that harks back to the 1970 JBL L100 Century , but they’ve traded the wood surround for an aluminum frame with a synthetic leather-wrapped enclosure. They still offer Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, but they’re no longer standalone wireless speakers. Through the JBL One app, you can manage multiple Authentics throughout your home, browse and play music through integrated streaming services, and access EQ settings for each speaker.
JBL Authentics 300 (back view) JBL Each Authentics speaker can also auto-tune itself using its built-in microphones, which can be disabled with a physical switch located on the back side. The speakers also have an impressive array of physical controls: play/pause, track skipping, rotary dials for volume and more, plus power, Bluetooth, and a dedicated button for accessing saved favorite items from the app.
What is Sonos? What you need to know about the wireless music system JBL shows off new true wireless earbuds and speakers at CES 2022 Bang & Olufsen’s latest speaker is as thin as a book In addition to Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, the speakers can be hardwired via Ethernet, and there’s a 3.5mm analog line-in for connecting devices like turntables. A USB-C port has also been included, but JBL hasn’t said how this will be used.
Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa on the same speaker JBL If some of that sounds familiar, it’s because it’s pretty much the formula that Sonos has been using for years. But JBL has managed to upstage Sonos in one very big way: the new Authentics can run Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa simultaneously. Once both have been set up in the JBL One app, you can say “Hey, Google” or “Alexa” and the relevant voice assistant will respond.
When Sonos first announced its now-discontinued Sonos One smart speaker, the wisdom at the time was that at best, a smart speaker like the Sonos One could be compatible with both Alexa and Google Assistant, but it couldn’t run them both at the same time. That same wisdom suggested that this restriction was a Google rule, not a fundamental technical limitation on Sonos’ speakers.
JBL Authentics 200.
JBL Google seems to have gotten over its reluctance to work on the same device as Amazon’s AI. “We’re thrilled to collaborate on the first simultaneous Google Assistant and Alexa speaker,” said Duke Dukellis, Google’s director of Google Assistant, in a press release, “so that users have the choice to engage with whichever voice assistant they’d like.” Amazon is apparently happy with the collaboration too: “Amazon has long supported giving customers the freedom and convenience to use multiple assistants on a single device with our Voice Interoperability Initiative,” said Aaron Rubenson, Amazon’s vice president of Alexa, “and we’re delighted to make Alexa simultaneously available with Google Assistant on the new JBL Authentics speakers.” This has got to make Sonos just a little angry. Not only was it never permitted to run both assistants simultaneously on any of its smart speakers, but its most recent Era 100 and Era 300 smart speakers aren’t currently compatible with Google Assistant at all, leaving its users to choose between Amazon Alexa and Sonos’ own Sonos Voice Control voice assistant.
At the launch of the new Era speakers, Sonos said its legal fights with Google had nothing to do with the speakers’ lack of Google Assistant support, but these new Authentics speakers from JBL make us question that claim.
Dolby Atmos Music JBL Authentics 500 (bottom view) JBL The top-of-the-line JBL Authentics 500 ($700) becomes the second-ever non-soundbar wireless speaker to delivers Dolby Atmos Music compatibility (the $449 Sonos Era 300 was the first). Unlike the Era 300, which has drivers that aim upward and to the sides (in addition to forward), all of the Authentics’ main drivers are forward-facing: there are three 1-inch tweeters and three 2.75-inch midrange woofers, along with a huge 6.5-inch downfiring subwoofer powered by 270 watts of amplification.
Another difference between the Era 300 and the Authentics 500: The Era processes 5.1.2 channels, with no virtualization, whereas the Authentics 500 processes 3.1 channel sound and uses virtual Dolby Atmos for height and surround channels.
Portability The JBL Authentics 300 ($430) is the portable speaker of the lineup, and similar to the $399 Sonos Move , it has a replaceable rechargeable battery that can provide up to eight hours of playtime. The company says it delivers 360-degree sound with distinctive highs and deep bass.
Stereo sound The entry-level Authentics 200 ($330) takes a page from the Sonos Era 100, with stereo sound via a pair of 1-inch tweeters. There’s also a full-range 5-inch woofer and a downfiring 6-inch passive radiator, which could help the 200 deliver very impressive bass for its size.
Editors' Recommendations B&O’s Beolab 8 wireless speaker uses AirTag tech to track you Sonos’ new Era 100 and Era 300 wireless speakers go all-in on spatial audio and Bluetooth Sony’s latest wireless speaker doubles as a pricey artificial candle The Sonos Roam just put all other portable speakers on notice Sonos likely planning a smaller, cheaper Move portable speaker Tech News Audio / Video KEF has debuted two new pairs of high-end bookshelf speakers, including a powered, wireless set with high-resolution streaming capabilities. Both the LS50 Meta and LS50 Wireless II have us rather intrigued here at Digital Trends, especially considering our reverence for past KEF speakers like the KEF Q150 and the original LS50 Wireless.
The audio company has launched the LS50 Meta and the LS50 Wireless II with retail prices of $1,500 and $2,500, respectively. According to KEF, the pairs of speakers will be the world’s first loudspeakers to use Metamaterial Absorption Technology (MAT), the company's own tech, which it says reduces the vibration sound causes to the actual casing of the speaker and prevents any of that vibration from interfering with the audio quality coming out of it.
Audio / Video What a day to be a JBL fan.
The audio company kicked off IFA 2020 with a splash, introducing a huge assortment of Bluetooth speakers and headphones, highlighted by the $500 JBL PartyBox 310. In all, there are five different speakers and four pairs of earbuds.
Audio / Video Japanese audio company Denon has revealed a system of three wireless multiroom speakers called Denon Home: The $249 Denon Home 150, $499 Denon Home 250, and the $699 Denon Home 350. Each model is compatible with Denon's HEOS Wi-Fi audio platform and can play hi-res audio files. AirPlay 2 and Bluetooth round out the speakers' wireless connections. The new models will go on sale in the first quarter of 2020, though no specific release date has been shared.
Intriguingly, all three models of Denon Home speakers will come equipped with two microphones for future voice assistant support. However, these microphones will be disabled and not functional until a future software update is available, according to the company. Denon has not yet indicated which voice assistants will be compatible with these new speakers.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
