Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Sonos Beam (Gen 2) review: Improved immersion with Dolby Atmos By Simon Cohen Close $449.00 Easy setup Immersive, room-filling sound Sleek design AirPlay 2 No HDMI inputs Requires compatible TV for Dolby Atmos Since its debut in 2018, the $399 Sonos Beam has been one of the best small-sized soundbars you can buy, thanks to its great sound, compact and elegant design, easy integration with Sonos’ whole-home sound platform, and its ability to double as an Alexa or Google Assistant smart speaker.
A few small changes What’s in the box? Great grille An (even) easier setup Is it Atmos? The one-port problem Conclusion But over the past few years, Dolby Atmos — the 3D surround sound format that makes movies and music much more immersive — has become very popular, helped in no small part due to adoption by streaming giants like Netflix, Disney+, Amazon Prime Video, and both Apple TV+ and Apple Music. This means that most new soundbars, including Sonos’ $799 Arc flagship soundbar , are now Atmos-compatible, and the second-gen Beam is no exception.
Bose’s new flagship Dolby Atmos soundbar brings AI smarts to the dialogue problem Samsung adds HW-Q900C to its lineup of 2023 Dolby Atmos soundbars Audible brings immersive Dolby Atmos to its audiobooks The new Sonos Beam is more expensive at $449. So the questions are whether existing Beam owners should even think about upgrading, and what prospective Beam newcomers can expect from it.
A few small changes First things first: Before you read this hands-on review, check out our review of the original Sonos Beam.
 Sonos has made very few changes to the second-gen version. So from here on in, I’ll only discuss what those changes are, and how they affect the Beam’s performance.
I’m a fan of the grille. It’s way easier to clean and doesn’t attract as much dust in the first place.
Some of these changes are relatively minor, like the decision to replace the fabric speaker grille with one that is made from rigid plastic. The biggest change is to the sound, which I’ll cover in a moment. It’s worth noting, however, that even though I’ll be discussing the changes Sonos has made to the Beam, this isn’t an attempt to determine which one is better, because barring any remaining Gen 1 inventory, the second-gen Beam is now the only one you can buy.
What’s in the box? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos always has been the king of simplicity, and that extends from its setup and software to its packaging. The new Beam comes in a plainly printed, fully recyclable box, and the only plastic you’ll find are the two small poly bags that protect the included HDMI cable and optical-to-HDMI adapter. If Sonos can find a way to delete these bags, it will have one of the most sustainable packages in the industry.
Inside the box, you’ll find the Beam, color-matched power and HDMI cables, that adapter I mentioned, and some printed material for warranties, etc.
Great grille Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I like the traditional look of fabric grilles on a speaker. But as the owner of two cats, I can attest to the fact that fabric grilles tend to be dust and fur magnets that require pretty constant cleaning. I don’t know if this was the thinking at Sonos when it decided to replace the first-gen Beam’s fabric grille with a perforated plastic version, but I’m a fan. It’s way easier to clean and doesn’t attract as much dust in the first place.
Setting up Sonos products has always been remarkably easy. The new Beam is even easier.
The white gen-2 review unit Sonos sent me looks great. And if you’re a die-hard white product fan, this new Beam will match every other white Sonos speaker you might own, from the Sonos One to the tiny new Roam.
An (even) easier setup Setting up Sonos products has always been remarkably easy. Plug it in, open the Sonos app, tap a few settings, and press a button or two on the speaker. Two minutes later and you’re done. The new Beam is, unbelievably, even easier to set up thanks to Sonos’ use of near-field communication (NFC). As soon as I plugged the Beam into the wall and fired up the Sonos S2 app, the app recognized the Beam and prompted me to finish the setup.
This would have been as easy as tapping my iPhone against the top surface of the Beam, but my phone case is ludicrously thick (it’s designed to mount the phone to a motorcycle), so that part didn’t work. Cleverly, the app saw that I was having trouble and asked if I wanted to switch to an audio-based setup. Saying yes, it asked me to hold the phone next to the speaker while the speaker played a coded audio tone. Five seconds later, I was done. I have to give mad props to Sonos — the company just keeps making it easier to work with its products.
Even the connection to my TV was a breeze. Once that HDMI cable is plugged in, the Beam automatically identifies your TV and figures out which commands it will need to control it, which will come in especially handy if you opt to use Alexa’s TV control skills.
Is it Atmos? Sonos Beam Gen 2 (at top, in white) and Sonos Beam Gen 1.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Dolby Atmos can be tricky technology to understand.
 In an ideal world, we’d all buy dedicated 5.1.2 or better home theater systems with at least two ceiling speakers to give us all of the juicy hemisphere-of-sound effects that Atmos is known for. That’s not realistic for most of us, which is why Dolby Atmos soundbars have become so popular. With built-in up-firing drivers that bounce sound off the ceiling and down to our ears, the best Atmos soundbars deliver a highly convincing substitute for those installed ceiling speakers. But here’s the thing with Dolby Atmos: It can actually be delivered through as few as two channels thanks to sound virtualization, which uses some very clever brain-tricking techniques to simulate the presence of up-firing or ceiling-based height channels.
With the addition of virtualized surround sound, it’s an even more formidable addition to your TV.
How well that virtualization works depends on a whole host of factors including the size of the soundbar, the number of drivers it can leverage to create that simulated sound, the size and shape of your room, and even whether you’ve set the soundbar on a tabletop or wall-mounted it.
In general, this kind of virtualized Atmos sound simply can’t compete with what you’ll get from dedicated speakers, and the new Beam is no exception. However, Sonos has managed to extract a surprising amount of additional immersion from what is, under that perforated grille, the exact same driver setup as the first-gen Beam.
Sonos Beam Gen 2 (top, white) and Beam Gen 1.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends To try to get a sense of the difference between the first- and second-gen models, I stacked them vertically and played a variety of content, switching the HDMI cable back and forth between them. The new Beam’s soundstage is significantly wider, and when playing Atmos content, you do get a small but noticeable height effect. The Beam has always punched well above its weight class when it comes to its ability to fill a room with great sound, and with the addition of virtualized surround sound, it’s an even more formidable addition to your TV.
For fun, I tried out the recently remastered 1980s classic Top Gun.
 Sure enough, those epic dogfighting scenes and the iconic opening sequence aboard the deck of an aircraft carrier sounded fantastic. The Beam still lacks the deep low-end rumble of soundbars that come with their own subwoofers, but I was pleasantly surprised at just how well it was able to mimic a full surround system. What’s even more surprising is how well this effect carries over into standard 5.1 content.
There were a few occasions when I thought the first-gen Beam delivered slightly more intelligible dialogue, but the difference was minor.
The one-port problem Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The new Beam has a single HDMI ARC/eARC port for connecting to a TV. The eARC part is new — it lets HDMI eARC-equipped TVs send a hi-res, lossless, 24-bit audio signal to the soundbar, whereas the first-gen Beam was limited to lossy digital audio. That single port wasn’t a serious limiting factor for the first-gen Beam because the speaker wasn’t able to decode anything more than Dolby 5.1, which meant that any TV from the past 15 years could take advantage of its full capabilities even if it meant using an optical-to-HDMI adapter.
But with the new Beam’s Dolby Atmos powers, this is no longer the case. To hear Dolby Atmos from the new Beam, your TV must support Dolby Atmos, too. Moreover, if you want to hear Dolby Atmos from your other devices (like streaming boxes, game consoles, or Blu-ray players), they must be plugged into your TV’s HDMI inputs. There’s simply no other way to get Atmos content to the new Beam.
If you have a Dolby Atmos TV with plenty of HDMI ports, this should work out fine. But if your TV isn’t Dolby Atmos compatible, you’ll never get the full benefit of this speaker. Many other Atmos soundbars come equipped with at least one HDMI input, giving you the option of plugging in an Apple TV 4K or a Roku Ultra. This would send the Atmos content directly to the speaker while passing through video to the TV, but that’s not an option with the new Beam.
For Dolby Atmos Music , Sonos plans to add support for this format later this year. It will begin with Amazon Music HD , but hopefully, other services that offer Atmos Music and lossless music like Tidal and Apple Music , will be added soon after.
Conclusion The Sonos Beam is now a little more expensive, but it’s worth it. The additional immersion offered by the speaker’s virtualized Dolby Atmos and 5.1 surround sound take an already capable soundbar for movies and music and make it that much better. If you have an Atmos-capable TV, it’s worth upgrading to take advantage of the better sound. Even if your TV isn’t Atmos-enabled, the new Beam can provide improved immersion over its predecessor, but the difference will be less noticeable.
Editors' Recommendations The best Dolby Atmos soundbars for 2023 Sennheiser’s Ambeo Soundbar Mini is a pricey, bedroom-sized Dolby Atmos speaker Nakamichi’s wild Dragon 11.4.6 Dolby Atmos soundbar goes up for preorder this week JBL reveals its new flagship soundbar at CES 2023: 15 channels and 1170W of Dolby Atmos power Bose Smart Soundbar 600 one-ups the Sonos Beam with up-firing drivers Product Reviews Sonos Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Speakers Audio / Video Polk Audio has two new Dolby Atmos soundbars models that are aimed squarely at folks who might be considering the excellent $899 Sonos Arc. The MagniFi Max AX ($799) and MagniFi Max AX SR ($899) are both equipped with wireless subwoofers and 11-speaker arrays, including dedicated up-firing drivers, but the MagniFi Max AX SR provides an extra level of surround sound immersion by including a set of wireless surround speakers. Both models can also work with DTS:X and will be available in October from polkaudio.com and select retailers.
Polk Audio says that the key to the MagniFi Max AX's performance, beyond all of those drivers, is the company's Stereo Dimensional Array (SDA) technology. Now in its fourth generation, Polk claims that SDA delivers an ultra-wide soundstage by eliminating interaural crosstalk. My experience with Polk's previous SDA-equipped models like the MagniFi Mini AX suggests that's not just marketing-speak -- they do provide a very convincing wide sound field.
MagniFi Max AX Audio / Video Sony has launched the HT-A3000, its newest Dolby Atmos/DTS-X soundbar in the A-Series, which currently includes the $1,000 HT-A5000, $1,400 HT-A7000, and $1,800 HT-A9. At just $700, that makes the 3.1-channel HT-A3000 the most affordable option in the range. It's available for pre-sale starting August 30.
The HT-A3000 shares many features with its pricier siblings, including AirPlay, Chromecast, and compatibility with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa smart speakers, plus the ability to connect to Sony's Bravia XR series smart TVs, which can be used as an extended center channel for more immersive sound and more realistic dialogue.
Audio / Video If it's summer, that must mean it's soundbar season. And right on cue, Samsung has announced that almost every soundbar model in its 2022 collection is now available from its website as well as partnering retailers. It's a group of speakers that's heavy on immersive audio thanks to Dolby Atmos support, and most of these models include special features that make them even more attractive if you own or are planning to buy a Samsung smart TV.
We'll first do a roundup of all of the technologies that Samsung is highlighting for 2022, and then we'll get right into the various models, with pricing, availability, and key specifications so you can begin your hunt for the best soundbar for you.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
