Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update By Simon Cohen Close Sonos Sonos has unveiled the latest version of its Move portable smart speaker — the Move 2.
 It looks nearly identical to the original Sonos Move , yet contains several updates that bring it in line with the company’s recently released Era 100 and Era 300 speakers. The Move 2 has been priced at $449, a $50 increase over the previous model, and will be available starting September 20, 2023, in a wide selection of countries. The Move 2 replaces the first-gen speaker, though Sonos will continue to sell the original Move while inventory remains, so you may want to keep an eye open for some deep discounts.
At a distance, you can’t tell the Move and Move 2 apart, well, unless the Move 2 shows up in its new color option — olive. The Move 2 is a hair bigger, but it still weighs the same 6.61 pounds.
Sonos has kept the same rubberized no-slip base as well as the integrated carry handle on the back. As with the original, the Move 2 is built for the outdoors with an IP56 rating for dust and water resistance.
Sonos However, if you look closer, some of the updates become visible. The Sonos logo is now color-matched to the grille. The top surface now has the same touch controls as the Era 100, with a dedicated volume slider. Around the back, there’s a physical switch for shutting off the built-in microphones, and the button that used to switch the speaker between Wi-Fi and Bluetooth modes is now just a Bluetooth on/off switch because the Move 2 can use Wi-Fi (up to Wi-Fi 6) and Bluetooth 5.0 simultaneously.
Sonos Under the exterior, there are now two angled tweeters plus a midwoofer — the same arrangement as the Era 100 — which gives the Move 2 the ability to produce stereo sound on its own. As with all Sonos products, you can create a stereo pair when using two Move 2 speakers and you’re connected to Wi-Fi.
One of the Move’s best features — automatic Trueplay — is still on tap for the Move 2, letting the speaker recalibrate itself every time you change its location.
Sonos Sonos has kept the clever user-replaceable battery design, but it has upped the battery’s capacity significantly: from up to 11 hours of playback to up to 24 hours. This increase also brings along the ability to charge external devices via the speaker’s USB-C port. While the Move 2 doesn’t have a visual battery life indicator, you can use Sonos Voice Control to ask, “Hey Sonos , how much battery do I have left?” B&O’s latest speaker is a love letter to aluminum Soundcore’s new Motion speakers are tough little portables with hi-res sound UE’s Epicboom is a powerful, portable, pool-proof speaker The USB-C port can be used to charge the speaker directly with a USB-C PD charger when not using the included wireless charging base. Speaking of the base, it’s also received a redesign. The AC adapter is now a separate part with a USB-C port and it connects to the base via a USB-C cable. As a bonus, it’s backward compatible with the original Move.
Sonos The Move 2’s USB-C port can also expand its capabilities, just like the new Era speakers. Using optional adapters, you can connect an analog source like a turntable, or a wired network connection to your router, something the original Move can’t do.
Overall, the Move 2 represents a nice upgrade over the original Move, but there’s one small thing Move owners will need to consider: As with the Era Series, the Move 2 isn’t currently compatible with Google Assistant.
 You’ll be able to run Amazon Alexa and Sonos Voice Control simultaneously, but Google’s AI is AWOL, and Sonos hasn’t said when that will change.
Editors' Recommendations Klipsch takes on Marshall with three new portable and rugged Bluetooth speakers Anker Soundcore’s Motion X500 packs spatial audio into a more portable package Tivoli Audio’s Model Two Digital speaker abandons terrestrial radio JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans Six years in hell: My aging Sonos speakers have survived outside Sonos Tech News Audio / Video Skullcandy, well-known for its range of affordable and colorful headphones and earbuds, is throwing its hat into the compact Bluetooth speaker ring with a new lineup of waterproof speakers that boast some impressive battery life and that range in price from just $30 to $80.
With summer in full swing, Skullcandy's got eyes on poolside parties and camping trips with its first attempt at the price-conscious Bluetooth speaker crowd that includes five new cleverly-named devices that start with the basic Ounce ($30) and Kilo ($40) models before moving into the slightly more feature-rich Terrain Mini ($40), Terrain ($60), and the biggest in the line, the Terrain XL ($80).
Audio / Video Klipsch Gig XXL Klipsch Party speakers -- powerful and often colorfully lit portable Bluetooth loudspeakers -- have been a growing category for several years. In fact, we've seen a lot of the big brands in audio -- like Sony, JBL, and LG -- getting in on the act with a variety of models and prices. But the way you can really tell that this is no longer a flavor-of-the-month trend is that Klipsch is now a player too.
Audio / Video Sonos customers who use Android devices to control their wireless speakers are about to lose the ability to play music files that are stored locally on their phones or tablets. As spotted by The Verge, Sonos recently (and quietly) announced that as of May 23, 2023, the Sonos app for Android will no longer give you the On this Mobile Device option in the app's Music Sources tab.
Apple users already know what this is like. The same feature was removed from iOS and iPadOS versions of the Sonos app several years ago. The difference, though, is that as Apple user owns a newish Sonos speaker (basically any product released since the Sonos One) they have the option to stream any content from their phones to their Sonos gear over AirPlay 2, a lossless, 16-bit wireless protocol that's supported on tons of Sonos products.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
