Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Sonos Move review: Great outdoors The Sonos Move is a pricey portable, but it sure can power a pool party By Simon Cohen Close $399.00 Superb build quality Integration with Sonos systems Sounds especially good outdoors User-replaceable battery Sonos app doesn’t work over Bluetooth Big size, big price Sonos has been the leading brand in wireless whole-home audio since the company effectively created the category almost 20 years ago. But in all that time, it has steadfastly refused to support Bluetooth wireless connections on its devices.
Big yet balanced Let it rain Patio power A better battery Hey Google, can you say Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and AirPlay 2? Is it truly Trueplay? Our Take Only Sonos knows all the reasons why the company held back, but that chapter is now closed. The company’s first truly portable (and Bluetooth-capable) $399 Move is here. The only remaining question is, given the considerable investment it requires, is the Move worth it? B&O’s latest speaker is a love letter to aluminum Tivoli Audio reimagines its SongBook as two retro-style boomboxes Tivoli Audio’s Model Two Digital speaker abandons terrestrial radio Big yet balanced Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos products have a reputation for superb build quality, and whether we’re talking about a Sonos One SL (formerly the Play:1 ) or a Sonos Sub , each speaker feels solid and substantial. The Sonos Move takes this even further. It weighs 6.6 pounds, making it over two pounds heavier than a Sonos One , and nearly twice the weight of the Ultimate Ears Megablast , a portable speaker that has many of the same features.
Still, thanks to its well-designed integrated carry-handle, you can carry it from place to place without much fear of dropping it accidentally. The included charging base essentially disappears with the Move in place, which is ideal and provides additional stability.
Thanks to its carry-handle, you can take the Move from place to place without fear of dropping it.
Not that the Move needs it. Despite a rounded base that looks like it wants to roll the Move onto its side at any moment, a low center of gravity plus a very grippy rubberized bottom lets the Move lean at some surprisingly precarious angles without falling over. Even if it did (I did not intentionally drop or roll the Move) Sonos assures us the speaker would continue functioning perfectly, though no promises were made about denting the black metal grill. And unlike so many other built-for-the-elements speakers, the Move’s understated design still looks great sitting on a coffee table or in a bookshelf.
In June 2020, Sonos announced that in addition to the Move’s debut matte black finish, a new matte-white color will be added.
 This brings the Move in-line with the rest of Sonos’ other black and white products like the Sonos One SL, Sonos Five, and the new Sonos Arc soundbar.
Let it rain That robustness extends to the Move’s ability to deal with the inherently variable conditions of being outdoors — in fact, it’s a big part of the speaker’s appeal. With an IP56 rating , the Move should be able to withstand deserts and beaches alike, and if you take it to the snowboard terrain park, it should do just fine there too.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I did none of that with the Move. Instead, I subjected it to a small patio get-together, sat it beside our cats’ dusty litter box for 24 hours, and then ran it under a tap to clean it off. You would never do any of that with a regular Sonos speaker, but the Move handled it all effortlessly.
Patio power The ability to survive in the face of water, dust, and the occasional spilled beer is one thing, but a portable speaker needs to sound as though it was only built for one thing: Great audio. Indoors, the Move compares favorably to Sonos One or Play:1. It creates a slightly wider soundstage, and bass is more pronounced, but there’s also a corresponding muddying of the midrange. It’s the kind of thing you’d only notice if you placed a Move right next to one of those other models and then obsessively switched back and forth between them while playing everything from The Offspring to Adele. Not that I did that, of course.
Take the Move outside and only one thought comes to mind: This thing rocks.
Take the Move outside, though, and all other thoughts but one melt away: This thing rocks. Even at less than 50% volume, I ran the risk of drawing unwanted attention from neighbors several doors down the street. The expanded soundstage that was noticeable when indoors magically continues to expand when outdoors. We have a pair of Klipsch AWR-650-SM landscape speakers powered by a Sonos Amp in our garden. They sound fantastic. But if the Move had been available, we could have bought two of them, saved ourselves considerable dough, and ended up with a much more flexible solution for outdoor music. For a lot of folks, a single Move will be more than enough speaker for even the wildest pool parties.
A better battery I’ve said it before , but it bears repeating: Sonos’ decision to make the Move’s rechargeable lithium-ion battery user-replaceable is worthy of high praise. Sonos claims the cell is good for three years or 900 charges, after which you can swap out the battery for a new one. The battery is good for a claimed 10 hours of constant use at medium volumes. I think this is pretty accurate, but I had a different experience when the Move was in standby mode. It’s supposed to stay that way for up to 120 hours, but I found that when I abandoned it with a 40% charge remaining, it warned me through an audible tone that it needed to be plugged in after only 12 hours.
On June 16, 2020, along with the announcement of the new white color option, Sonos also announced that the Move’s battery life is being upped to 11 hours via a software update.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Move is designed to be recharged via USB-C when you don’t have the charging cradle handy, but be warned: Not every USB-C charger will work. The Move requires a charger that can output one of these three voltage/amperage combos: 12V/3A, 15V/3A, 20V/2.25A, and it’s highly unlikely that the charger that came with your phone is compatible. You don’t want to make this discovery in the middle of a road trip, with the Move’s front LED blinking an angry orange at you to let you know it’s not happy.
Hey Google, can you say Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and AirPlay 2? The Sonos Move is a lot of things: A portable Bluetooth speaker with 10-hours of battery life, a Wi-Fi speaker with AirPlay 2 , and a smart speaker with your choice of Alex or Google Assistant onboard. The Move gets all of them right. Switching between Wi-Fi and Bluetooth modes is as easy as pressing the dedicated mode button on the back of the speaker. Amazingly, Bluetooth sounds very close in quality to Wi-Fi, proving the point that the single biggest factor in perceived sound quality is the speaker, not necessarily the source.
I still preferred listening over Wi-Fi indoors, but frankly, in the places where Bluetooth will be called upon, it’s more than sufficient. Sonos claims that Bluetooth wireless range on the Move is superb, and though that’s true outside, indoors it had just as much trouble staying connected to my phone as I roamed our multi-level house as other BT products I’ve tested, which is to say, it did not like being separated by more than one floor.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos needs to find a way to let the Sonos app maintain operational control of the Move when in Bluetooth mode. Needing to fire up a third-party app like Spotify , Apple Music , or Tidal just because I’m away from home doesn’t feel right. I like the Sonos app experience and one day I hope it will be the only experience I need, regardless of the color of my wireless connection.
I did experience a bit of difficulty getting Google Assistant setup on the Move, but I have a feeling that was because I was already using GA on another Sonos product in my home. Removing GA from the system entirely and adding it back in got everything working correctly. Once Google was up and running, it performed flawlessly, responding to all of my commands both generic “Hey Google, how do I make a mojito?” to the specific, “Hey Google, play Los Lobos in the living room,” very quickly. The microphone array on the Move has so far proven more sensitive than that of the Sonos One, picking up my commands across the room when speaking quietly, and even whispered when just a few feet away.
Is it truly Trueplay? That same mic array is responsible for one of the Move’s more intriguing features: Auto Trueplay, or the ability to optimize its own EQ settings based on where the speaker is located. In the Sonos demo, last August, a spokesperson shifted the Move from a wide-open living room space to a tiny cubby hole, and indeed, Auto Trueplay adjusted itself to improve the sound.
Perhaps I wasn’t subjecting the Move to acoustic changes as extreme as those in the demo, but I didn’t notice a whole lot of EQ adjustments from place to place. I found myself wondering if Auto Trueplay, with its dependence on local acoustic feedback only, could be as effective as Trueplay done from a smartphone mic located away from the speaker. Unfortunately, there’s no way to test this. If you disable Auto Trueplay on the Move, you do not get manual Trueplay as an option.
Our Take At $399, the Sonos Move isn’t as affordable as some had wished the company’s first Bluetooth speaker would be. It lacks a few Bluetooth bells and whistles like a speakerphone and Bluetooth stereo-paring, and you can’t use the Sonos app when in Bluetooth mode. When indoors, it sounds only somewhat better than a $170 Sonos One SL.
Still, with its ability to fill any backyard or pool party with tunes, easy switching between Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, and handy smart-speaker integration, for some Sonos fans, it will be the ideal companion and possibly the only Sonos product they need.
Is there a better alternative? We’re beginning to see a big increase in the number of speakers that are portable, smart, weatherproof, and able to work on Bluetooth as well as Wi-Fi networks. Many of these are less expensive than the $399 Sonos Move. Of these, the $349 Bose Portable Home Speaker is the closest in design and features. It’s not quite as powerful as the Move, but it’s a good bit lighter and its carry handle makes it a better companion for longer hikes. Here’s our head-to-head comparison of these two excellent portables.
 But one thing none of these competitors can do is connect to a Sonos system. For Sonos owners, that makes the Move unique.
How long will it last? All Sonos products come with a one-year warranty, but this is not an indicator of longevity. Sonos speakers have always featured impressive build quality and the company goes to great lengths to test its products for durability. With its user-replaceable battery and top-notch construction, we expect the Sonos Move will have an excellent operational life-span.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Sonos Move delivers superb portable sound in a package that can survive just about anything you can throw at it.
Editors' Recommendations Klipsch takes on Marshall with three new portable and rugged Bluetooth speakers Anker Soundcore’s Motion X500 packs spatial audio into a more portable package The best speakers for 2023: great hi-fi options for music and more Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update UE’s Epicboom is a powerful, portable, pool-proof speaker Product Reviews Sonos Speaker Reviews Wireless & Bluetooth Speaker Reviews Audio / Video JBL Authentics 500. JBL JBL has long dominated the portable Bluetooth speaker market with its rugged and great-sounding Clip, Flip, and Charge speakers, but apart from a few smart soundbars, it has never taken a serious shot at Sonos' wireless multiroom crown. Until now. Today, JBL has launched a family of three retro-style portable wireless speakers it calls the Authentics. With prices that range from $330 to $700 and a huge list of Sonos-like features -- including Dolby Atmos -- it's clear that JBL is no longer content to just be the wireless speaker you take to the beach. The Authentics will be available to buy starting September 17; here's everything you need to know.
The new JBL Authentics JBL Authentics 300. JBL Audio / Video Take your music with you wherever you go by buying a Bluetooth speaker. They come in all shapes and sizes, from budget-friendly options to feature-packed devices. You should always be on the lookout for savings though, and to help you with your search, we've rounded up some of the best Bluetooth speaker deals that you can shop right now, including products from popular brands like Bose, Sonos, and JBL. These discounts won't last forever though, so if you see an offer that matches your needs and fits within your budget, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase right away.
Hoey Portable — $18, was $26 The Hoey Portable Bluetooth speaker provides incredible value for the price. It's an outside speaker that fits in your palm, ready to be taken with you as you go. The combination of dual-pairing and a 66-foot Bluetooth range give you an incredible amount of versatility and range as you move about with the Hoey Portable. At 50% volume, this small speaker's battery can last for 20 hours. Speakers with this capability and price point are perfect for camping or other outdoor activities where you wouldn't want to risk higher-quality equipment or anti-socially wear the best earbuds, but still want some sound accompaniment.
Audio / Video Choosing the best wireless speaker from the sea of options out there can be tricky. What defines a "wireless" speaker can mean many things to people: Does it use Bluetooth or your home's Wi-Fi network (or both) to connect and stream music and podcasts from your phone or other sources? Is it portable (with a battery) or more of an at-home, plug-in kinda speaker that's part of a bigger multi-room network music system? Yes, yes, and yes.
For this roundup, we're going to focus more on the plug-in variety with Wi-Fi and/or Bluetooth wireless capabilities, because we have a whole other roundup of the more portable Bluetooth speaker variety for you to check out, too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
