Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Sonos Radio HD offers ad-free, CD-quality streaming for $8 per month By Simon Cohen Close Sonos has launched Sonos Radio HD, a premium tier of its Sonos Radio service that eliminates all advertisements and boosts audio quality significantly, for $8 per month. The service is available in the U.S. and U.K., with other countries being added in the future.
Sonos Sonos claims that its free tier of Sonos Radio is already the fourth-most-popular music source for users of its whole-home wireless speakers. After listening to user feedback, the company decided to add the premium HD tier, which addresses several desired changes: No more ads.
Lossless, CD-quality audio using the FLAC format , which is the equivalent of Tidal , Qobuz , and Amazon Music HD ‘s hi-fi tiers.
The ability to skip or repeat songs.
Sonos Radio HD will also be the exclusive home for new artist-curated stations. The first of these is Dolly Parton’s Songteller Radio , which Sonos claims will continually evolve and feature Dolly’s hits, favorite artists, and special commentary on songs and moments throughout her career.
Spotify Plus might give free users unlimited track skipping for $1 per month Spotify’s free tier now works on Sonos, just in time for Black Friday No car? SiriusXM’s $8 a month streaming plan has everything but Howard Stern The company plans to keep adding more of these artist-curated stations over time, with five more promised in early 2021.
In addition to serving up all of the same stations currently on tap with the free Radio tier, Sonos is developing a new set of stations exclusively for HD subscribers. Stations like Nashville Now , Americana Ramble , Unforgettable , and Distant Kingdom each offer a deeper exploration into genres and music scenes with the help of expert curators.
Specialized stations such as The Inner Now, Chill Beats , and Mellow Morning are designed to be companions for at-home activities like cooking, working, relaxing, and sleeping. Six sleep stations have also been created with soundscapes that have been tuned specifically for Sonos speakers: White noise, pink noise, brown noise, rain, rainforest, and piano.
As intriguing as Sonos Radio HD sounds, the question is whether or not Sonos users will pay $8 per month for the service. Like the Sonos app itself, Sonos Radio HD (as well as the free tier) cannot be accessed from any other device — it only works when at home listening to Sonos wireless speakers over a Wi-Fi network. This means that there’s no way Sonos Radio HD can fully replace a traditional streaming service like Spotify or Apple Music , even if it offered the same on-demand library of songs, which currently it does not.
Nonetheless, a pandemic might just be the perfect moment to launch an at-home-only premium radio service. Playlists are popular because they take the guesswork out of trying to find something to listen to. Netflix believes that the same thing could be true for streaming video — it recently launched a linear, nonskippable stream in France called Direct.
It’s also worth noting that SiriusXM, which offers a streaming-only version of its subscription , charges $13 per month and you can’t skip songs or get a lossless, CD-quality stream.
Editors' Recommendations Victrola’s Stream Onyx turntable makes listening to vinyl over Sonos more affordable Sonos takes aim at Apple Music and Spotify with ad-free, original radio stations Amazon Music HD offers hi-res streaming for a lot less than Tidal Sonos Tech News Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
