Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Sonos announces $279 Ray Soundbar and its own voice control By Phil Nickinson and Simon Cohen Close The leaks, hints, and other implications were all true. Sonos today unleashed a new soundbar , its own voice control service, and new colors for an existing speaker.
Sonos Ray Sonos Voice Control Sonos Roam colors Sonos Ray is the new entry in the product line and the new least-expensive option in the company’s home theater lineup. Sonos Voice Control — that’s the official name — perhaps is the most intriguing of the three releases, if for no other reason than it’s using a serious actor’s intonations. (Or an actor’s serious intonations. More on that in a minute.) And the portable Sonos Roam has some new colors on the way.
Digital Trends got a sneak peek at the new fare this week in New York City — let’s break it all down.
Android users are about to lose a handy Sonos feature Sonos’ new search feature needs work Bluetooth on Sonos’ new Era speakers isn’t what you think – it’s better Sonos Ray Sonos has had some great soundbars for a while now, from the now-discontinued Playbar to its two Dolby Atmos -enabled models — the $899 Sonos Arc , and the less-expensive-but-still-excellent $449 Sonos Beam Gen 2.
 The biggest issue really was (and still is) the price. While you get what you pay for, you’re going to be paying a lot. Sonos Beam made that pill slightly less painful to swallow, but you’re still talking about a nearly $500 soundbar.
Sonos Ray nearly cuts that price in half — it’ll retail for $279 when it goes on sale June 7 — and it takes up even less room.
“Homes have become movie theaters, fitness studios, gaming hubs and so much more, all supported by a streaming era that is no longer exclusive to just TV, music, and film,” Patrick Spence, CEO of Sonos, said in a press release announcing the new speaker. “Ray makes it easier than ever to enhance those listening experiences, thanks to its smaller size and impressive sound.” Sonos is no stranger to packing a lot into a little bit of space. And it’s doing so here with three channels of audio. It uses special wave splitters to direct higher frequencies forward and outward, which gives the impression of having a center channel. All that despite only having four drivers — two midwoofers in the middle, flanked by a pair of tweeters.
We got a taste of the Ray’s sonic chops at our in-person briefing in New York City, and the new soundbar absolutely lives up to Sonos’ reputation for extracting maximum audio impact from surprisingly small speakers. The Ray, like almost all of the company’s products, sounds like it punches well above its weight. We’ll reserve final judgment until we get our review model in for testing, but we’re optimistic that the Ray will fare very well once we put it through its paces.
Despite its diminutive size, at least compared to Sonos’ other soundbars, you won’t be making a $560 stereo pair out of these things. Nor can you use them as surrounds. And, in fact, it’s only got an optical input, and no microphones, which means no Dolby Atmos, and no voice control. Again, you get what you pay for. But you can enhance that three-channel sound to a full 5.1 system with any other set of Sonos speakers that can be paired in stereo, as well as with a Sonos sub. That’s great if you already have a slew of Sonos speakers laying around, but a little harder to justify the trade-offs if you’re buying everything brand-new.
Sonos Ray still pairs with the latest Sonos app, of course, and it can use other wireless features like Apple’s AirPlay 2.
Sonos Voice Control Perhaps the biggest announcement today is Sonos Voice Control. It’s being billed as a privacy-first feature, and its birth comes amid several tiffs with none other than Google, which didn’t want Sonos to be able to offer multiple voice systems in parallel (allowing you to easily switch between them). Separately, Google was found to be in violation of some of Sonos’ patents in regards to how the speakers work wirelessly.
All of that makes for some interesting timing, though it’s still inside baseball. The important part here is that Sonos Voice Control is coming on June 1 in the U.S., with France to follow later this year. (Sonos says other markets will come after that.) And at risk of completely burying the lede, Sonos has enlisted veteran actor Giancarlo Esposito as the voice of Sonos Voice Control. As in Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul.
 And The Mandalorian.
 And The Boys.
 Or if you really want to go back, Homicide: Life on the Street , and NYPD Blue.
 Or The Usual Suspects.
Image used with permission by copyright holder And if you’re wondering how Sonos got Esposito to sit in a studio booth for what must have been days, barking out all the different responses you could imagine a voice AI would need — well, that’s not quite what he did. Surely there was a bunch of that. But this is the era of machine learning. And the machines have learned to replicate Esposito’s unmistakable speech.
“With careful recording, advanced processing and mastering, the voice is natural, unobtrusive, yet confident and engaging,” Sonos said in the press release.
Sonos says while Esposito is the first voice of Sonos Voice Control, his won’t be the last. (Our top picks for the French launch: Omar Sy, Jean Reno, Vincent Cassel, and Eva Green.) Voice controls and always-on microphones, of course, spark discussions about privacy. Sonos says that requests are handled on the devices themselves, and not processed in the cloud. “No audio or transcript is sent to the cloud, stored, listened to, or read by anyone,” the company says. No word, though, on how that could limit improvements, but the launch feature set is impressive. You’ll be able to do almost anything with Sonos Voice Control that you can do with the Sonos app, including starting playback of tracks, artists, and playlists from several streaming services, adding or removing rooms from synchronized play, adjusting volume, and you’ll even be able to get a report on the remaining battery life on products like the Roam and Move.
Speaking of those two Bluetooth-enabled speakers , because Sonos Voice Control is on-device, it will also work when connected to a phone over Bluetooth — even if that phone isn’t running the Sonos app. Controls will be more limited — only play/pause, track skip forward/back, and volume will be supported, but that’s still a nice little convenience.
“Sonos is committed to delivering new experiences that effortlessly connect listeners to the content they love,” Joseph Dureau, vice president of voice experience at Sonos, said in the press release. “One of the most natural ways to connect to your music is with your voice, but when we speak to our customers, we hear that many of them have concerns about privacy and are dissatisfied with the accuracy, speed, and ease of use of existing voice services. Sonos Voice Control delivers the experience our customers want without compromise — one that puts speed, accuracy, and privacy on an equal footing.” Sonos Voice Control will be available on new voice-capable products, and available as a free update on existing products. At launch, it’ll work with Sonos Radio, Apple Music , Amazon Music, Deezer, and Pandora. Noticeably missing from that list are Spotify , Tidal , and YouTube Music , though Sonos says they’ll be adding more services over time. We’re a bit disappointed that Sonos decided against supporting local music library access via Voice Control — something that Alexa and Google Assistant can’t do either.
Sonos Roam colors Finally — as had already been teased and leaked — Sonos Roam is getting three new colors to go along with the existing black and white options.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends New are “Olive,” “Wave,” and “Sunset.” In English, that’s dark green, reddish-orange, and a soft, light blue.
All three new colors are available starting today for $179.
Editors' Recommendations Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update Sonos could soon be the soundtrack for your next shopping trip Sonos has always been expensive — but that doesn’t mean it’s overpriced What is Sonos? What you need to know about the wireless music system Sonos CEO on Bluetooth epiphany: ‘you have to be humble enough to listen to customers’ Sonos Tech News Audio / Video Sonos has launched its latest wireless multiroom smart speakers — the $249 Era 100 and $449 Era 300 — effectively rebooting the company's entry-level product. It marks the end of the Sonos One, and its midsize offering, which had been noticeably absent since the discontinuation of the Play:3 in 2018. We'll have reviews in due time, but I've spent a little bit of time with the new kit, and here are my first impressions.
I got a chance to hear both the Sonos Era 100 and 300 in action at a private launch event in New York City. The demo room was hardly an ideal spot from an acoustics point of view -- a wide and shallow shape and drapes slung on some walls, while others were built from highly reflective glass -- and yet I was able to get a sense of both speakers' potential.
Audio / Video Sonos has officially unveiled two new wireless smart speakers -- the $249 Sonos Era 100, and the $449 Sonos Era 300. While the Era 100 is effectively a new version of the aging Sonos One, which it replaces, the Era 300 is an entirely new type of speaker for the company, with six drivers (including an up-firing tweeter) and compatibility with spatial audio formats like Dolby Atmos.
The leaks pretty much nailed it. Both speakers will be available on March 28 in 26 countries including the U.S., Canada, Mexico, the U.K., Ireland, Germany, and Australia, with preorders beginning March 7.
Audio / Video Sonos today sent out an email telling folks to "Get ready for a new era of sound." Get it? New "era?" Because that's exactly what's about to drop with the Era 100 and Era 300 speakers, which already have leaked in pretty good detail.
The countdown on the email points to something happening on Tuesday, March 7, and the email says to expect preorders then, too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
