The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Alex Heath Deputy Editor Alex Heath is a deputy editor for The Verge and the author of Command Line, a weekly newsletter about the tech industry’s inside conversation. Since joining The Verge in 2021, he has broken agenda-setting scoops like Facebook’s rebrand to Meta. He was a co-host for the sixth season of Land of the Giants, Vox Media’s award-winning podcast series about the most influential tech companies. He was also part of the reporting team behind "Extremely Hardcore," New York Magazine’s cover story about Elon Musk’s chaotic takeover of Twitter.
Heath has been covering the technology industry for more than a decade in previous roles at The Information, Insider, and other outlets. His work has been cited by Congress and recognized by the Society of American Business Editors and Writers. He has appeared as an expert voice on The Today Show, Good Morning America, CNN, NPR, among other programs. He is based in Los Angeles.
TWITTER Command Line Command Line What happened to Sam Altman? | Comments Twitter The CEO of OpenAI has weighed in on the new chatbot from Elon Musk — on Musk’s own social platform, no less! For those who don’t know the backstory here, Musk was instrumental in the creation of OpenAI but walked away from it and is now trying to compete with ChatGPT. (And GPTs are custom AI bots that OpenAI just started letting ChatGPT subscribers create.) OpenAI wants to be the App Store of AI The creator of ChatGPT is taking a big swing with its new store for AI bots. Are we witnessing the beginning of a new platform? | Comments Here at DevDay , I’ve been watching demos of OpenAI employees building custom GPT agents.
 It’s impressively simple to build one with zero coding knowledge. I watched one GPT be built in maybe three minutes and it just worked.
The fact that these are made using entirely natural language means, I think, that people will make a lot of them. OpenAI wants that so it can become the first true AI platform, though it still needs to figure out how to transparently compensate creators.
Quote I’m here at OpenAI’s DevDay , where the press just had a roundtable Q&A with CEO Sam Altman and CTO Mira Murati. When asked how the company is going to calculate its payouts to creators for the use of their custom GPTs through its store , Altman was clear that all that is still being figured out: “We’re going to start with just sharing a part of the [ChatGPT] subscription revenue overall. There will be a tier based off how many active users you have, plus some category bonuses. I expect that to evolve a lot.” Tech Tech OpenAI is letting anyone create their own version of ChatGPT | Comments Creators Creators All the news from OpenAI’s first developer conference | Comments Command Line Command Line The risks facing X | Comments Elon Musk’s ‘everything app’ plan for X, in his own words During an employee all-hands, Musk said that Twitter became X to replace YouTube, LinkedIn, FaceTime, dating apps, and even your bank.
| Comments Twitter - X Twitter - X X is officially worth less than half of what Elon Musk paid for it | Comments Pagination Page 1 of 32 Next Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
