Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Sonos Sub Review By Oliver Amnuayphol Close $699.00 Powerful, potent bass for such a small sub Excellent extension and impact Force cancelling design eliminates unwanted vibrations Solid, inert design Easy to set up and use Bass a little too thumpy at times No standard line inputs, i.e. only compatible with Sonos gear For all of the quality, flexibility and whole-home hotness that goes into Sonos’ wireless speakers , there was always something missing: bass. Not in absolute terms, mind you, since Sonos’ speakers have always had relatively good bass performance, especially for their compact sizes. But, given the constraints of that pesky little thing called physics, small speakers can only go so low and so loud in the nether regions. Sonos seems to have recognized this fact and now has a subwoofer to go along with its array of wireless speakers and components, which they’ve simply called the Sub. We dig deeper into its design and performance capabilities to see if it delivers.
Out of the box The Sonos Sub certainly doesn’t look like any other subwoofer we’ve seen. We thought its unique, squared-off “O” shape was a refreshing change from the typical big ‘n bulky, fridge-sized subs we’ve grown accustomed to over the years. Its smooth, gloss-black finish and contoured edges felt nice to the touch, and we couldn’t resist running our hands over the two opposing, racetrack-shaped woofer faces exposed inside the center of the “O.” Be forewarned though when you’re unboxing it for the first time: At 36 lbs. and with outer dimensions of 15.8 x 6.2 x 15 (W x H x D, in inches), the Sub is deceptively heavy for such a compact design. Other items included inside the box were a quick setup guide, user manual, stick-on protective felt pads and a power cord.
Sonos all but teases what may well be headphones in 2024 The best subwoofers for 2023: from SVS, Klipsch, KEF, and more McIntosh’s bonkers subwoofer stands over six feet tall and weighs as much as a motorcycle Features The Sonos Sub reveals doesn’t have any visible inputs to speak of, except for an Ethernet port on the bottom. This port allows the sub to offer an Internet connection to another component, such as your set-top box or gaming console, should you need a handy way of stringing along another Internet-enabled device.
One conspicuous absence from the Sonos Sub is any sort of standard connection jack: It’s an exclusively wireless component, and it’s designed to work only with other Sonos equipment. Speaking of which, Sonos does mention that the Sub works with all amplified Sonos components from all generations, except for Connect/Zoneplayers 80 and 90. We kind of missed those RCA jacks as it eliminated the possibility of any direct comparisons to other subs, but everyday Sonos users of course will have no issues with the lack of a jack.
The Sub does have some other practical features, such as its placement-versatile design. You can position it like a traditional sub for example, standing up and placed in a corner, or laid down flat and tucked under or next to a couch.
Sonos also utilizes a force-cancelling design for those aforementioned opposing woofers, which is said to virtually eliminate unwanted vibrations from the cabinet. Other features include two class-D amplifiers (power rating not specified), internal DSP-controlled calibration circuitry, and single-button setup. The enclosure is made out of a dense, resin-like material instead of the more traditional MDF, which is largely responsible for the Sub’s overall heft and solid feel.
Setup Since the Sub is designed to mate exclusively with other amplified Sonos devices, we needed the appropriate gear to test it out with; Sonos kindly sent along a pair of Play:3 speakers and its Bridge wireless transmitter accordingly. All Sonos devices can be controlled from your computer, smartphone or tablet with the appropriate controller apps for Mac, PC, iOS or Android compatible devices We started our set up by first connecting the Bridge to our computer network’s Wi-Fi router, then booting up the included disc on our laptop and following a series of prompts in the instructions. Once the software is installed on your computer, a peer-to-peer wireless “mesh” network is setup between your computer and the Bridge, connecting with the music files stored on your computer or network drive. You then add your Sonos amplified components to the network by following the instructions on your computer or controller device, followed by a simple push of a button on your Sonos components to be added.
Once we added the Sub to our Sonos network, all that was left was calibrating it. This is done by listening to a scalar test tone type of sound being played through the subwoofer and associated speakers listening for the louder of two comparison signals. You then select the best volume blend between the Sub and the speakers. The internal DSP then adjusts and manages all filtration, active EQ and time alignment settings. The whole process from setup to playback readiness took us less than 5 minutes.
Performance After setting up the Sub, we decided to just let ‘er rip with as much bass-heavy music as it could handle. The Sub immediately responded with some surprisingly tight, deep, and tactile bass. We could feel the low bass notes from Kanye West’s album 808s and Heartbreaks and D’Angelo’s classic Voodoo resonating throughout our room, and never did it sound the least bit mushy, slow, or overbearing. Occasionally we could hear a thumpy midbass emphasis, but this seemed to be more a product of where in the room we positioned the subwoofer.
Speaking of placement, we were impressed with how well the Sonos subwoofer worked in a variety of locations. We tried it in a corner, along several points at both long and short walls, and under or next to our couch, and it produced consistently satisfying bass every time. Of course, the Sub responded favorably to optimized positioning within the room like any subwoofer, but unlike those many others, it wasn’t super finicky about it. In our room, we preferred placing the sub directly under the couch for the most impact, but of course your results and preferences may vary.
Perhaps what’s most impressive however was how well the Sub blended with the Play:3 speakers we had on hand. The potent little Sonos sub created a perfectly seamless sound every time, even with music that constantly moved from bass to midrange notes, such as some classical piano and cello pieces. Many high end, multi-way speaker systems could learn a thing or two from how coherently the Sonos sub integrated with its partnering speakers.
We continued testing the Sub will all different kinds of music, from classical pipe organ to jazz, and even to some electronica as well. We spun up Deadmau5’ latest album, >album title goes here< , for some really big bass grins, and we were mightily impressed by the pounding, driving bass beats pulsating through our body. If we listened for it, we could tell that the Sub’s claimed low end response of 25Hz was highly optimistic, but the quality of bass that was reproduced consistently sounded awesome for such a small subwoofer. The Sonos Sub always kept its composure, even at ear-blistering volumes, and it always maintained excellent pitch clarity and definition while delivering plenty of oomph when called for.
We should also mention we never had any drop outs or signal issues with the Sonos Sub. It always stayed locked in perfect step with the music, without any noticeable lags or sync problems. Even when our ancient Dell Latitude D810 computer would occasionally have its own, non Sonos-related operational hiccups, the Sub started back up on cue every time without fail.
Conclusion Considering all that it offers, we can heartily recommend the Sonos Sub. And yeah, we realize that, at $699, it ain’t cheap. But no other sub that we’re aware of combines such a small form factor with this kind of potent, high-quality bass in one heck of an aesthetically pleasing package. Add in the seamless sonic integration, its placement flexibility, and its consistently rock-solid, bullet-proof operation, and the Sub becomes a no brainer for anyone looking to take their Sonos system to the next level. If you have always loved your Sonos system but craved moss bass, here’s your chance.
Highs Powerful, potent bass for such a small sub Excellent extension and impact Force cancelling design eliminates unwanted vibrations Solid, inert design Easy to set up and use Lows Bass a little too thumpy at times No standard line inputs, i.e. only compatible with Sonos gear Editors' Recommendations The best Dolby Atmos soundbars for 2023 The best soundbars of 2023: a sound upgrade for your TV The best speakers for 2023: great hi-fi options for music and more Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans Product Reviews Sonos Speaker Reviews Audio / Video To have a good home theater or audio setup, there are several components you need, including an immersive TV and a good surround sound system to pair with it. And when it comes to creating the ideal audio system, of any kind, you can't overlook a subwoofer. These units provide an extra bass hit which can make a big difference to your home theater setup when listening to music or watching movies. They allow you to feel every crash, every explosion, and the pound of every punch. When those jets fly overhead, the subwoofer will make your couch tremble as if the engines are right above your house. If you're adding one to your car, you'll feel the same but with the kicks and snare of your music. But they're not cheap, so you can pay hundreds of dollars for a good-quality subwoofer, or even more if you're looking at high-end options. It is possible to save some cash on top subwoofer brands like Klipsch and Sony by pinpointing the best subwoofer deals, and that's where we have you covered.
Dr.J Professional 2.1 channel soundbar with subwoofer system -- $64, was $130 More than just the subwoofer, this surround system includes a versatile soundbar or dual-speaker -- it can be split in half -- offering a versatile audio system. It does featured Bluetooth for wireless connectivity, so you can connect a phone or tablet, for example. You can also plug your TV in via HDMI ARC, optical, or 3.5 mm audio. The 35W bass woofer delivers a nice little kick.
Audio / Video Sonos is one of the best brands in the audio business, and it regularly places products among the best speakers and best soundbars. Whether you’re looking for some bass with a new subwoofer or something that can produce crystal clear and immersive surround sound, shopping Sonos deals may turn up something more affordable than you’d think. There are quite a few Sonos deals taking place right now, and we’ve rounded up the best of the best. Read onward for more details.
Sonos One SL Shadow Edition 2-pack — $378, was $423 Smart speakers are a crowded marketplace, with products like the Apple HomePod being a popular option. The Sonos One is another popular option though, and the Sonos One SL model has even more to offer. With these speakers you can easily start or expand a multiroom system and enjoy music, radio, podcasts, audiobooks, and more from all of your favorite streaming services. Because this is a 2-pack, you can use them to create a stereo pair when you place them both in the same room. You can even use them as rear speakers if you have a Sonos home theater setup for immersive surround sound.
Audio / Video Take your music with you wherever you go by buying a Bluetooth speaker. They come in all shapes and sizes, from budget-friendly options to feature-packed devices. You should always be on the lookout for savings though, and to help you with your search, we've rounded up some of the best Bluetooth speaker deals that you can shop right now, including products from popular brands like Bose, Sonos, and JBL. These discounts won't last forever though, so if you see an offer that matches your needs and fits within your budget, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase right away.
Hoey Portable — $18, was $26 The Hoey Portable Bluetooth speaker provides incredible value for the price. It's an outside speaker that fits in your palm, ready to be taken with you as you go. The combination of dual-pairing and a 66-foot Bluetooth range give you an incredible amount of versatility and range as you move about with the Hoey Portable. At 50% volume, this small speaker's battery can last for 20 hours. Speakers with this capability and price point are perfect for camping or other outdoor activities where you wouldn't want to risk higher-quality equipment or anti-socially wear the best earbuds, but still want some sound accompaniment.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
