Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Audio / Video News Can waving an iPhone around like a Shaman fix a speaker? We tried Sonos Trueplay to find out By Simon Cohen Close You’d look like you were trying to scare away evil spirits, or perhaps purge the room of a really bad fart.
That’s because Sonos , in its unwavering desire to offer the ultimate in simplicity for music lovers, has never given its users access to EQ control. It’s not that they can’t — there’s no physical or software-based reason for its absence — after all, the company does let you alter both treble and bass characteristics, and provides a switch for loudness, for every speaker under the system’s control. It’s just that Sonos is philosophically opposed to this kind of mucking about with acoustic dynamics. Perhaps it’s just afraid that if people start pushing sliders up and down across the full range of frequencies, the company’s phone-based tech support people will start getting flooded with calls about poor sound quality? Some iPhone 12s keep dropping 5G — here’s what you can do to fix it Whatever the reason, Sonos has decided to acknowledge that the careful calibration it does with all of its all-in-one speakers at the factory might not actually be the right settings for your particular room set-up. Last week, they released a new version of their software which includes the “Trueplay,” option for the Play 1 , Play 3 and Play 5 speakers (the company says it will be available on other products “soon”), which gives users an entirely new way to customize the sound of their Sonos speakers.
How it works Trueplay uses the microphone built into iPhones and iPads (sorry Android users, you haven’t been included in the Trueplay party yet) to analyze the specific acoustic properties of the room in which you’ve placed your Sonos speaker(s). It then ”smartly tunes that speaker so the music sounds its very best,” according to the company’s press release.
In practice, this analysis and tuning is actually kind of hilarious. When you embark on the Trueplay process, the app first asks you flip your phone or tablet around so that the mic (which is at the bottom of these devices) can have unfettered access to room sound. It then measures the ambient room noise to see if it’s quiet enough to proceed with the next step. If it is, the Sonos speakers in your room will start to emit a loud, psychedelic repetitive sound pattern that vaguely evokes vintage sound effects from Doctor Who.
Here’s the funny part: While the speakers pump out this sound, you must walk slowly yet efficiently around the room while you wave your iDevice up and down. You must do this for 30-45 seconds so that the app can get a feel for how sound bounces off the various surfaces in the room. The app encourages you to spend the most time near the area that you will be doing most of your listening from (say a couch or dining room table). Even though this is a really clever use of the built-in mic — take note makers of home theater receivers — you feel somewhat shaman-esque as you perform this device-waving ritual again and again in each room. If someone were to spy you through a window, you’d look like you were trying to scare away evil spirits, or perhaps purge the room of a really bad fart.
Once the Trueplay tuning process is complete, you can go back into the room settings and flip Trueplay on and off while music is playing so that you can hear the before and after. If you think it sounds better on, great, leave it turned on. If you don’t hear much difference or decide to change the location of your speaker, you can run through the tuning process again. Or you can just leave it turned off.
The results So does all of this walking and waving make a difference? Yes, it does, but how much of a difference will depend on the room and your chosen speaker placement. We have four Sonos rooms in our house, three of which have single Play:1 speakers and one that has two of them set up as a stereo pair. In our kitchen, living room, and bathroom (yes, we have a speaker in our bathroom, stop being so judgy) Trueplay made almost no difference at all. To be fair, it knew that it wasn’t going to be having a big impact and told me so at the end of the tuning, noting that “only subtle adjustments were needed.” In the master bedroom, however, Trueplay’s tuning made for a distinctly different sound. Check out the clip below to hear the difference: Now before you recoil at the relative tinny-ness of the Trueplay effect, keep in mind, I recorded this with my iPhone so it’s not going to be a true reflection of what I actually heard. But you can tell what’s going on. Trueplay has altered the higher frequencies to bring out the vocals (thanks Adele!) while it diminishes the low end so as to keep everything crisp and prevent muddiness from creeping in. I know it doesn’t sound like an improvement necessarily, but trust me, the Trueplay “on” sound is much more faithful to what you’d hear if you listened to the same track on your computer with a decent pair of headphones.
But why did this room change so much when the others didn’t? Chalk it up to speaker placement. In our living room, for instance, our stereo Play:1s are placed on small end-tables, about 1 foot from the nearest wall and with soaring 10-foot ceilings overhead. It’s generally a wide open space with a few seats and a couch. The bedroom is a different story entirely. There, the single Play:1 is crammed in a corner, with less than 1 inch of space between it and the two nearest walls. Moreover, it has only about a foot of overhead before the ceiling slopes down to meet the walls. Hardly a recipe for decent audio, and there’s no question–the factory settings were just not cutting it.
Conclusion If you’ve got some unusual speaker placements going on at home, or perhaps your room isn’t exactly a text-book box shape with lots of open space, Trueplay will definitely give you a cleaner, more vibrant and brighter sound delivery that does a particularly good job of enhancing vocals or higher-end frequencies. But your mileage will vary based on just how non-standard of a set-up you’ve got. The Trueplay tuning process is an easy–if a bit odd–way to adjust the EQ on any Sonos speaker to better reflect the acoustic properties of your space.
Sonos PLAY:5 Image used with permission by copyright holder That said, now that Sonos has proven willing to make EQ adjustments to their speakers after they leave the factory, the company needs to open those doors all the way and let consumers make their own adjustments. Trueplay is great for people who want a “wizard” approach to custom EQ, but for those of us who have distinct audio preferences (or those who simply don’t like how Trueplay interprets our environment) there needs to be a full set of EQ sliders. It’s been an omission since day 1 on Sonos and it’s time we were offered more.
Oh, and would it be too much to ask to be able to sort my music by decade? Old dudes like me need to relive our glory days and since I don’t own a DeLorean … Editors' Recommendations Finally, you can use a Google Nest smart speaker or display to find an iPhone Can a game like Dark Souls work on the iPhone? Pascal’s Wager wants to find out Mobile News Sonos Tech News Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
