Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Sonos’ first wired speakers are all designed to be paired with the Amp By Simon Cohen Close Previous Next 1 5 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder When Sonos launched its revamped speaker amplifier, the Sonos Amp , it hinted that we would soon see a new line of wired speakers designed specifically to work with the Amp. Those speakers are now here and they’re called Sonos Architectural by Sonance. It’s not just one product; Sonos Architectural speakers are an entirely new line of products, and the company is launching the collection with three new models: Sonos In-Wall by Sonance ($599 per pair), Sonos In-Ceiling by Sonance ($599 per pair), and Sonos Outdoor by Sonance ($799 per pair).
All three models are designed to be wired directly into the Sonos Amp, which can automatically detect their presence. It does this using by sending a sine wave over the speaker cables and can then read the unique impedance values at specific frequencies that the Architectural speakers generate. Once detected, the Sonos Amp applies the correct DSP for the number and type of speakers connected. From there, both the in-wall and in-ceiling the speakers can be tuned by Sonos’s Trueplay feature using the Sonos app on a smartphone or tablet. It’s the first time that Trueplay tuning has been compatible with wired speakers. There are two caveats, however: The outdoor speakers are not Trueplay compatible (presumably because of the difficulty of using Trueplay in a non-quiet environment), and if you connect your own wired subwoofer (instead of using Sonos ’s Sub, or no sub at all), Trueplay won’t be available with the in-wall or in-ceiling models either.
Sonus Faber’s Duetto are the first wireless speakers to use UWB JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans Six years in hell: My aging Sonos speakers have survived outside No special speaker cables are required, though Sonos recommends using wires that are 16 gauge or larger, and rated for in-wall or outdoor use as appropriate for the install.
The three models in the Sonos Architectural series share similar specs: Two drivers (1-inch tweeter, 6.5-inch woofer), 8 ohms, 130 watts maximum power, and 89dB SPL sensitivity. The only difference is in frequency response; the two indoor models can handle from 44Hz to 20kHz, while the outdoor model has a slightly smaller range at 55Hz to 20kHz. Up to three pairs can be powered by a single Sonos Amp.
The in-ceiling speakers will come with round, paintable grilles, with the option of installing square grilles. The in-wall models also have paintable grilles, though you only get square-shaped ones. The outdoor speakers are meant to withstand humidity, water, salt spray, heat, UV rays, and freezing temperatures. It’s also apparent from the photos that the outdoor speakers have been designed consistently with a monochromatic approach that the company has used on all of its recent products.
“Our goal was to create a solution optimized for installers, bringing the Sonos experience to architectural speakers for the first time,” Sonos CEO Patrick Spence said in a press release. “Sonance was the natural partner, sharing our passion for high quality, reliable sound solutions inside and outside the home.” It’s interesting to watch Sonos’s continuing evolution as an audio company. On the one hand, it appears determined to make its products available to a mainstream audience, as evidenced by its partnership with Ikea.
 On the other hand, the combo of the Sonos Amp and the Sonos Architectural by Sonance line demonstrates that it also has a deep commitment to the much higher-end custom installer market. It’s a two-pronged approach that much older companies like Pioneer and Yamaha have pursued for decades, so in some ways, it’s the obvious path for Sonos to take as well. We’re also curious whether the company’s willingness to make a wired product when it matters (for custom installations) will extend into other products like home theatre speakers, given the growing presence of wireless home theater tech like Wisa.
The Sonos In-Wall and In-Ceiling speakers will be available for pre-order on the Sonos website , with general availability beginning on February 26; general availability for the Outdoor speakers will follow in April, though no word yet on when they’ll be up for pre-order. Along with this announcement, Sonos said it is starting expand availability of the Sonos Amp beyond its website, into retail locations.
Updated to clarify how TruePlay works with the new Architectural speakers.
Editors' Recommendations Guess how much this tiny Porsche Design speaker costs Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update B&W’s revamped entry-level 600 Series speakers start at $900 for a pair Klipsch cranks up the karaoke with its first wireless party speakers I had to try the Sonos Era 300 for myself and wasn’t ready for what happened News Sonos Tech News Audio / Video Sonos customers who use Android devices to control their wireless speakers are about to lose the ability to play music files that are stored locally on their phones or tablets. As spotted by The Verge, Sonos recently (and quietly) announced that as of May 23, 2023, the Sonos app for Android will no longer give you the On this Mobile Device option in the app's Music Sources tab.
Apple users already know what this is like. The same feature was removed from iOS and iPadOS versions of the Sonos app several years ago. The difference, though, is that as Apple user owns a newish Sonos speaker (basically any product released since the Sonos One) they have the option to stream any content from their phones to their Sonos gear over AirPlay 2, a lossless, 16-bit wireless protocol that's supported on tons of Sonos products.
Audio / Video Sonos has announced Sonos Pro, a new way for companies with multiple locations to manage all of their Sonos wireless speakers from a central, web-based command center. The software-as-a-service (SaaS) product has subscription pricing: each location you want to control costs $35 per month. It's a U.S.-only service for now, with additional markets planned for the future.
The system is flexible, letting companies decide how much control over individual locations should be in the hands of their employees -- all the way from full control to no control at all. The days of your local Kroger running its own quirky playlist could be over if that sort of thing goes against the brand's standards for its in-store experience. Or, companies could decide that a local flavor is exactly what they want to promote and give their store managers a big influence on the music their customers hear.
Audio / Video Shortly after Sonos showed off its new wireless speakers -- the Era 100 and Era 300 -- the company quietly released a new version of the search feature that’s built into the Sonos app. Sonos says the new version (which is slowly rolling out) is a better overall search experience. And yet, it's a big departure from its normal search, which is now called "classic search," and I think it’s still very much a work in progress.
Sonos says that for now, the classic search isn't going away. But come April 25, everyone will have access to the new search. Here's what you can expect when you use it.
A service-first, service-only approach Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
