Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Audio / Video Guides IP what? Explaining water and dust resistance for audio gear By Simon Cohen and Tyler Lacoma Close If you’ve ever gone online shopping for a new set of earbuds , a smartwatch, or even a new smartphone, you’ve probably encountered a cryptic code that looks like this: IPXY, where the X and/or Y are sometimes replaced by numbers, e.g. IPX5. This is commonly referred to as an IP rating. Manufacturers will usually toss that cipher into their descriptions at some point as a measurement of how water- and dust-resistant their products are.
What are IP and IPX? Which resistance is right for me? Water resistance by the numbers Water submersion by the numbers Dust resistance by the numbers FAQ on waterproofing But what exactly do these numbers mean, and how should they apply to everyday use? If you’re on the lookout for a new pair of headphones for swimming or watersports , then this absolutely applies to you. Luckily, we’re here to help you crack the code with a step-by-step explanation of this oft-used but seldom explained technical rating for water and dust resistance.
What are IP and IPX? Image used with permission by copyright holder IP, IPX, or IPXY are all references to a standardized rating for how well a product can prevent solids and liquids from entering, and thus possibly causing damage to, your electronics. Officially, IP stands for “International Protection” marking because the standard was developed and is maintained by the International Electrotechnical Commission.
 But it’s more commonly referred to as Ingress Protection. The two numbers that follow the letters IP indicate what kind of protection you can expect.
What are Bluetooth codecs and do they really matter? The wireless audio tech fully explained What is Roon? The pricey, powerful Apple iTunes alternative The X is the solids/dust protection level, from zero to six, where zero means no protection whatsoever and six means it’s dust-tight: no dust can enter at all, even after exposure for up to eight hours. Because very few consumer devices are designed to keep out dust (presumably, it’s just not something people usually need), this part of the IP rating is often left out. That’s why we most often see an X after IP, e.g. IPX5 — it means there’s no rating for the solids ingress portion.
The Y is the liquids protection level from zero to eight, where zero means no protection whatsoever and eight means it can withstand being immersed in water, usually up to a depth of 3 meters, for up to at least 30 minutes. Technically, there is a ninth level of liquid protection, but it isn’t used for consumer electronics products. There is no “X” level for water protection, so you’ll never see an IP code expressed as IP2X, for example — it would be IP20 if no water protection is offered.
Don’t worry, we have some charts further down that lay out all this information clearly if you want to look up specific protection.
Which resistance is right for me? If you’ve already guessed that an IP68 rating is the best you can get for protection from both dust and liquids, congrats, you just aced the first quiz! But in between IP00 and IP68, there’s a lot of variety, so let’s take a look at some specific examples.
IPX2 Dan Baker/Digital Trends With IPX2, your device can withstand a small amount of dripping water without being damaged. Since most of us don’t place our gadgets under leaky faucets very often, in practice, this translates into “moderately sweatproof.” When we reviewed Samsung’s Galaxy Buds truly wireless earbuds — rated for IPX2 — we found they easily survived a 10K run while wedged in the ear canals of a very sweaty person. Do not try to wash these products under running water — it’s better to wipe them with a damp cloth.
IPX4 Bose IPX4 offers decent protection against splashing water. Keep in mind, this isn’t waterproofing — you shouldn’t dunk IPX4 products in water — but it is an excellent degree of protection for ultra-active workouts or even long marathons in inclement weather. Most earbuds, whether wireless or wired, aimed at sports and active lifestyles are IPX4 rated and should have no problem coping with regular use during these activities.
Bose’s Sport Open truly wireless earbuds are IPX4 rated. Again, don’t submerge these products.
IPX6 Image used with permission by copyright holder IPX6 concerns itself with protection from powerful jets of water, which means you can probably take them in the shower with no serious side effects, but don’t make a habit of it. Do not actually put them under the water — don’t go swimming or expect them to necessarily survive an accidental encounter with a toilet bowl. Tile’s Sticker Bluetooth tracker has an IPX7 rating, so you don’t need to worry about using it to track something that gets wet or splashed on.
IPX7/8 Dan Baker/Digital Trends If you’re a complete klutz and have been known to drop your phone, camera, or watch into bodies of water both indoors and out, don’t settle for anything less than IPX7. This will protect your gadget from accidental kerplunks in one meter of water for up to 30 minutes, while IPX8 allows for the same time period of protection in even deeper water (with the exact depth to be specified by the manufacturer).
Bluetooth speakers designed for the water will be rated at least IPX7, such as the waterproof JBL Flip 6 , which you can safely take out into the pool without worrying. Many of our top picks for e-book readers also have X7 or X8 ratings. The iPhone 14 series and the Samsung Galaxy S22 are both IP68 rated, which means no dust will get in, and water will have a hard time, too. These products can be safely rinsed off under gentle running water, but always follow the manufacturer’s instructions.
Water resistance by the numbers Want to get technical? Here’s what the IP water resistance numbers mean, 1 through 9. You’ll note that the descriptions are very lab-friendly in that they make it easy to test these resistances in the laboratory. Real-world results aren’t quite as certain, but these are still useful guidelines.
Level Protection against X No data available 0 None 1 Protected against vertically falling water drops 2 Protected against vertically falling water drops when the enclosure is tilted up to 15 degrees 3 Protected against “spraying” water at an angle up to 60 degrees on either side 4 Protected against “splashing” water from any direction 5 Protected against “water jets” from any direction 6 Protected against powerful “water jets” 7 Protected against the effects of “temporary immersion” in water 8 Protected against the effects of “continuous immersion” in water 9 Protected against “high pressure and temperature” water jets Water submersion by the numbers For true underwater use, where you would take a product snorkeling or scuba diving, you should be looking for a diver’s rating based on the ISO 6425 standard (not the IP standard) for divers’ watches. These products are individually tested and must perform at depths that are 25% deeper than the number claimed on the dial. Watches with these ratings are typically guaranteed by the manufacturer to survive repeated use at these depths for prolonged periods, as well as being able to handle the changes in pressure that accompany the act of descending to and ascending from those depths.
Water resistance rating ISO 6425 Suitability Remarks Water Resistant 3 atm or 30 meters Suitable for everyday use. Splash/rain-resistant.
Not suitable for showering, bathing, swimming, snorkeling, water-related work, fishing, and diving.
Water Resistant 5 atm or 50 meters Suitable for everyday use, showering, bathing, shallow-water swimming, snorkeling, water-related work, fishing. Splash/rain-resistant.
Not suitable for diving.
Water Resistant 10 atm or 100 meters Suitable for recreational surfing, swimming, snorkeling, sailing, and water sports.
Not suitable for diving.
Water Resistant 20 atm or 200 meteres Suitable for professional marine activity, serious surface water sports, and skin diving.
Suitable for skin diving.
Diver’s 100 meters Minimum ISO standard (ISO 6425) for scuba diving at depths not suitable for saturation diving.
Diver’s 100-meter and 150-meter watches are generally old(er) watches.
Diver’s 200 meters or 300 meters Suitable for scuba diving at depths not suitable for saturation diving.
Typical ratings for contemporary diver’s watches.
Diver’s 300-plus meters for mixed-gas diving Suitable for saturation diving (helium-enriched environment).
Watches designed for mixed-gas diving will have the DIVER’S WATCH xxx M FOR MIXED-GAS DIVING additional marking to point this out.
Dust resistance by the numbers We haven’t discussed dust resistance much yet: It’s a simpler standard that’s easier to understand and most useful for those taking their devices out into nature or on active job sites where dust contamination is a possibility. If your device has a numeral in the third IP place, here’s what it means.
Level Protection against X No data available 0 None 1 Protected against solid foreign objects of 50mm and greater 2 Protected against solid foreign objects of 12.5mm and greater 3 Protected against solid foreign objects of 2.5mm and greater 4 Protected against solid foreign objects of 1.0mm and greater 5 Dust-protected 6 Dust-tight The difference between dust-protected and dust-tight may seem vague, but generally, dust-tight is a much more rigorous rating involving dust, airflow, prolonged exposure, and vacuum seals.
FAQ on waterproofing If a product is IPX8, does that mean it’s also good for IPX1-7 too? Not necessarily. Each level of IPX protection can act as its own standard, which is important when separating the differences between protection against jets of water from different angles versus ingression and immersion of water. Sometimes you will run across headphones or earbuds that say something like “IPX5/7,” which means they offer both the jet-proof quality of X5 and the immersion protection of X7. However, devices may simply provide the highest IP number to avoid creating confusion.
Does water or dust damage void my warranty for IP-rated products? Manufacturers may add their own specific descriptions or limitations that you can look at for more information. That includes potential caveats as well. For example, Apple specifically states that liquid damage is not covered under warranty and that resistance can decrease over time through wear and tear — as well as recommends users avoid taking an iPhone surfing, skiing, in the sauna, etc.
Does IPX8 or X9 mean it’s fully waterproof? No. The term “waterproof” is more of an ideal than an actual rating. A genuinely waterproof product would be one that never lets water in under any circumstances. Because that’s rarely the case, we tend to talk more about water resistance. IPX7/8 are intended as ratings for the survival of a gadget after a certain kind of short-term or accidental immersion in water — they are not an indicator that your product is meant to be used continuously under water.
In fact, even when you see products (usually watches) that have a water resistance mark (WR), e.g. 30M, that’s still no guarantee that it will survive in the water. Unless otherwise specified, these products aren’t individually tested, and only one brand-new example product is needed to pass a very basic water immersion test in order for every watch of that design to bear the WR mark.
That being said, some products are clearly designed for frequent submersion in water, like diving watches, outdoor Bluetooth speakers, and headphones for swimmers.
 Water may still damage these devices as they suffer from wear and tear, but they are made with serious water use in mind.
What if my product doesn’t have an IP rating? You’ve probably already noticed that plenty of devices can survive an encounter with water or dust, even if they don’t come with an IP rating from the manufacturer. There’s a good chance you’ve been for a few sweaty runs with your non-rated Apple AirPods, wiped them off, and experienced no problems at all. Sometimes that’s due to good design, and other times, it’s luck. An IP rating is your only true indication that a manufacturer has designed the product to perform under those conditions. But keep in mind — it’s not a guarantee. Always check your product warranty for what is and is not covered.
What if there’s an additional letter on the IP rating? In some cases, an additional letter is used to indicate something else important about the device. This is not common on audio devices, which generally keep things simple. But if you see, for example, a “W” on the IP rating, that means it’s rated for weather conditions. An “F” means the product has oil resistance, an “M” means the device was tested moving in water instead of stationary, and so on. These extra ratings are often found on commercial and factory-oriented gear.
What if there’s an additional number on the IP rating? This doesn’t happen much anymore, although you may encounter it on older devices. An extra number signifies mechanical impact resistance, such as from dropping the device on the ground. It may go from 1 to 10, with 10 being the highest resistance and the highest drop point. This was moved onto its own IK rating some time ago, and many brands use military drop test ratings instead.
Editors' Recommendations The best waterproof Bluetooth speakers for 2023: from JBL, Marshall, and more LG updates its XBoom 360 speaker with better sound, battery, and water resistance How to use AirPods Mobile Wearables Headphones Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
