Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple HomePod Mini review: Finally, the smart speaker Apple needs By John Velasco Close $99.00 Computational audio optimizes the experience Clean-sounding highs and mids Compact size makes it discrete It's the most affordable HomeKit home hub Siri lacks the advanced intelligence of its competitors Short power cord Apple rarely has any misses with its products, especially during the dominant era that began with the release of the first generation iPhone. Time after time, the Cupertino, California-based company has knocked it out of the ballpark, setting the bar in each product category it enters. Products such as the iPod, iPhone , iPad , and AirPods all have shown phenomenal appeal among consumers, but that doesn’t mean that Apple is infallible.
Smaller is better Computational audio at its finest Playing catch-up with the competition Our take The original HomePod is an example of one of those missed opportunities , and its failure impeded Apple’s ambitious efforts in the smart home realm. Pricing was partly to blame — a premium cost of $349 out of the gates made it a tough sell for the masses. But it looks as though Apple has listened to its critics.
Now, though, there appears to be redemption with the HomePod mini.
 Even though Apple has gone smaller with this iteration, don’t let its size fool you, because this decision has grander implications that make it a formidable player in the smart home. And with recent news about its discontinuation , Apple’s future in the smart speaker space is placed on its pint sized offering.
There’s no denying that Apple has something special with the HomePod mini , but there are several more impressive smart speakers to consider if you’re in the market of buying one. If you happen to already own one, then you may be surprised by some of the neat stuff it could do.
Smaller is better Gone is the cylindrical, hulking design of the original HomePod, replaced by a more subtle appearance thanks to its spherical shape. It’s adorned with the same fabric mesh material as its predecessor — something I wasn’t too thrilled about because my cats thought of it as a scratching post. But thanks to its smaller size, it better fits into tighter, smaller spaces and away from the cats’ reach. Eventually, I decided to place it on my entertainment center in the living room, where it doesn’t overwhelm the rest of the stuff there.
John Velasco / Digital Trends The HomePod mini features a backlit touch-sensitive lid. Its animation of Siri listening and responding adds a slick look to it, but it still can’t pry my eyes from the Echo’s LED light ring. Around the back is its power cord that ends with a USB-C connection. Surprisingly, it doesn’t appear that the cord itself is removable. Since the original HomePod’s cord could be removed with a bit of tugging, I thought the same would apply here — but that doesn’t seem to be the case. On top of that, the length of the cord is fairly short, which means that it needs to be placed near an outlet.
Don’t just buy one, buy two because this year’s HomePod mini won’t drain your wallet.
Apple’s decision to go small is interesting. You would think its size makes it a rival to the Nest Mini and Echo Dot , but it’s actually meant to compete in the midrange class.
Computational audio at its finest If you’re all about raw audio power, then the original HomePod is the logical choice for you. You should stop now if that’s your sole priority. That’s because the HomePod mini’s performance won’t come close to the original’s raw power. Where the HomePod mini truly comes alive is in how convincing computational audio is able to analyze and fine-tune whatever it’s playing.
John Velasco / Digital Trends From a specs point of view, the HomePod mini’s full-range driver and dual passive radiators won’t make audiophiles drool all that much. It’s actually the combination of Apple’s S5 chip and computational audio that delivers a tantalizing and convincing audio experience. The HomePod mini doesn’t disappoint for its size, producing ample mids and highs that don’t get drowned out by the lows. In fact, the focus on the mids and highs becomes even more apparent when the volume is cranked up — it never loses touch with them, nor does the bass ever sound strained.
If there’s one critique I have about the audio quality is that the HomePod mini’s in control of the audio tuning. There’s no way to customize or adjust for my particular preference. It’s not a deal-breaker, but I still would appreciate some level of control over things such as the treble and bass.
John Velasco / Digital Trends Back to my point about computational audio. It’s most evident when I paired the HomePod mini to my Apple TV 4K for watching videos. Unlike my soundbar, which seems to favor the sound effects and scores over dialogue, the computational audio appropriately tones down the score and sound effects whenever there’s dialogue — so I can actually comprehend what people are saying. This kind of intelligent adjustment is also useful when commercials play, given that my soundbar has a tendency to jack up the volume when they play. With the HomePod mini, however, the volume remains consistent. If this is what computational audio is all about, then I’m all-in.
Playing catch-up with the competition First and foremost, the HomePod mini is the most affordable home hub for Apple HomeKit devices in the home.
 You need it in order for your HomeKit devices to communicate with your requests when you’re away, outside of your home’s network. Prior to this, the only other alternatives were the pricier Apple TV HD ($149), Apple TV 4K ($179), and HomePod ($299). You can also use an iPad, but I typically don’t recommend this because you want your home hub to remain stationary at the home — so the iPad is the least-qualified candidate in my opinion.
Siri still has a lot of catching up to do, which is reflective in how she lacks the accomplishments of her peers. Google Assistant continually astounds me for its intelligence, while Amazon Alexa’s can be swapped out for a celebrity voice like Samuel L. Jackson.
 Siri is neither as smart or as funny as the other two virtual assistants, but I really hope that she catches up. For example, it irked me that Siri didn’t want to announce my appointments for the day whenever I ask. After some troubleshooting and enabling the personal requests option in the Home app, it worked like a charm. Just remember to have that option enabled, or else Siri won’t announce it on the HomePod mini.
John Velasco / Digital Trends Despite this, there are other features I found useful. Take the intercom feature that allows me to play an audio message on all my connected HomePod speakers in my apartment. It’s great when you don’t want to shout from the kitchen to someone else in another room that dinner is ready. There are also the proximity controls, which allow me to hand off something I’m listening to on my iPhone to my HomePod mini — all by placing my iPhone above the touch-sensitive surface of the HomePod mini. Seamless features that allow different gadgets to talk with one another like this is what Apple’s known for, and proximity controls are proof of that.
There’s also the matter regarding app support. Currently, music listeners only have a handful of options to choose from when it comes to streaming from an iPhone to a HomePod mini. Apple Music and Pandora conveniently work like a charm, but many other third-party apps like YouTube Music are absent.
The HomePod mini is the speaker that Apple should have released first.
In the past year, we’ve seen more and more HomeKit-compatible smart home devices, ranging from smart locks to cameras.
 The lack of compatible devices undeniably mitigated consumer appeal for making Siri the virtual assistant of choice in the home, but things have gotten better. While Apple still trails Google and Amazon when it comes to total supported devices, there’s a higher degree of security and privacy to using HomeKit devices.
John Velasco / Digital Trends That’s the untold story you won’t hear too much about in the smart home wars. Apple doesn’t require its users to install a new app, or sign up for an account in order to use these smart home devices. All that’s needed is for you to set them up through the Home app and that’s it.
Our take The HomePod mini is the speaker that Apple should have released first. The company would be in a far better situation in the smart home market if that were the case. Regardless of that, its $99 cost makes it an appealing offering that’s better positioned to bring Siri to the home. Sure, it’s not as smart or as powerful as some of the other smart speakers out there, but it doesn’t need to be because its computational audio, subtle design, and HomeKit home hub functionality make it a logical choice for many more Apple users this time around.
How long will it last? Much like all of Apple’s devices, the HomePod mini is solidly built. The mesh fabric should hold up if it’s left undisturbed, but the fabric-like material is prone to stains if something were to lightly spill on it.
Apple offers a one-year limited warranty that covers defects, but you can also purchase AppleCare+ for the HomePod mini, which will effectively extend the coverage for two years and cover two instances of accidental damage.
Is there a better alternative? You bet. For the same cost, the Google Nest Audio has a commanding presence in the audio department. Audiophiles will appreciate its resounding and more powerful audio performance, while the Amazon Echo (4th Gen) carves out a middle ground between design, performance, and compatibility with other smart home devices.
Should you buy it? Don’t just buy one, buy two because this year’s HomePod mini won’t drain your wallet. Plus, you’ll be amazed by what computational audio is capable of delivering if you’re a home theater buff.
Editors' Recommendations Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? Apple might launch a HomePod smart display in 2024 Apple HomePod Mini vs. Apple HomePod Apple finally activates HomePod Mini’s hidden temperature/humidity sensor Apple reportedly working on a new iPad-like smart home display Apple Audio / Video Apple Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Speaker Reviews Speakers Smart Home The Apple HomePod Mini and Echo Dot are two of the best smart speakers of 2023. Both clock in at less than $100, offer eye-catching designs, and give you all the versatility you’d expect from top-of-the-line smart speakers. But which speaker is more deserving of a spot in your home? Before picking up the HomePod Mini or Echo Dot, you’ll want to do a bit of research. It's hard to go wrong with either product, but one might be a slightly better fit for your household. From pricing and compatibility to sound quality and more, here’s everything you need to know about these two smart speakers.
Design Smart Home While you're shopping around for the best smart light, you may be trying to find the ones that play the nicest with your Apple devices. HomeKit compatibility helps you manage your smart lights alongside all other devices in the home from a common interface. This way, you can have seamless automation and control of everything in the house. Smart lights, in particular, have great control options through the Home apps for iOS, iPadOS, and macOS, including full Siri support for hands-free commands.
Smart Home One of the biggest announcements of WWDC 2022 is that the Apple Home app is getting a much-needed ground-up redesign.
The new app changes how you navigate through the app and organize accessories, but the most important change is that you can now see your entire home from a single view. There's no more jumping between menus to check things -- you can view every connected device, including multiple camera views, from within a single page.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
