Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Reviews Google Nest Audio review: Big muscles, strong results By John Velasco Close $100.00 Superb audio performance Charming design for any decor Adapts audio quality to any room Attractive $100 cost Dense weight Too complacent with feature upgrades It’s been nearly four years since the launch of the Google Home, and during that time, we’ve seen how smart speakers have helped foster the smart home’s growth. Google’s own portfolio grew tremendously with the addition of speakers both big and small. And beyond that, we’ve seen a handful of other useful smart home gadgets come out from the company.
Deceptively dense More muscle for music Too complacent Our take The introduction of the Google Nest Audio , which many consider the spiritual successor to the Google Home , is coming to us at an interesting time. While sales for smart speakers continue to beat expectations, last year’s Google Nest Mini wasn’t the grandiose upgrade we were hoping for — and the Google Nest Audio is going to receive the same scrutiny.
Google Home and Google Nest deals: Hub, thermostat, cameras on sale Google Home adds support for Nest Cam Indoor The most common Google Nest Mini problems and how to fix them Those who took the plunge early on and invested in the Google Home were treated to a new way of interacting with the smart home. Now the question is whether the Nest Audio has enough goodies to convince people to make the upgrade.
Deceptively dense Taking the Google Nest Audio out of the packaging, the first thing that stood out for me was its weight. I was surprised by how densely packed it is, tipping the scales at a whopping 2.65 lbs. In contrast, the Google Home feels super lightweight at 1.05 lbs.
There’s a reason why it’s so heavy, though. From the outside, all there is to see is the fabric mesh material wrapping around the entirety of the speaker. It gives it a more neutral look, especially when combined with its tic-tac shape. Underneath the exterior, however, the Google Nest Audio features a metal chassis made of aluminum and magnesium — which explains why it feels so dense for its size. At such a hefty weight, it makes me a bit concerned about what would happen if it were to fall.
John Velasco / Digital Trends Google’s approach to a sustainable future is again on full display with the Nest Audio (always a good thing), as the enclosure is made from 70% recycled plastic. Its clean facade makes me wonder how well the exterior will hold up if it’s placed somewhere more active — like the kitchen countertop perhaps, where it would be exposed to potential spills, splatters, and other hazards that can dirty it up.
Embedded within the mesh fabric material on the front are the LEDs that come to life whenever you initiate Google Assistant or adjust its audio. Unfortunately, it lacks the Nest Mini’s ultrasound sensors that detect when your hand comes close to the speaker and automatically illuminates the LEDs. Adjusting the speaker’s volume is easy — just tap the corresponding touch-sensitive areas. The top- left corner lowers the volume, the top-right increases it, and the middle area acts as a pause/play function. In the rear, you’ll find a mute switch to cut its microphone and a proprietary power port.
The natural look of the design meshes nicely with almost any decor Google’s design of the Nest Audio can be best described as a Google Home Max with a vertical, upright design. The natural look of the design meshes nicely with almost any decor.
More muscle for music The internal components make this a vastly superior speaker for music. With a 19mm tweeter and 75mm mid-woofer, Google says that the Nest Audio is 76% louder and has a 50% boost in bass over the Google Home.
 And you know what? Its audio performance speaks to that claim.
John Velasco / Digital Trends Don’t get me wrong, the Google Home sounded amazing, but I often found that its bass performance crackled at higher volume levels. There’s none of that whatsoever with the Nest Audio, which produces ample bass without distortion. Google specifically tunes the Nest Audio for a more neutral tone, resulting in a sound that balances the lows, mids, and highs. While this will appease some audiophiles, others may prefer a more bassy tone — which is why I appreciate controls for bass and treble adjustment in the Google Home app.
Similar to the Google Home Max, as well as Apple’s HomePod and Amazon’s Echo Studio , the Nest Audio leverages a couple new features that allow it to adjust its audio quality to any room. Media EQ allows the Nest Audio to adapt to whatever content you’re listening to (music, podcast, or Google Assistant ), while Ambient IQ allows it to adjust its volume when there are sources of noise that come close to it, like a hair dryer, for example. If you approach closer to the Nest Audio, it’ll automatically increase the volume on its own — and subsequently lower it if you move farther away.
Ultimately, the Nest Audio is a superb choice for any audiophile. Its room-filling sound strikes a balance between clarity and bass, which can be made better by either pairing it with another Nest Audio for stereo output, or adding it to a speaker group. In the current lineup, it’s positioned between the Nest Mini and Home Max, making it an ideal choice for anyone who loves music, but doesn’t want to pay the heftier price of the Home Max.
Too complacent So far, I can’t say enough positive things about the Google Nest Audio. But I feel that we’re getting to a point of complacency with smart speakers, and the Nest Audio is a prime example of this. Each iterative smart speaker we’ve seen, whether it’s from Amazon or Google, tends to be better-equipped for audio — and that’s what we expect in any successive gadget.
John Velasco / Digital Trends If we’re to look at the core functions, they don’t differ from Google Home.
 They grace us with the intelligence of Google Assistant , provide us with hands-free control of the smart home, and help drown out the background noise with their exceptional audio performances. That’s where it all stops, which is why I feel that the Nest Audio is too complacent.
There’s no denying that it’s capable of doing a lot of things. From making phone calls to ordering your favorite pizza pie , the Nest Audio has an extensive list of functions. However, it’s no different from past Google Assistant-enabled smart speakers. I would’ve loved to see it do more! I feel that the Nest Audio is too complacent.
Perhaps being able to group several of them for true surround sound for watching movies at home? Or maybe integrate the functions of the new Chromecast , so the Nest Audio can connect to a TV and bring the Android TV experience. This is a fundamental problem that smart speakers will continue to face, unless they branch out and become more multifunctional.
Our take It’s hard to not like the Google Nest Audio. Priced ideally at $100, it packs a substantial audio punch over the $50 Nest Mini, and it even can compete against the $300 Google Home Max. It’s perfect for audiophiles who crave good-sounding audio.
How long will it last? Because it’s meant to be stationary, the chances of it out having issues should be slim. But its dense weight could lead to damage if t’s dropped. If you’re worried about defects, there’s a 1-year limited warranty that covers parts and labor.
Is there a better alternative? The $100 cost of the Nest Audio makes it significantly more appealing than, say, the $300 Google Home Max — so it’s hard to recommend any other Google Assistant-powered smart speaker for music. It’s also a better buy than the Google Nest Mini. But if you already own the Google Home , it may be a tougher call to upgrade given that the only real difference is the audio performance.
Not a fan of Google Assistant ? Then the recently announced Amazon Echo (4th Gen) is the logical recommendation if you prefer Alexa instead.
Should you buy it? You bet. Google’s investment in making it a more comprehensive speaker makes it a solid buy at $100.
Editors' Recommendations 8 Google Assistant settings you should disable or adjust Google’s Nest Aware service is getting more expensive The best Google Home tips, tricks, and Easter eggs Your Google smart home devices just got a lot less talkative The Nest Thermostat is the first smart thermostat with Matter support Audio / Video Google Google Nest Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Speakers Wireless & Bluetooth Speaker Reviews Smart Home Google Assistant is one of the most popular smart home assistants of 2023, but it looks like big changes are in store for the remainder of the year. According to an updated support page, Google won’t be pushing any more Assistant updates to select third-party smart displays.
The Lenovo Smart Display, LG Xboom AI ThinQ WK9, and JBL Link View are the three smart displays in question -- and if you currently have them in your home, don’t expect to see further updates for their Assistant platform. They will, of course, continue to function as they did before this announcement, but they won’t receive any more software updates to enhance their performance.
Smart Home Google has partnered with ADT to bring its lineup of smart home gadgets to a new DIY home security system -- ADT Self Setup. The unique package allows you to choose from a variety of Google devices to add to your home, all of which offer full support for the new ADT+ smartphone app.
The goal of the collaboration is to offer the customer service and security of ADT with the premium products developed by Google. The ADT Self Setup system can be modified to include the Nest Cam, Nest Thermostat, Nest Mini, Nest Hub Max, Nest Doorbell, and several first-party ADT products like the ADT Motion Sensor and ADT Smart Home Hub.
Smart Home Google Home is at the heart of Google’s smart home ecosystem. From video doorbells and security cameras to smart thermostats and smart speakers, Google Home gives you the versatility needed to control everything in your house. There’s a lot of nuance to the system, but getting started is simple -- just download the Google Home app to your smartphone, sync a compatible device, and you’re ready to start optimizing your daily routines.
Here's a closer look at everything you need to know about Google Home.
What is Google Nest, and how does it work with Google Home? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
