Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sonos wins patent lawsuit, Pixel phones and other Google devices face sales ban By Nadeem Sarwar Close Google and Sonos have been locked in a long-drawn legal battle over patent infringement, with both parties suing each other over the years , but it appears that Sonos has finally gained an upper hand in that tussle. As per a report from The New York Times , a trade court has ruled that Google did violate laws by illegally using Sonos’ patented audio technologies used in smart home and audio devices.
An old feud nearing conclusion And the award for awkward timing goes to… A cease and desist order has been issued against Google by the United States Internation Trade Commission. As per the ruling, all products that infringe on patented technology should be banned from being imported into the United States. And the list of products that fall under the Sonos-Google battle is huge.
Sonos has accused Google of infringing on over 100 patents and alleges that Google didn’t sign a licensing deal to use them.
Samsung Galaxy S20 Plus vs. Google Pixel 4 XL: Which big phone wins? Google pits design teams against each other to create next winning Pixel phone Sonos has asked the federal agency to block all products that allegedly use its proprietary technology in violation of patent laws, and they include smart speakers under the Google Home and Nest family, Chromecast, Pixel phones, and even PixelBook computers. The commission’s ruling also directs Google to stop the sale of contentious products that it already has in its inventory on American soil.
Sonos has accused Google of infringing on over 100 patents and alleges that Google didn’t sign a licensing deal to use them. For the unaware, a licensing deal allows one company to use another company’s patented technology in its products in exchange for a fee. It is what the industry classifies as patent royalties. In this case, Google allegedly put Sonos’ technology into its hardware without permission or paying a fee.
Sonos is now seeking damages from Google for the same.
However, this is not the end of the road, and Google products won’t get outright banned from entering the United States. The final decision is now in the presidential hands. If the Joe Biden administration vetoes Sonos’s request, Google won’t face a hardware import ban. However, it must happen in the next 60 days, as per a Bloomberg report. If Google fails to earn presidential favor, Home hardware and Pixel phones among others will legally be prohibited from being sold in the United States. Google’s hopes now rest with the presidential review, but it can also contest the ruling in the country’s top patent court.
It has been suspected – but not confirmed – that Android &#39;s implementation of remote volume button control of Cast devices was in violation of one of Sonos&#39;s audio patents, which may be why the feature was initially disabled in Android 12.
&mdash; Mishaal Rahman (@MishaalRahman) January 6, 2022 The latest ruling is based on five key patents. The patents involve an audio device’s ability to pair up with more units for creating a stereo system. They also talk about a system to remotely control the volume of a single or group of synchronized speakers. If that sounds familiar, it’s because Android already offers a trick to do so while casting audio to connected speakers. Google denies that it illegally copied the aforementioned features for its own ecosystem of devices.
Here’s the more interesting part: Google redesigned some of the key functionalities that cover audio synchronization for smart speakers. The company described these changes in ITC filings that were spotted by Bloomberg in September last year. Doing so would allow Google to operate outside the boundaries of Sonos’ patented technology. In simple words, there won’t be any patent infringement.
However, the downgrade would mean the user experience will take a hit. As per a 9to5Google report, volume controls for Google Home speakers connected in a stereo system were broken for some users. It was rumored that this might be a result of Google intentionally killing some features that Sonos had objected to in its patent lawsuit.
Google views this as a politically opportunistic shakedown.
Sonos views this as big tech finally having to pay up for the IP it&#39;s lifted.
This is a religious debate, and not one that is likely to end soon.
&mdash; David Ruddock (@RDRv3) January 6, 2022 An old feud nearing conclusion The roots of Google’s feud go far back. Sonos alleges that it shared details of its patented technology with Google in 2013, but the two companies reportedly couldn’t come to terms with licensing deals. Instead, Google started making its own smart home hardware under the Home brand two years after that — but there’s another twist here.
At one point, Sonos was working on a tech called Concurrency that would allow multiple AI assistants like Google’s own and Amazon’s Alexa to work on the same device and remain active simultaneously. As per The Washington Post , Google reportedly didn’t like the idea after Sonos gave a demonstration to its team.
Furthermore, Google reportedly blocked Sonos from bringing the product to the market, citing some distribution agreement terms. Apparently, Google was not okay with allowing another virtual assistant to share the stage (read: compete) with Google Assistant on the same device.
Sonos Voice VP Joseph Dureau later confirmed to The Protocol that it was indeed working on such a technology.
Had the two companies embraced the Concurrency tech, we might have better smart speakers in the market on which Google Assistant, Alexa, and even Bixby could co-exist. Sonos is reportedly working on its own voice assistant that will work alongside Alexa on smart speakers, but it won’t co-exist with Google Assistant.
 Call it revenge, but it does sound fair.
And the award for awkward timing goes to… In the words of @rihanna “please don’t stop the music” and thanks to Chromecast being built-in to more devices you don’t have to. Simply cast your music and podcasts from your #Android phone to more speakers starting with @Bose in the next few months.
#CES2022 pic.twitter.com/XByyeUwlEu &mdash; Android (@ Android ) January 6, 2022 As the Google-Sonos drama unfolds, a major announcement has arrived at a rather awkward time. Google has announced that users will soon be able to stream their music directly to Bose speakers from their Android phones. That’s because Bose speakers are embracing built-in Chromecast and will be hitting the shelves in the next few months.
Editors' Recommendations Sonos One vs. Google Nest Audio: which is the best smart speaker? The best cases on sale for your new iPhone 11, Galaxy S10, and Google Pixel 4 Walmart drops prices on Google Home devices for early Mother’s Day sale Smart Home Google Sonos Tech News Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Mobile Amazon Fire tablets may not be as powerful as Apple's iPads and Samsung's Galaxy Tabs, but they remain very popular among shoppers because they're relatively affordable options that provide sufficient performance for day-to-day use. If you want to stick to a tight budget when buying from Black Friday tablet deals, you should consider going for one of the several models of the Amazon Fire tablet, available in Amazon Black Friday deals. To help you make a quick decision so you can finalize your purchase before the discounts go offline, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals for Amazon Fire tablets, including our favorite bargain.
Amazon has a ton of early discounts right now, including Amazon Echo Black Friday deals and Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals.
The best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
