The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand iPhone Over the past ten years, Apple’s iPhone has become the company’s most valuable —and recently, somewhat volatile— asset. Since its introduction in 2007, the iPhone helped to jumpstart the smartphone revolution, and with it came some big innovations. The App Store, touchscreen gaming, the mass adoption of social media, and protecting user data with biometrics. Its product lineup is enmeshed in Apple’s ecosystem, and the impact that it continues to have around the globe is vast.
Featured stories iOS 17.1 arrives with updates to AirDrop, Apple Music, and more The minor update follows the release of iOS 17 last month and includes a fix for the iPhone 12’s regulatory issues in France.
| Comments 8 Verge Score Apple iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max review: by the numbers Apple didn’t choose the USB-C life, but boy are we glad it got here anyway.
| Comments iPhone iPhone Bellroy’s iPhone 15 Pro case has a proper Action Button now | Comments External Link Apple will support RCS on iPhones in 2024 , and the company confirmed to 9to5Mac on Thursday that RCS messages will show up as green bubbles.
Hopefully the huge benefits of RCS over SMS make the blue bubble vs. green bubble debate less of a thing, though.
[9to5Mac] Apple Apple Using your iPhone to start your car is about to get a lot easier | Comments Advertisement Advertisement Advertiser Content Following an in-depth report from the Wall Street Journal in September, this update from Bloomberg may further explain why Apple recently extended its deal for Qualcomm modems.
It says Apple already delayed a plan to have the chips ready next year, and now they might not launch in new iPhones until the end of 2025 or in 2026. Issues mentioned include rewriting software it acquired from Inte l (one person quoted anonymously said, “Why we thought we could take a failed project from Intel and somehow succeed is a mystery,” and avoiding infringing on Qualcomm’s patents.
Twitter Today is the deadline for Apple to argue to EU regulators that iMessage shouldn’t be designated as a core platform service.
It’s therefore extremely likely it revealed the iPhone will support RCS to please regulators, and not as a response to Nothing’s blue-bubble-on-Android news from yesterday. That’s not stopping CEO Carl Pei from taking a victory lap, earned or unearned. Never change, Carl.
Apple Apple Apple says iPhones will support RCS in 2024 | Comments Apple Apple iPhone 15 owners are having wireless charging issues in GM vehicles, too | Comments iPhone iPhone 1,000 photos later, and the iPhone 15 Pro Max is still missing something | Comments Apple Apple The new FineWoven iPhone cases are very bad | Comments iPhone iPhone Qi2’s MagSafe-like wireless charging is finally almost here | Comments Tech Tech The best iPhones | Comments Apple Apple Apple is giving iPhone 14 owners an extra year of free Emergency SOS services | Comments TikTok Marking a year since Apple’s Emergency SOS via satellite service became available in the US and Canada, anyone who activated their free trial prior to November 15th now has an additional year of free access.
If you haven’t done so already, here’s how to set it up.
Apple Apple The iPhone 15 Pro is getting spatial video capture in iOS 17.2 | Comments Here are the features Apple didn’t announce in the WWDC keynote Here’s everything we could find for the iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple Watch that didn’t get screen time.
| Comments $40 buys a mount that magnetically attaches your iPhone to your car’s vents , $80 gets a model that wirelessly charges your device in the process , and $60 gets a 70W dual USB-C GaN charger for your car. Nomad’s accessories can be a little pricey compared to some competitors , but their build quality can make them worthwhile.
If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission.
See our ethics statement.
1/3 Apple Apple This little tool can crash an iPhone running iOS 17 | Comments Apple Apple Apple’s iPhone lineup is selling well, but the Mac is in a serious rough patch | Comments Youtube If you ever wondered what those symbols mean — and, like me, never bothered to look them up — now you can get that info right from your iPhone. (Thanks to 9to5Mac ’s Fernando Silva for alerting me of the feature) Apple Apple Apple can’t block iPhone ‘throttling’ lawsuit, London court rules | Comments For all we’ve written on this website about the [deep breath] Belkin BOOST↑CHARGE PRO™ 2-in-1 Wireless Charging Dock with MagSafe and the Anker 3-in-1 Cube with MagSafe , nobody noticed this crucial detail. That ends today.
Youtube Apple has released behind-the-scenes footage of its recent “Scary Fast” Mac event that explains how the show was shot on the iPhone 15 Pro Max.
The tech giant says it utilized the free Blackmagic Camera app , which features the same interface as Blackmagic film cameras that are used in the movie and TV industry. Oh, and thousands of dollars worth of professional studio equipment of course.
Apple Apple Here’s what Apple really means when it says ‘shot on iPhone’ | Comments Gadgets Gadgets Belkin’s new 2-in-1 charging dock might blend into your bedroom | Comments Tech Tech Apple says BMW wireless chargers really are messing with iPhone 15s | Comments Youtube Like many others , Stern noticed that her iPhone 14 Pro’s battery health went down faster than expected after just one year, so she did some investigation as to why that might be for an article and a video.
Here’s hoping the iPhone 15 Pro’s battery doesn’t deplete as fast as the 14’s.
External Link The iOS 17.2 beta adds a new translate option for the Action Button on the iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max. According to 9to5Mac , using the shortcut lets you translate a spoken conversation via Apple’s Translate app. That makes for a total of 10 different Action Button options so far.
[9to5Mac] Tech Tech Apple’s iOS 17.2 beta includes the new Journal app | Comments External Link iOS 17.1 included fixes to make the iPhone 12 legal in France again , but in some French territories, it’s still not for sale. However, Apple is planning a future update for those territories “by the end of this year,” according to a machine-translated version of a webpage by French regulator ANFR.
[www.anfr.fr] External Link Over the last couple weeks I’ve been keeping an eye on a lengthy thread over at MacRumors , in which more than a few people have reported burn-in — or at least some degree of very noticeable image retention — on Apple’s iPhone 15 lineup.
Today, Apple rolled out its release candidate beta build of the upcoming iOS 17.1 software update. And right in the changelog, Apple confirms this latest build “fixes an issue that may cause display image persistence.” It never made any sense that brand new iPhone displays could start exhibiting burn-in so quickly. Sure enough, early reports indicate that any image retention that was present pre-update has now cleared up. Those OLED panels were never defective after all.
[MacRumors] Tech Tech The best phone to buy right now | Comments External Link It’s annoying when you have to update your new smartphone right after you buy it, right? Mark Gurman wrote in his Power On newsletter for Bloomberg today that Apple Stores will start getting a “proprietary pad-like device” this year that, when employees put a box of unopened iPhones on it, will prompt the phones to turn on, update themselves, then turn off.
Neat! [Bloomberg] Youtube “What an awesome feature that borks your footage for you so you don’t have to bork it yourself.” DankPods remains undefeated.
Tech Tech Filed under: The Verge Guide to the iPhone How to change the alert sounds on your iPhone | Comments Deals Deals Filed under: The Verge Guide to Amazon’s October Prime Day event The best phone deals of Prime Big Deal Days | Comments Apple Apple The iPhone 12 will soon be legal in France again | Comments External Link According to code in the latest iOS 17.1 beta found by 9to5Mac , when your iPhone is in your pocket, it will sense that and require a longer press on the Action Button to do whatever you’ve set for the button. That seems like a decent change, though I hope Apple focuses more on ways to customize what you can do with the button in future updates.
[9to5Mac] Deals Deals Filed under: The Verge Guide to Amazon’s October Prime Day event Belkin’s StandBy-ready charging puck is on sale for just $14 right now Jon Bitner | Comments Youtube Having already applied their screwdrivers and other tools to the iPhone 15 Pro , the folks at iFixit have now turned to the base iPhone 15 model , even looking at its internals under a microscope.
They also point out that these models lack the Pro version’s A17 chipset with an integrated USB controller that enables higher USB-C transfer speeds but still ding the phones for Apple’s software locks that hamper repairability outside of authorized shops with access to the company’s pairing tools.
And, of course, you can watch our storystream to follow all of the updates about the iPhone 15 lineup.
Pagination More Stories Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Apple says iPhones will support RCS in 2024 Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs A hefty stable Steam Deck update gives the Dock a brand-new feature Google’s new Titan security keys are ready for a world without passwords Installer / A weekly newsletter about the best and Verge-iest stuff you should know about.
Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
