Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews JBL Bar 5.0 Multibeam soundbar review: Add a little Dolby Atmos to your life By Simon Cohen Close $350.00 Simple and easy to use Dolby Atmos AirPlay Chromecast No EQ settings Bass can't compete with subwoofers As the soundbar category rapidly grows, with more and more options and prices, there’s a tendency for these devices to get complicated. Wireless subwoofers, satellite surround speakers, and even voice assistants are all part of the mix now, making your purchase decision harder than ever.
What’s in the box? Design Controls and connections Setting up Chromecast, AirPlay, and Alexa Sound quality Our take The $350 JBL Bar 5.0 Multibeam is, by comparison, relatively simple and affordable, and yet it’s still packed with useful features and solid sound quality. Best of all, it offers one of the easiest ways to dip your toes into Dolby Atmos , the immersive, 3D surround sound format that is rapidly becoming a standard for both streaming movies and streaming music.
Bose’s new flagship Dolby Atmos soundbar brings AI smarts to the dialogue problem Samsung adds HW-Q900C to its lineup of 2023 Dolby Atmos soundbars JBL reveals its new flagship soundbar at CES 2023: 15 channels and 1170W of Dolby Atmos power Is it the right soundbar for you? Let’s check it out.
What’s in the box? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends JBL throws in everything you need: The soundbar, a power cable, an HDMI cable, a slender remote with two AA batteries, a set of wall-mount brackets with a mounting template, and a quick-start guide. There’s one small foam wrapper that protects the soundbar, but the majority of the packaging is recyclable.
Design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The JBL Bar 5.0 Multibeam is easy to like: At 27.9-inches wide and 2.4-inches tall, it’s very compact for a home theater soundbar and should be able to sit in front of most TVs without obscuring the bottom of the screen.
Its satin-finish black plastic housing disappears entirely when the lights go down and barely draws any attention to itself when the lights are on. To me, that’s the ideal design for a soundbar.
There are four top-mounted controls for power, volume, and source selection, but you’ll likely end up using the included remote most of the time.
Far too many soundbars require that you give up one of your TV’s HDMI ports, but not the Bar 5.0.
Hidden behind the speaker grille is an LED display that actually scrolls full-text messages or numbers so you can see exactly what’s going on (unlike some soundbars from Vizio , which use a series of colored dots). There’s no way to adjust the display’s brightness, but it automatically turns itself off within a few seconds of any settings changes, so it won’t be a distraction while watching your shows or movies.
The remote is a bare-bones affair. Ultra-lightweight, and with only a handful of buttons, it’s easy to use and comfortable to hold.
My only small gripe is that the labels are small and there’s no backlight, so you may have to spend a few moments memorizing what the buttons do so you can use them when it’s dark.
Controls and connections Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Around the back of the JBL Bar 5.0 Multibeam, you’ll find a USB port that can be used for music playback from hard drives or flash drives. It also pumps out 5 volts at 5 milliamps, which might just be enough to power a streaming stick like an Amazon Fire TV Stick or a Roku device.
You’ll also need to use the USB port for doing firmware updates. Given that the soundbar can connect to Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, I don’t know why JBL forces you to use the USB port, but I guess you can’t have everything at this price.
There’s an optical input and a pair of HDMI ports. This is a nice touch: Far too many soundbars require that you give up one of your TV’s HDMI ports for their HDMI ARC or eARC connection, and they don’t provide an HDMI input to make up for it.
The Bar 5.0’s HDMI input can passthrough 4K and Dolby Vision HDR , which is exactly what you’ll need if you want to connect a streaming media device that can accommodate these video formats.
As I indicated above, the soundbar can connect to Wi-Fi (2.4 and 5GHz bands), and it has Bluetooth 4.2 for receiving audio streams from a phone, tablet, or other Bluetooth devices.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Using these wireless capabilities is entirely optional and won’t affect the Bar 5.0’s basic functionality in any way. JBL doesn’t make a smartphone app for this soundbar, so even if you do set up Wi-Fi, it won’t give you any extra settings or controls.
Getting going with the Bar 5.0 couldn’t be easier.
However, I do strongly recommend setting up Wi-Fi, as it offers far better sound quality for music streaming than Bluetooth. More on that later.
If your home Wi-Fi isn’t especially good, or you happen to have an Ethernet cable nearby, there’s an Ethernet port, too.
Setting up Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Getting going with the Bar 5.0 couldn’t be easier. Plug it into your TV’s HDMI ARC or eARC port with the included HDMI cable, then plug it into a power outlet, and you’re done. If your TV doesn’t support HDMI ARC, you’ll need to buy an optical cable. If you go the optical cable route, keep in mind that you’ll be limited to Dolby Digital 5.1 audio from your TV, because Dolby Atmos isn’t compatible with optical connections.
JBL has designed the Bar 5.0 to be compatible with all three major wireless smart home ecosystems, which is brilliant.
But don’t be too alarmed: If you plug an Apple TV 4K , Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K, or any other streamer that supports Dolby Atmos into the soundbar’s HDMI input, you can still get Dolby Atmos sound — you simply won’t get it from any sources that are plugged into your TV directly.
Chromecast, AirPlay, and Alexa Simon Cohen / Digital Trends JBL has designed the Bar 5.0 to be compatible with all three major wireless smart home ecosystems, which is brilliant. Better yet, you aren’t forced to choose one; the soundbar can be added to Google Home, Apple Home, and the Alex app, and you can switch back and forth between all three if you choose. Most folks will pick just one.
I found it only took a minute or two to add the Bar 5.0 to Google Home so that I could use Chromecast, and setting it up as an AirPlay 2 speaker took only seconds.
Going through this process is easy and totally worth it for the improved audio quality but it’s also very handy if you already own a smart speaker. The Bar 5.0 won’t let you talk to Alexa, Siri, or Google Assistant, but it can be controlled by all three if you have another way to issue voice commands.
Sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The JBL Bar 5.0 Multibeam delivers clear, well-balanced sound that can easily fill a medium-sized bedroom or living space. A simple and easy room calibration function lets the soundbar adjust its settings to match your room’s specific acoustic properties.
Unfortunately, even though you can adjust the Bar 5.0’s bass properties, there are no other EQ settings for the treble or midranges.
But while it’s miles better than your TV speakers, the lack of a dedicated subwoofer means you may need to keep your expectations in check.
All things considered, the bass response is very good. You can adjust the amount of bass via a five-level setting, but even at level five, you won’t get the kind of rumbling low end that we tend to associate with dedicated home theater systems.
It’s not a deal breaker by any means. There’s still more than enough power in the low end to enjoy action movie soundtracks. It can even surprise you at times: In an early scene in Star Wars: Episode IX — The Rise Of Skywalker , Kylo Ren has his first meeting with Emperor Palpatine. Palpatine’s voice resonates with otherworldly power and seems to come from all around the room. It’s thrilling and lets you believe that Ren might just be a little intimidated by Palpatine’s menacing presence despite his show of bravado.
Unfortunately, even though you can adjust the Bar 5.0’s bass properties, there are no other EQ settings for the treble or midranges. Likewise, there are no preset sound modes for movies, music, speech enhancement, or nighttime, which have become fairly standard on the newest soundbars.
As a result, the louder you push the volume, the more shrill the higher frequencies become, and there’s not much you can do to fine-tune it. I found level 19 on the volume scale to be the sweet spot. It’s loud enough to really immerse you in the content, without getting painfully sharp in the highs.
One of the Bar 5.0’s highlight features is its support for Dolby Atmos. Technically speaking, it uses Virtual Dolby Atmos, which means that instead of possessing up-firing drivers that bounce Atmos’ signature height channel sounds at you, the soundbar’s five racetrack-style drivers combine to create a simulated height effect.
No, it’s not as effective as a dedicated Dolby Atmos soundbar like the Sonos Arc , but you can definitely tell the difference, especially when you toggle the Virtual Dolby Atmos processing on and off using the remote.
With Virtual Atmos on, the soundstage becomes wider and taller. Sounds don’t quite zip around the room the way they would with dedicated Atmos speakers, but it really is a more immersive experience than you’d get with a non-Atmos-capable soundbar.
Speaking of Atmos, I strongly recommend finding a way to stream Dolby Atmos Music to the Bar 5.0. This is easiest when using an Apple TV 4K. Not only does the Tidal app deliver Atmos Music (if you subscribe to Tidal’s HiFi tier), but soon, the Apple Music app will do the same.
And listening to Dolby Atmos Music tracks is a joy.
As an experiment, I played The Weeknd’s Blinding Lights four ways using Tidal: First with Bluetooth, then with Chromecast, then with AirPlay, and finally a Dolby Atmos Music version via the Apple TV 4K.
Over Bluetooth, the track sounded thin and even a bit tinny. I found this was true of all Bluetooth streams regardless of the source. Chromecast introduced a big bump in quality, and I could hear the full range of the song. AirPlay actually sounded better still. But the most satisfying version was the Dolby Atmos Music mix, which took full advantage of the soundbar’s immersive capabilities.
When chilling on the couch listening to your favorite tunes, it’s hard to beat a Dolby Atmos mix.
Our take The JBL Bar 5.0 is well-priced and has a great set of useful features. It lacks the ability to adjust its EQ, and it can’t compete with systems that have dedicated subwoofers, but I think most people will love the way it adds an extra dimension to their movies and music, especially when presented in Dolby Atmos.
Is there a better alternative? If you want a more thrilling Dolby Atmos experience, the Vizio M-Series 5.1 multi-speaker soundbar is worth a look. It’s the same price ($350) as the JBL, but it has several components to place around your room, making it a little less convenient. It also lacks Chromecast, AirPlay, and Alexa compatibility.
If Dolby Atmos isn’t as important to you, the slightly more expensive Bose Smart Soundbar 300 offers higher-quality sound, especially for music, and has the added benefit of working as an Alexa or Google Assistant smart speaker.
But if you want the simplicity of a single speaker with many of the benefits that Dolby Atmos offers (and a wealth of connection options) ,we have yet to find a soundbar that can deliver what the Bar 5.0 Multibeam offers at the same price.
How long will it last? JBL makes a quality product, and I expect the Bar 5.0 Multibeam will last as long as you need it to. The ability to update its firmware is also a good indicator that JBL will keep its smart features alive for many years to come.
Should you buy it? Yes. As a simple solution for much better TV sound for small-to-medium-sized rooms, the JBL Bar 5.0 Multibeam is a very solid choice.
Editors' Recommendations The best Dolby Atmos soundbars for 2023 Sennheiser’s Ambeo Soundbar Mini is a pricey, bedroom-sized Dolby Atmos speaker Nakamichi’s wild Dragon 11.4.6 Dolby Atmos soundbar goes up for preorder this week Polk’s latest Dolby Atmos soundbars make for compelling Sonos Arc alternatives Sony’s latest Dolby Atmos soundbar is smart, modular, and one of its most affordable Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Speakers Audio / Video If it's summer, that must mean it's soundbar season. And right on cue, Samsung has announced that almost every soundbar model in its 2022 collection is now available from its website as well as partnering retailers. It's a group of speakers that's heavy on immersive audio thanks to Dolby Atmos support, and most of these models include special features that make them even more attractive if you own or are planning to buy a Samsung smart TV.
We'll first do a roundup of all of the technologies that Samsung is highlighting for 2022, and then we'll get right into the various models, with pricing, availability, and key specifications so you can begin your hunt for the best soundbar for you.
Audio / Video Denon has launched a new version of its most affordable soundbar that is equipped with built-in subwoofers and can reproduce Dolby Atmos content virtually via a 2.1-channel speaker system. The $249 Denon DHT-S217 will be available starting in May from Denon.com and authorized Denon retailers.
The DHT-S217 contains several significant improvements over the DHT-S216, which also sells for $249. The biggest feature is the 217's support for Dolby Atmos content. The soundbar uses virtualization to present Atmos' immersive 3D effect through just a left and right channel, but it should still produce a more effective home theater sound than the S216, which relied on DTS Virtual:X.
Audio / Video Polk has a new model in its MagniFi range of ultra-compact soundbars. The $499 MagniFi Mini AX bears a strong resemblance to its MagniFi siblings, but with one key difference: It supports both Dolby Atmos and DTS:X 3D surround sound formats. The new soundbar goes on sale on March 15 at PolkAudio.com and other official Polk retailers.
Unlike Polk's recently released $399 Signa S4, a more traditional-looking Dolby Atmos soundbar, the MagniFi Mini AX doesn't have dedicated upward-firing drivers to achieve to height sound effects that are the hallmark of both Dolby Atmos and DTS:X. Instead, the speaker virtualizes these channels through its five-driver array, with low-frequency effects being provided by the included wireless subwoofer.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
