Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Monoprice SB-600 Soundbar review: Affordable but average Dolby Atmos By Simon Cohen Close $450.00 Easy setup Clear dialogue Generous number of inputs Semi-wireless surround speakers Distracting display Mediocre Dolby Atmos Poor midrange sound quality For those looking to get a more immersive TV experience, Dolby Atmos soundbars are a tempting upgrade. Boasting an easier, more convenient setup than wiring up a room with an A/V receiver and a bunch of discrete speakers, soundbars just make a lot of sense.
What’s in the box? Design Setup and configuration Sound quality Controls and usability Our take But Dolby Atmos soundbars tend to be pricey affairs thanks to the extra speakers and drivers required to get the full 3D effect that makes Atmos worth having.
Bose’s new flagship Dolby Atmos soundbar brings AI smarts to the dialogue problem DTS Play-Fi wireless audio adds support for Dolby Atmos, DTS:X Nakamichi increases the price of its Dragon 11.4.6 soundbar Monoprice is attempting to do something about that with its very affordable ($450) SB-600 soundbar. Has it succeeded in creating an Atmos experience for everyone? Let’s take a look.
What’s in the box? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Monoprice includes everything you need to get set up with the SB-600. In the box, you’ll find the main soundbar, a wireless subwoofer, a pair of semi-wireless surround speakers (more on these later), a remote, power cables, HDMI and analog cables, wall-mounting hardware, and printed instructions.
The only thing you may need to buy is an optical cable in the event your TV doesn’t support HDMI ARC.
The SB-600 box and packaging is very sustainable as far as soundbars go. It’s mostly plain cardboard, save for three foam inserts that protect the soundbar, and a bunch of poly bags.
Design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The SB-600, like a lot of Monoprice’s products, has a bare-bones vibe. The main soundbar is a simple, black enclosure with a perforated metal grille. At 40 inches wide and three inches in height, it should fit nicely under most TVs without blocking any of the bottom portion of the picture. Other than the small Monoprice and Dolby Atmos badges and the four control buttons on top, it’s a very clean look.
This would be an ideal situation — soundbars should definitely not call attention to themselves — were it not for the bright LED display that hides behind the grille. It lets you know which source you’re using (HDMI 1, 2, ARC, etc.) and despite the fact that the instructions say the display will automatically dim after 10 seconds, our review unit stayed bright the entire time the system was in use, creating an unwanted visual distraction.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The eight-inch wireless subwoofer is a nondescript black box, and at 16.5 inches tall, it’s on par with a lot of other wireless subwoofers in this category. The surround speakers are tiny — about the size of a thick paperback novel.
I love that Monoprice includes wall-mounting hardware with the SB-600, but the brackets that are meant for the surround speakers point them straight out from the wall. If your TV room happens to have side walls located an even distance from the seating area, this isn’t a problem. But if you don’t, there’s no way to pivot the speakers so that they’re aimed at viewers’ heads and not at the front of the room.
The included remote is simple but effective, giving you access to all of the SB-600’s settings and modes in a logical, easy-to-use layout. It’s not backlit, which will make it more awkward to use in a darkened room, but that’s an obvious feature to eliminate if you’re trying to keep the price as low as possible.
Setup and configuration Unlike a lot of soundbars in the $700 to $2,000 range, the SB-600 doesn’t have any Wi-FI connectivity. That’s a bit of a drawback for things like high-quality streaming music, but it sure simplifies the setup.
Something that beats a lot of other soundbars is the SB-600’s generous complement of ports.
Once you’ve connected the main soundbar to power and to your TV via HDMI, and placed/plugged in the subwoofer, all you have to do is find a home for the surround speakers.
Technically, these units are wireless — they don’t need to be tethered to the wireless sub or the soundbar — but they’re not completely wire-free. The right speaker needs to be plugged into power via its AC adapter, and it also needs to be connected to the left speaker via an included 13-foot analog cable.
It’s easy enough — I had no trouble hiding that cable behind our couch which is pushed up against the wall, but I can see this being more of a challenge in other situations. Still, it’s better than the usual surround arrangement required by affordable surround soundbars: Wiring both speakers to the subwoofer, something that is messier and less flexible in terms of placement.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Something else that beats a lot of other soundbars is the SB-600’s generous complement of ports. You get two HDMI inputs, one HDMI ARC output, an optical input, a coaxial digital input, an analog jack, and a USB port for MP3 music playback. There’s also a Bluetooth connection for wireless music streaming.
That’s pretty decent — many soundbars only have a single HDMI ARC port, which means you’ll end up sacrificing an HDMI port on your TV, with no way to gain that port back without the use of an HDMI switcher. Those two HDMI ports are also 4K HDR-compatible and support Dolby Vision , so you won’t have to worry about getting the highest-quality signal to your TV.
Sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If you’re moving from your TV’s integrated (and probably terrible) speakers, the SB-600 will be a big step up. Between the main soundbar’s six drivers, the wireless sub, and the surrounds, you get a way better sense of immersion than a TV can offer, with very clear sound that can also get very loud if you wish.
Dialogue sounds clear and crisp. If you have trouble making out speech, the SB-600 can help.
But the SB-600 suffers from two distinct drawbacks. First, it lacks a decent midrange. Even after playing with the built-in EQ modes (movie, music, dialogue, sports) and altering the bass and treble levels, I couldn’t get the system to feel full and warm.
My guess is that there’s simply too big of a gap between the target frequencies of the soundbars’ drivers and what the sub is capable of. It can deliver big, boomy bass, as well as bright highs, but that middle range feels decidedly hollow.
On the positive side, dialogue sounds clear and crisp — the soundbar’s center channel very much favors higher frequencies. If you have trouble making out speech, the SB-600 can help.
But the downside is that you lose some of the sonic nuances, especially in movies with very dynamic soundtracks (think Marvel, DC, and Star Wars flicks).
Second, as Dolby Atmos systems go, you’re not going to be blown away by the height channel effects.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I threw a ton of Dolby Atmos material at the SB-600, from Disney+ titles like Iron Man 2 and Doctor Strange to Dolby Atmos Music tracks from Tidal HiFi streaming music service , plus Dolby Atmos demonstration videos from my LG TV. I found that, in general, the system delivered good surround performance, but that extra dimension offered by Atmos was a bit hit-and-miss.
It ended up being most noticeable — and enjoyable — when listening to Atmos Music. Tracks by The Weeknd and Post Malone had a really expansive soundstage that filled the room.
Movies, on the other hand, lacked that overhead dimension that Atmos is known for.
As Dolby Atmos systems go, you’re not going to be blown away by the SB-600’s height channel effects.
Bluetooth audio was acceptable, but it’s immediately apparent that Monoprice hasn’t made this mode a big priority. Knowing what the system can do when provided with a Dolby Atmos music stream, it’s a bit disappointing that the SB-600 can’t do a better job of upscaling regular stereo into a more immersive mix. All of the speakers are active when listening via Bluetooth, but the sound lacks the expansiveness I was expecting.
Controls and usability Previous Next 1 2 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I really like that when you start a new stream, whether it’s from the TV or another connected device, the LED display tells you what kind of a signal it’s getting. It might say Dolby Atmos , Dolby Surround, or PCM, which is a helpful confirmation of your source material.
But that display can be tricky to read. It only shows a handful of characters at a time, so most messages end up scrolling — you’ll need to pay attention because it will only show you the sound format when switching to a new input.
As I mentioned above, the display’s always-on mode was a bit annoying at times.
Another odd quirk: If you set your preferred levels for bass and treble, these are reset when you switch from one EQ mode to another.
Our take The Monoprice SB-600 is a decent surround soundbar with lots of inputs and a very easy setup thanks to its wireless sub and mostly wireless surround speakers. However, a lackluster Dolby Atmos performance and a hollowness in the midranges keep it from earning our full endorsement.
Is there a better alternative? For a lot less money, the $300 Vizio M-Series 5.1 soundbar may not have the SB-600’s dedicated height drivers or wireless surrounds, but its virtualized Dolby Atmos effects are still noticeable and it provides a much better balance of frequencies.
For a notably better Dolby Atmos experience, the Vizio SB36512-F6 offers excellent Atmos sound for the same price as the SB-600.
How long will it last? Monoprices products aren’t fancy, but they’re well-built, and the SB-600 should last for many years. It comes with a one-year warranty.
Should you buy it? The SB-600’s main advantages are its excellent set of inputs and its semi-wireless surround speakers. But unless these features are super-important to you, I think you’ll be happier with a Vizio model for the same or less money.
Editors' Recommendations The best Dolby Atmos soundbars for 2023 Sennheiser’s Ambeo Soundbar Mini is a pricey, bedroom-sized Dolby Atmos speaker Dolby Atmos FlexConnect could eliminate home theater soundbars and HDMI cables How we test soundbars TCL’s 2023 soundbars are affordable, but lack a key feature Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Audio / Video Samsung has been pretty quiet about its 2023 lineup of Dolby Atmos soundbars since it announced the new collection back at CES 2023, but we finally have all of the models, prices, and features. As we already knew, the latest flagship is the HW-Q990C, a monster 22-driver, 11.1.4-channel system that carries forward the legacy of the HW-Q990B from 2022 -- a soundbar that deeply impressed our reviewer. However, it's now joined by the HW-Q900C -- a more affordable version for folks who don't need the 990C's surround speakers, but who nonetheless may want to add them at a later date.
Also new to the collection are two C-Series models that bring the price of better TV sound down to $200 or less. Here's the full lineup.
Samsung Q-Series Dolby Atmos soundbars In addition to Dolby Atmos compatibility, Samsung's Q-Series soundbars feature Q-Symphony, a feature that lets a compatible Samsung TV enhance the soundbar's own performance through the use of the TV's built-in speakers. Version 3.0 of Q-Symphony also uses the TV’s sound algorithms to analyze each scene to match the TV and soundbar outputs.
Audio / Video Nakamichi's epic Dragon 11.4.6 Dolby Atmos soundbar, which debuted at CES 2023, is about to go up for preorder starting at 9 a.m. PT on April 26. But instead of the usual preorder process, Nakamichi has decided to make the first Dragons off the line limited editions. Officially, it will be called the Nakamichi Dragon 11.4.6 Home Surround Sound System 75th Anniversary World Premiere Edition, and only 500 will be made.
Nakamichi has set the price at $3,499. That includes free shipping, but apparently only to U.S. residents. In a footnote on the preorder site, it says that Nakamichi initially planned to offer international shipping too, but had to reevaluate those plans after it discovered the logistics company it's using (eBay’s Global Shipping Program, for some reason) has a maximum weight and dollar value threshold, which the Dragon exceeds by almost $1,000. I guess some dragons don't fly.
Audio / Video Amazon-owned Audible, one of the largest sources of audiobooks, has announced a new partnership with Dolby Labs that will see Dolby Atmos come to its audiobook collection for the first time. Dolby Atmos is a spatial audio surround sound format that is used for movies and music to create a more immersive, 3D experience that goes beyond traditional stereo sound.
The Dolby Atmos collection includes more than 40 of Audible's most popular Originals, including titles like The Little Mermaid, a new version of the story featuring an underwater soundscape and original music; and the Audible Theater production Marrow, part of the company’s Emerging Playwright Commission program, which is designed to elevate emerging theatrical voices while increasing access to plays and performances.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
