Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Polk MagniFi Mini AX review: Tiny soundbar, giant TV sound By Simon Cohen Close $499.00 Dolby Atmos and DTS:X Powerful subwoofer for its class Wi-Fi/AirPlay 2/Chromecast Clear vocals and dialog Tiny footprint Optional surround speakers Virtualized Atmos not very immersive Midrange detail could be better No HDMI inputs No EQ controls By now, a lot of folks have realized that soundbars are the easiest way to improve your TV’s sound. Sure, they might not be quite as good as a full, conventional home theater system, but for most people, the simplicity they offer more than outweighs any concerns on that front.
Design Connections and controls Setup and configuration Sound quality Our take But most soundbars are almost as wide as the TV to which they’ll be connected. And if you want Dolby Atmos , you might end up spending $1,000 or more.
What is MPEG-H? The burgeoning 3D audio standard explained LG’s 2022 soundbars start at $400, pump out hi-res audio and 3D sound Polk’s first Dolby Atmos soundbar, the Signa S4, is just $399 Polk’s new $499 MagniFi Mini AX is an attempt to solve both concerns by sticking a virtualized Dolby Atmos/DTS:X sound system inside an enclosure that’s smaller than some portable Bluetooth speakers.
 Does it work? And how does it stack up to similarly-priced systems? Let’s check it out.
Design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The MagniFi Mini AX really does live up to its name. The main speaker that sits in front of your TV is crazy small as far as soundbars go. As you can see in the accompanying photos, at just 14.4 inches wide, 4.1 inches deep, and 3.1 inches tall, it’s shallower and shorter than a standard, wired center channel speaker.
I’m not in love with its trapezoidal shape, which keeps reminding me of a Badonkadonk Land Cruiser.
 Other than that, it draws very little attention to itself. A set of clearly labeled buttons sit beneath a rubberized membrane on the top surface: Power, input selection, Bluetooth, mute, and volume up/down. Behind its dark gray acoustic fabric grille is a scrolling OLED display that provides easy-to-read info for your current input, volume/subwoofer/voice levels, and the speaker’s various sound modes.
Top view of the MagniFi Mini AX soundbar (bottom) and an Energy center channel speaker.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If your TV is mounted to the wall, the Mini AX might not be the best choice, as it’s not designed to be wall-mounted — and Polk doesn’t sell any kind of optional mounting hardware. (Though I suppose there’s nothing stopping you from installing a small shelf for it to sit on.) Unlike the vast majority of soundbars, the Mini AX doesn’t have its own internal power supply, which is partially how Polk was able to make it so small. That means there’s a power brick you’ll need to hide.
It’s intended purely as an extension of your TV’s audio system, but with a few extra bells and whistles.
The included wireless subwoofer mirrors the soundbar’s unusual shape with a narrow yet tall, tapering profile. Again, it’s not really my cup of tea looks-wise, but I’m willing to overlook it thanks to its performance.
The remote control is standard fare for Polk: Boring but functional, with a fully rubberized membrane over raised buttons. The layout is simple and intuitive, but there’s no backlighting for use in darkened rooms. I’m guessing that rubber membrane will be way easier to clean when you inevitably spill liquid on it.
Connections and controls Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Some soundbars are designed as A/V receiver replacements with several HDMI inputs — Polk’s MagniFi Max SR is a good example of this. The Mini AX takes a different approach. It’s intended purely as an extension of your TV’s audio system, but with a few extra bells and whistles. In practice, this means you get two choices for connecting your TV: HDMI ARC/eARC or optical.
If you want to listen to Dolby Atmos or DTS:X content, the HDMI port is a must — neither of these sound formats are compatible with optical connections, which simply lack the bandwidth needed to transmit the extra audio information. Your TV also will need an HDMI ARC/eARC port and possess the ability to transmit Dolby Atmos or DTS:X via that port.
Not every Dolby Atmos TV can do this , so double-check your TV’s specs to avoid disappointment. Because the soundbar has no HDMI inputs, if your TV can’t transmit Dolby Atmos, there’s no other way to deliver an Atmos signal to the speaker.
Basic set-up of the MagniFi Mini AX is really easy.
Unfortunately, the unused port (whether that’s HDMI or optical) becomes superfluous. You can’t use it as a secondary input for connecting devices like streaming audio, CD, or Blu-ray players.
There is another input option in the form of a 3.5mm analog jack, which you could use with a variety of devices that have analog outputs, including TVs and smartphones that still have headphone jacks.
Ignore the USB port — it’s reserved for doing software updates in the event that you don’t have a Wi-Fi connection. But I hope that you do have a Wi-Fi connection if you’re thinking of buying the MagniFi Mini AX, because it also supports high-quality music playback over Apple AirPlay 2 and Chromecast , which are both much better alternatives to Bluetooth. If Wi-Fi isn’t an option, or you simply want a quick and easy way to stream from your phones or other devices, Bluetooth is available as well.
Setup and configuration Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Basic setup of the MagniFi Mini AX is really easy. Once you’ve pulled the soundbar and subwoofer out of the box, plug the soundbar into your TV via your preferred connection, then plug both speakers into the nearest wall outlets (plug the soundbar in first). Polk includes an HDMI cable in the box, but you’ll have to supply your own optical cable if that’s the way you want to go. Throw the included batteries into the remote, and you’re in business.
The MagniFi Mini AX is amazing for movies and shows.
Your TV should automatically recognize that it’s connected to a soundbar. If it doesn’t, you’ll need to change the audio settings to use the HDMI/optical output. To ensure you’re getting a Dolby Atmos signal when available, you may need to adjust the audio output settings to use bitstream instead of LPCM.
Once you’re done with the wired portion of the setup, you can also enable Wi-Fi streaming via Apple AirPlay 2 and/or Chromecast Built-in. My review unit had trouble with AirPlay, but using the Google Home app to configure the Mini AX with Chromecast was quick and easy. The Home app invited me to set up the new speaker as soon as I opened it. A few minutes later, the soundbar downloaded and installed the latest firmware, and I was good to go.
Sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The MagniFi Mini AX is amazing for movies and shows. If you read reviews of previous MagniFi speakers , you’ll probably note a common thread: They sound way bigger and better than their diminutive size would normally suggest. The MagniFi Mini AX is no exception.
The soundbar is equipped with two tweeters and three midrange drivers for left, center, and right channels. Thanks to Polk’s Stereo Dimensional Array (SDA) technology, which projects sound outward at various angles — not just straight ahead — this speaker totally fills a medium-sized room with punchy, dynamic sound.
Its strength lies in its reproduction of both low and high frequencies. The subwoofer has a commanding presence, generating bass that you can both hear and feel — and that’s when it’s set to the default neutral level. If you use the remote to boost it, there’s a good chance you’ll start to rattle any loose glass you’ve got in your room.
But at no time does it feel like the sub is taking over. Polk manages to keep it closely tied to the soundbar’s range, always supporting the soundtrack and never smacking you in the face with bass.
The Mini AX has four sound modes: Music, movie, 3D, and night. Since there’s no way to adjust EQ directly, you’ll need to flip around between these modes to see what sounds best to you. With the exception of night mode, which intentionally reduces dynamic range to keep your neighbors from knocking on your door, I found 3D to be the most satisfying for movies and shows, as it takes advantage of the soundbar’s ability to create a wide soundstage. This is not only helpful for making standard 2-channel and 5.1 Dolby Digital content feel more immersive, but it’s also essential as far as I’m concerned for getting the most out of Dolby Atmos and DTS:X.
Regardless of the music source, there was a slight hollowness to the sound.
Having said that, I want to keep your Dolby Atmos expectations realistic. There are no up-firing drivers to create the signature Atmos height channel effect, so Polk uses digital signal processing to virtualize these channels. But even the best-virtualized height and surround channels can only do so much.
With the Mini AX, sounds won’t be heard from overhead (or beside/behind you unless you spring for the $200 optional wireless surround speakers). There’s an awesome moment in No Time To Die , when James Bond’s classic Aston Martin is surrounded by enemies and pummeled by a hail of automatic weapons fire. In an Atmos system with discrete speakers, those bullets sound like they’re whizzing in from all around you, letting you feel what it might be like to be Bond inside the car. The Mini AX faithfully reproduces the sound of those bullets, but on its own, it can’t replicate that feeling of true immersion.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Curiously, Polk’s less expensive $400 Signa S4 soundbar actually does a better job of rendering Dolby Atmos, but with its less powerful subwoofer, it can’t match the Mini AX’s visceral low-end punch.
Though it may not be the best Atmos soundbar, its wide and tall soundstage and excellent clarity make it ideal for Broadway-style musicals. We screened Spielberg’s West Side Story and found the Mini AX was just the ticket for enjoying the cast’s high-energy performances. That clarity makes speech and dialog another bright spot. Again, out of the box, voices are very clear, and you may not feel the need to tweak the settings. But if you find yourself watching an especially poor mix, where the voices tend to get swallowed by the soundtrack or sound effects, the Voice Adjust feature can bring those voices back into sharp focus without diminishing the rest of the audio.
Streaming music is also very enjoyable, but seasoned listeners may notice a lack of midrange detail. I tested a variety of content, including lossless streaming audio over Wi-Fi using Chromecast, lossy streaming via Bluetooth, and Dolby Atmos Music via the Tidal app on the Apple TV 4K.
 Regardless of the source, there was a slight hollowness to the sound. 3D mode creates a more immersive experience, but it also increases that feeling that something’s missing, so Music mode will likely be your best bet. I can’t say for sure that having access to a full set of equalizer controls would make up for this hole in the sound, but I would have liked to try.
As with other soundbars that let you listen to music over HDMI, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth, the best results come from the HDMI connection. Wi-Fi runs a close second, and Bluetooth is perfectly acceptable for casual listening — but I don’t recommend it for a serious listening session.
Our take Simon Cohen / Digital Trends With its tiny footprint but huge sound, the Polk MagniFi Mini AX is an excellent choice for taking your TV’s sound to the next level while keeping dialog clear and intelligible, but its lack of EQ settings and midrange weakness keep it from being an ideal music machine.
Is there a better alternative? If immersive Dolby Atmos is your primary goal, consider the $500 Vizio M-Series M512a-H6. It lacks the Mini AX’s space-saving design, but it will produce much more immersive audio thanks to its dedicated up-firing drivers and surround speakers. We haven’t tested this exact model, but we’ve reviewed many of Vizio’s other Atmos models like the flagship Elevate and the affordable M-Series M51a-H6, and they’re generally excellent performers. Vizio’s soundbars don’t have Wi-Fi for AirPlay or Chromecast streaming, however, so they should be considered primarily TV enhancers.
If you want a small footprint soundbar that can virtualize Dolby Atmos and deliver a musical performance that is sure to satisfy, the $449 Sonos Beam Gen 2 is an excellent alternative. It can’t compete with the Mini AX’s rumbling subwoofer, but it has an expansive soundstage, and like all Sonos products, it’s a superb music companion that works with every streaming service you can think of. Plus, it’s a smart speaker with your choice of Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant.
How long will it last? As long as Polk continues to provide software updates when needed, the MagniFi Mini AX should last for many years to come. My experience with external power supply bricks like the one that Polk uses for the soundbar is that they can sometimes fail prematurely, but at least that’s easier to replace than if an internal power supply should go on the fritz. Polk backs the MagniFi Mini AX with a one-year warranty on the amplifiers and a three-year warranty on the speakers.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you’re looking to give your movies and shows a major upgrade while keeping the soundbar as small as possible, the MagniFi Mini AX fits the bill.
Editors' Recommendations DTS Play-Fi wireless audio adds support for Dolby Atmos, DTS:X Polk’s latest Dolby Atmos soundbars make for compelling Sonos Arc alternatives Polk brings Dolby Atmos to its compact MagniFi soundbar Vizio 2021 soundbars go big on Dolby Atmos and HDMI eARC support Polk’s $249 expandable React Soundbar packs virtual 5.1 surround sound and Alexa Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Audio / Video Polk Audio’s latest soundbar is on its way, and it’s packed with some intriguing technology.
The audio company has announced the $499 MagniFi 2 soundbar which is set to launch in August. The soundbar features a six-driver array, includes an 8-inch wireless subwoofer, and will be outfitted with Polk Audio’s patented Stereo Dimensional Array (SDA) technology. This technology, according to Polk, is meant to deliver a larger soundstage for the soundbar. It will be paired with several other tech features, including a 3D Audio mode and a DSP setting that’s designed to enhance the front, surround, and low frequencies in 5.1 audio tracks. Polk says these technologies will give the MagniFi 2 a wider soundstage and more impactful low end than listeners might expect.
Audio / Video We've been eagerly awaiting the formal launch of Samsung's 2020 soundbar lineup since the company debuted the new speakers at CES 2020, and today we now know how much it will cost to add one to our home theater setups. It's a big selection and there's a soundbar for every room and every budget, from a simple 2-channel volume booster to a fully immersive 5.1.2 Dolby Atmos sofa-shaker.
We don't yet have the full specs for each model, but they're all available today -- or within the coming days -- at major retailers and online.
Audio / Video Vizio has always enjoyed a reputation for producing soundbars that are fantastic values, delivering far better sound than their affordable prices would suggest. And while that's still true, at CES 2020, Vizio is upping its soundbar game considerably.
<strong>Top Tech of CES 2020: Audio</strong> Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
