Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Polk React soundbar review: Affordable, expandable, and smart too By Simon Cohen Close $250.00 Slim, low-profile design Easy setup Very good sound quality Affordable wireless accessories Alexa built-in No HDMI inputs Remote is missing playback controls Requires Alexa for Wi-Fi streaming No Chromecast or AirPlay By far the biggest benefit of buying a soundbar is simplicity. One speaker, two cables, and bam! Way better sound than your TV can do on its own. But as soundbars add on features like subwoofers , surround speakers, or voice capabilities, their price and complexity tend to go up as well.
What’s in the box? Design Connections Setup and configuration Sound quality Controls and usability Our take Polk’s $250 React soundbar is designed to remedy this somewhat. On its own, it’s an Alexa-powered smart speaker that can deliver decent virtual surround sound. But you can also boost the system to a full 5.1 setup by adding Polk’s $200 wireless subwoofer and $200 surround speakers.
Polk’s $249 expandable React Soundbar packs virtual 5.1 surround sound and Alexa Roku’s Wireless speakers will link up with its smart soundbar for true surround First ‘Tuned by THX’ home theater speakers need no A/V receivers — or wires Does that $650 investment rival or beat the competition? Let’s check it out.
What’s in the box? Polk packages up the React soundbar with everything you need to get going, including an HDMI cable, an optical cable, a remote control with batteries, a wall-mounting template, and wall mount hardware. There’s a fair amount of styrofoam to throw away (or recycle if suitable facilities exist near you) and a number of polybags too.
It calls very little attention to itself, which is exactly what you want in a soundbar.
Design At just 34-inches wide, the Polk React should be easy to place in front of almost any TV and its 2.2-inch height means it’s short enough to avoid blocking the bottom of the screen (and any infrared receivers that might be located there).
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The (almost) completely dark grey fabric-wrapped exterior is perfectly neutral and calls very little attention to itself, which in my opinion is exactly what you want in a soundbar. I think it’s far more attractive than Polk’s first effort at a smart soundbar — the $299 Polk Command Bar.
On the top surface, it looks like someone punched an Echo Dot -sized hole into the speaker and then dropped an Echo Dot into it. This is not that far from the truth — that circular set of buttons and microphones are indeed the telltale signs that the React is also an Alexa smart speaker.
Unlike the Sonos Beam or Arc , or Bose Soundbar 300 , using Alexa is central to the React’s setup, but we’ll discuss that further below.
Hidden behind the React’s fabric exterior are two midrange drivers, two tweeters, and two passive bass radiators. Also hidden (until they light up) are two LED indicators: A long, segmented horizontal bar that does double-duty as a level indicator for settings like volume and bass, as well as Alexa’s colorful, animated responses cues, and a small LED dot that lights up different colors depending on the source signal (blue for Bluetooth, green for Dolby Audio, etc.).
The React wireless subwoofer, like so many other subs, is a basic black box, but thanks to its rectangular shape, you may find it easier to hide behind or beside a couch than some of the more cube-like designs we’ve seen.
But I’m very taken with the optional Polk SR2 wireless rear speakers. They have a fabric grille that matches the React soundbar, and a trapezoidal shape that gives them a lot of flexibility in terms of placement. Their rubber feet let them sit comfortably on any surface while their standard speaker-mount threaded holes let you use a variety of third-party mounts and stands. Or, you can simply use the included mounting hardware. Surround speakers are rarely notable for their design, which makes the SR2 a refreshing change.
Connections Rich Shibley/Digital Trends The React is fairly barebones from a connections point of view. You get a single HDMI ARC port for audio-only, an optical port in case your TV doesn’t support HDMI ARC, and a USB port. There’s no analog input, so don’t count on being able to connect an external wired sound source like a portable media player.
The procedure of getting the React set up using the Alexa app couldn’t be easier.
There’s also no way to use the optical and HDMI ARC as separate inputs. They’re mutually exclusive. Connecting one of them locks out the other.
Setup and configuration Yes, it’s possible to use the Polk React soundbar on its own, without setting it up for use with Amazon Alexa, but if that’s your intent, I recommend finding a different soundbar. Wi-Fi access, multiroom audio, and smart speaker functions all require the Alexa app.
The good news is that the procedure of getting the React set up using the Alexa app couldn’t be easier.
Simply place the soundbar and connect it to your TV. If your TV has HDMI ARC , and you don’t mind sacrificing an HDMI port on your TV, use that connection — it will let the soundbar control TV volume/mute functions and vice versa. Otherwise, an optical connection is fine and won’t impact sound quality at all.
Plug in the power cable and open the Amazon Alexa app. Within a few seconds, the app will automatically recognize that the React is available to be set up and will prompt you to do so.
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends Pro Tip: If you’ve never downloaded or used the Alexa app before, take a few minutes to download it and create a new account or use your existing Amazon account. Doing this before turning on the React for the first time will make the process much smoother.
The Alexa app will walk you through a few steps like picking the React’s location in your home and choosing a default music service.
If you opt for the wireless subwoofer or SR2 surrounds, the process of adding them should be equally painless. All I had to do was connect them to power and the React automatically recognized them and created a wireless connection. A voice prompt even notified me that the SR2 speakers needed to be updated before they could work, and the React bar automatically performed that update and restarted itself. I’ve never experienced such a hands-off setup.
If you’ve been using your TV’s built-in speakers, the React will feel like a serious upgrade.
I say this “should” be painless because, for me, it was. However, our senior editor Caleb Denison also set up a React soundbar and found that adding the surrounds didn’t go quite as smoothly (see our video review above).
Sound quality On its own, the React soundbar sounds really good considering its size and price. Unlike a lot of budget-friendly speakers, it maintains an excellent balance of frequencies. Higher registers like speech are clear and precise, the mid-tones are well-rendered, and the bass is far stronger than I was expecting given that the soundbar relies on passive bass radiators — not powered drivers — for its low end.
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends If you’ve been using your TV’s built-in speakers, the React will feel like a serious upgrade. Polk promises “big, detailed, virtual surround sound,” and I’d say the React largely delivers on this — at least in the “big” and “detailed” categories.
As far as simulating a true surround sound setup, it’s not quite as successful as, say, the Bose Soundbar 300. The React certainly provides a nice, wide soundstage that easily fills even moderately sized rooms with sound, but it doesn’t quite achieve the wraparound effect that the best virtual surround systems can do. This might be because the React bar is actually a two-channel speaker with discrete left and right drivers. When you’ve got to virtualize a center channel, it doesn’t leave a lot of room for virtualizing two surround channels as well.
Polk offers four EQ presets: Music, Movie, Sport, and Night. Music and Movie sounded very similar to me. Night tones down most of the lower frequencies, making it less likely that you’ll disturb other folks in your house who are trying to sleep, and Sport should really be called “speech” as it enhances higher frequencies for better dialog clarity.
The one missing component is playback control on the remote when streaming music.
The soundbar is also a really smooth performer when it comes to music, but this is where the Wi-Fi connection — enabled by the Alexa app — comes into play. The React has Bluetooth so you can stream music from any smartphone, tablet, or computer, but you’ll get way better quality if you stream using the services available within the Alexa app, or via Spotify Connect.
My only complaint is that the Alexa app lacks native support some services.
Tidal and YouTube Music are notably absent, though there is a Tidal skill for Alexa that can be used to overcome this limitation. And since the React doesn’t have AirPlay or Chromecast, you’ll have to use Bluetooth if your favorite service isn’t listed.
Adding the wireless subwoofer does exactly what you would expect. Low-end bass goes from something you hear to something you feel too, a critical component for fans of action movies.
Adding in the wireless SR2 surround speakers finally provides the missing depth, though as Denison points out in his video review, you need to crank the level on these speakers to get the most out of them.
Speaking of getting the most out of the surrounds, one thing you won’t find anywhere in the instructions is that you can adjust how these speakers behave when playing music. When you begin a music stream, the system defaults to playing through the React bar on its own, with the help of the subwoofer if you have one.
If you want to hear the music from the surrounds too, you need to press the Music button on the remote. One press will switch to an “all stereo mode” which reproduces the front left/right channels in the rear speakers. Curiously, if you then press the Movie button, it will shift the balance toward the front of the room, but keep some of the program coming from the surrounds.
It’s not clear to me why Polk has hidden this feature or why it uses EQ mode buttons to control it, but it’s there and it works well. The all stereo mode packs a helluva punch when listening to music — perfect for parties.
Controls and usability The React’s remote control isn’t fancy, but that’s a good thing. It’s comfortable to use, it has dedicated buttons for all of the most important settings, and even though it’s not backlit, the white labels on the black, rubberized surface are easy to read even in a fairly dark room. If you don’t want to say “Alexa” before issuing a voice command, you can press the dedicated Alexa button instead.
I especially like that if you add the SR2 wireless speakers, the remote gives you volume and balance controls just for those channels.
The one missing component is playback control when streaming music, which is a strange omission. Given the React’s generous music options (including MP3 storage on a USB device) you’d think there would be at least a play/pause button. Polk tells us that Alexa can be used for this as an alternative.
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends The remote also seemed to have difficulty relaying its infrared commands to the soundbar. I had to keep adjusting the angle of the remote as I pointed it at the bar — sometimes the button pressed registered right away, other times not at all.
In the instructions, Polk does warn that if a light source is pointed directly at the soundbar’s IR sensor, that could cause interference, but I’m fairly certain this wasn’t the case.
Bringing Alexa into the equation takes control to the next level. Not only can you use the React for the myriad tasks we can assign to smart speakers like telling us the weather forecast or setting reminders, but it also lets you summon any music or podcast from the available services.
Using Alexa or the Alexa app to control music playback is easy, but limited. You can access songs, albums, and playlists, but there’s no way to add new favorites or create playlists — all of this must be done in the relevant service’s app. It certainly can’t compare to what Sonos offers, but then again, the Sonos Beam costs considerably more.
I wish you could use Alexa for TV-based commands like being able to turn the TV on and off, or changing inputs (something you can do on the Bose Smart Soundbar 300), but that’s not included on the React at the moment.
Our take Though it doesn’t offer the same versatility as other smart soundbars like the Sonos Beam or Bose Smart Soundbar 300, the Polk React is a great value for both movies and music, and can be easily — and affordably — expanded into a true 5.1 surround sound home theater system.
Is there a better alternative? If you want a midrange soundbar that doubles as a smart speaker, there simply isn’t anything else on the market that comes close to the Polk React for the price.
If you’re willing to spend $150 more, both the Sonos Beam and Bose Smart Soundbar 300 give you a choice of voice assistant, better music streaming options, and better multiroom audio. But it costs significantly more to expand them into full surround sound systems.
If you just want a simple soundbar without any bells and whistles, the Vizio V21 is hard to beat at just $180, which includes a wireless subwoofer.
How long will it last? Polk Audio has a reputation for making solidly-built speakers and the React appears to follow this trend. It comes with a one-year warranty on the amplifier and a three-warranty on the speakers. I expect it will last for many years to come.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Polk React is simple to use and sounds great for both movies and music. The ability to affordably expand it and use it as a smart speaker are handy extras.
Update, April 24: This review initially indicated that the surround speakers did not work with streaming music, however a Polk representative subsequently provided the missing instructions for getting the speakers to output music.
Editors' Recommendations TCL’s 2023 soundbars are affordable, but lack a key feature Samsung’s 2020 soundbar lineup adds Dolby Atmos to your TV starting at $700 Enclave Audio’s CineHome Pro is the first THX-certified wireless speaker system Roku Smart Soundbar and Wireless Subwoofer reinvent the home-theater-in-a-box Klipsch Bar 40 and Bar 48 home theater soundbars bring the boom to any TV Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
