Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Polk Signa S4 Soundbar review: Simply better TV sound By Simon Cohen Close $399.00 Compact design Ultra-simple setup Very clear dialogue Excellent Dolby Atmos sound Great for TV-based music No EQ adjustments No Wi-Fi/AirPlay/Chromecast No HDMI outputs Polk’s latest soundbar, the $399 Signa S4 , features dedicated up-firing drivers to help it deliver an immersive Dolby Atmos experience — it’s one of the only soundbars at this price to do so. But Polk’s big achievements with the Signa S4 are its simplicity of setup and its ability to reproduce crystal clear voice and dialogue — something that often gets overlooked. We just wish that Polk had included a few more adjustments for other aspects of the S4’s sound.
Design Connections Setup and configuration No expansion Usability How’s that sound? What’s in the box? Our take Here’s the full rundown on this affordable home theater upgrade.
Polk’s first Dolby Atmos soundbar, the Signa S4, is just $399 This free tool takes the guesswork out of planning a home theater Samsung’s 2020 soundbar lineup adds Dolby Atmos to your TV starting at $700 Design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Polk has gone for a minimalist design, which I think is the best approach when it comes to soundbars. Wrapped almost entirely in black acoustic fabric, the Signa S4 draws very little attention to itself. It only stands 2.4 inches tall, and at just over 41 inches long and 3.7 inches deep, it will easily find a home in front of any TV with a 42-inch screen size or larger.
You’ll be able to place the subwoofer almost anywhere, except under a sofa.
It’s also quite lightweight, so you should have no problem mounting it to a wall using the provided spacers. Top-mounted buttons give you easy access to the most commonly used controls, and Polk includes a compact, dedicated remote for everything else. It isn’t backlit, but the button sizes and placements make it easy to use even in a darkened room.
The included wireless subwoofer is incredibly compact, as you can see in these photos. Its six-inch down-firing driver is enclosed in a simple black box that stands under a foot in height and is only 8 inches wide, so you’ll be able to place it almost anywhere, except under a sofa.
Connections Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Around the back of the soundbar, you’ll find a very spartan set of ports: One HDMI ARC/eARC input, one optical input, and one 3.5mm analog input. There’s also a USB A port, but don’t get too excited about that — it’s strictly for firmware updates, not for music playback from a storage device (boo!). If it’s music you want, your options are somewhat limited. If you have access to a streaming service on your TV or your streaming media device, you’re good to go via HDMI or optical. But if you want to use your phone, you’ll be relying on the speaker’s Bluetooth connection — there are no Wi-Fi technologies like Apple AirPlay 2 or Chromecast Built-in.
With no HDMI output, you’ll be giving up your ARC/eARC HDMI port on your TV, unless you use the optical connection — but don’t do that unless your TV doesn’t do Dolby Atmos, because optical connections aren’t compatible with this surround sound format.
Setting up the Signa S4 couldn’t be simpler.
Polk will tell you that you need an HDMI eARC connection to get Dolby Atmos sound, but that’s not perfectly accurate. Even if your TV only has HDMI ARC, you can still get Dolby Atmos as long as your TV can output Dolby Atmos as Dolby Digital Plus. Not every TV can do this, however, so be sure to check your television’s specs to avoid disappointment.
Confused? Here’s an in-depth guide on how to know if you’re actually getting Dolby Atmos sound.
Unfortunately, Polk has tied the optical and HDMI ports together as a single source, meaning that once you pick one of them for your TV connection, you can’t use the other one for another device like a CD player or a dedicated audio output from a Blu-ray player.
 The 3.5mm analog input is the only physical auxiliary audio connection.
Setup and configuration Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The one upside to having such a limited set of connections is that setting up the Signa S4 couldn’t be simpler. Plug the soundbar into your TV via HDMI or optical, plug the soundbar into a wall outlet, then do the same with the subwoofer. Bam! You’re in business.
If you’ve never connected a soundbar or A/V receiver before, you may need to tell your TV to use its HDMI or optical output for sound, but most TVs recognize when an external speaker is connected and take care of making this switch automatically. There’s no mobile app to use, no on-screen menus to follow, and somewhat surprisingly for a $399 Dolby Atmos soundbar , there’s no room calibration process to walk through. Like I said, it really couldn’t be simpler.
No expansion Keep in mind that if you think you might want to upgrade to a system with a more powerful sub, or dedicated rear-channel speakers, the Signa S4 can’t help you with that. If you want that kind of flexibility, look to brands like Sony, Bose, Sonos, LG, or Samsung.
Usability Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Without an on-screen display for your TV, or a text display on the front of the speaker, Polk leaves you to interpret a series of LEDs nestled behind the grille. My review unit arrived without a full user guide, but it wasn’t that hard to figure it out.
I auditioned the S4 with all of my go-to Dolby Atmos movies; they all sounded stellar.
Changes in volume are reflected by an increasing number of white LED dots, while changes to voice mode are denoted with a quick pulse of an orange LED. Dolby Atmos is indicated with a light blue dot, and green is for standard digital audio. A darker blue LED tells you when you’re using Bluetooth.
How’s that sound? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Despite my reservations about the Signa S4’s connections, this soundbar sounds great. Thanks to the included subwoofer and the dedicated up-firing drivers, it creates a genuinely wide and deep soundstage that includes some very convincing surround effects when watching movies with Dolby Atmos soundtracks.
You can’t adjust the level of the height drivers — an unfortunate omission — but Polk has clearly done its homework; I found the overhead effects are nearly as good as you’ll get on Sony’s considerably more expensive HT-A5000.
If you’ve ever struggled to make out what an actor was saying, the S4 will make that task a lot easier.
That tiny sub isn’t powerful enough to shake your furniture or rattle your windows, but you will hear and feel it — it provides a very nicely balanced low-end kick. That’s really all you need to take your TV watching experience into true home theater territory, and it helps set the S4 apart from the Sonos Beam Gen 2 and JBL Bar 5.0, both of which are Dolby Atmos compatible, but don’t come with subwoofers and are priced within $50 of the Polk.
I auditioned the S4 with all of my go-to Atmos movies: Mad Max:Fury Road, Marvel Avengers:Infinity War, Ford v. Ferrari, and (most recently) Dune.
 They all sounded stellar.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends And it’s not just Dolby Atmos content that benefits from the S4’s 3.1.2-channel sound system. The on-board digital signal processing does a great job of upscaling two-channel and 5.1 into a virtual 3D presentation. In fact, when I first got it connected, I began playing what I thought was Atmos content from an Apple TV 4K , without noticing that the small, color-coded LED on the front of the soundbar was green for pulse-code modulation (PCM), and not the light blue that indicates a true Atmos signal. It absolutely could have passed for true Atmos from a lesser soundbar.
Even more impressive is the clarity of dialogue. Polk provides three levels of speech enhancement (which it calls Voice Adjust), and if you’ve ever struggled to make out what an actor was saying (unfamiliar accents notwithstanding), these settings are guaranteed to make that task a lot easier. There’s a small price to be paid on the second and third level of enhancement — the high frequencies start to introduce a bit of distortion — but it’s not a deal breaker.
Music, when piped through the HDMI or optical port from the TV, is a treat. Much like with movie content, the Signa S4 does an excellent job of resolving Dolby Atmos Music content, and takes advantage of the soundbar’s full complement of drivers to create an immersive, larger-than-stereo feel, even for regular two-channel stereo. Switching between music and movie modes mostly impacts that sense of depth, with movie mode predictably widening the sound, while music mode keeps things tighter, with a more forward direction. But beware, audio purists: There doesn’t appear to be a way to force the S4 to deliver a pure two-channel-only sound.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends And, just as predictably, Bluetooth streaming robs tracks of much of their detail and range. If you fire up Amazon Music on an iPhone via Bluetooth, then find the same track on the Amazon Music app for the Shield TV , and swap back and forth — which is exactly what I did — you will swear the Bluetooth version sounds like it’s coming from a different (and worse) speaker.
This is truly upsetting, because it means the only way to hear the Signa S4’s full music potential is to keep your TV on and use a compatible streaming service. This is where Wi-Fi support with either AirPlay 2 or Chromecast built-in would have helped a ton. Don’t get me wrong, Bluetooth streaming isn’t awful — but it’s not very good either.
I noted in the introduction that I miss the lack of deeper settings, like EQ, channel levels, virtual surround effects, loudness, etc. To be fair to Polk, a lot of soundbars at this price, like JBL’s Bar 5.0, also lack these adjustments. But that just means this was an opportunity for Polk to differentiate itself.
What’s in the box? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Polk includes the Signa S4 soundbar, a wireless subwoofer, two power cables, an HDMI cable, an optical cable, a remote control, two AAA batteries, a set of wall-mount spacers, a wall-mount template, and a quick-start guide. Polk’s packaging uses a fair amount of styrofoam, which might prove tricky to recycle, depending on where you live.
Our take What the Polk Signa S4 lacks in features, it makes up for with brilliant, immersive sound in a very compact and simple package. For folks who want to turn their TVs into movie theaters with the least amount of fuss and headache, it’s $400 very well spent.
Is there a better alternative? From a pure home theater point of view, you’ll be hard-pressed to find a better, bigger audio bang for your buck than the Polk Signa S4. But that doesn’t mean there aren’t better options if you expect your soundbar to do more than act as a TV speaker upgrade.
The Sonos Beam Gen 2 might not come with a subwoofer, but it works with Dolby Atmos and sounds great — especially in small-to-medium-sized rooms. And thanks to the Sonos ecosystem, it’s even better for music and as part of a whole-home sound solution. It’s fully expandable via other Sonos speakers to a 5.1.2 system, works with AirPlay 2, and you even get a choice of Alexa or Google Assistant for hands-free control over your music and your smart home. It’s a good choice if you have already started a Sonos system or plan to do so.
On the other side of the equation, the Yamaha YAS-209 might not offer Dolby Atmos, but it comes with a subwoofer, it has two HDMI ports, it includes Amazon Alexa, and it works with both AirPlay 2 and Chromecast built-in over Wi-Fi. It’s a great hybrid of music and movie capabilities.
How long will it last? As a simple soundbar plus wireless subwoofer, it’s hard to see why the Signa S4 wouldn’t last as long as you desire. But powered, amplified products can and do fail from time to time, so your mileage may vary. Polk backs the amplifiers with a one-year warranty, while the speakers themselves come with a three-year warranty.
Should you buy it? Yes. It may not be a sonic Swiss army knife, but it will turn your TV room into a super-fun and immersive home theater within just a few minutes of getting it out of the box.
Editors' Recommendations Polk’s latest Dolby Atmos soundbars make for compelling Sonos Arc alternatives Polk’s $249 expandable React Soundbar packs virtual 5.1 surround sound and Alexa Polk Audio’s new MagniFi 2 soundbar features immersive sound tech Polk Audio’s Signa S3 soundbar bundles Chromecast on a budget Vizio is still rocking the Black Friday spirit with these TV and soundbar deals Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Speakers Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
