Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Audio / Video Razer Leviathan V2 review: A PC gaming soundbar done right? By Luke Larsen Close $250.00 Easy setup Sounds great in games Sub provides solid bass Clean, attractive look Adjustable height and tilt Minimal ports No headphone jack Music still doesn’t sound great In living rooms, soundbars have become commonplace. But connected to your PC on your desk? That’s still a bit of a novelty, especially with the proliferation of excellent wireless headsets out there.
Design Ports and controls Audio quality Our take But after seven years of silence, Razer has finally announced a sequel to its Leviathan PC soundbar: The Leviathan V2. As one of the few options out there, the Leviathan V2 offers a streamlined design, two additional passive radiators, customizable RGB lighting, and the inclusion of THX Spatial Audio.
Is that enough to bring PC soundbars into the mainstream? Probably not. But at $250, it’s not a bad way to equip your PC gaming setup with some better audio.
Design Image used with permission by copyright holder The Razer Leviathan V2 is a 2.1 audio solution, meaning you’ve got a pair of speakers squished into one with a stand-alone subwoofer to put below your desk. It’s all meant to sit below your monitor, and as long as your monitor has height adjustment, that shouldn’t be too hard.
It’s an attractive little soundbar, too. The drivers are enclosed behind an aluminum speaker grille, which is housed in a matte black finish with a Razer logo in the center. Compared to the original, Razer has straightened some lines and reduced the accents, making for a cleaner and more modern look.
You don’t need to be all-in on Razer gear to appreciate this speaker’s styling.
That’s especially true compared to a speaker like the LG Ultragear GP9 , which really emphasizes its gaming pedigree with its design. You don’t need to be all-in on Razer gear to appreciate this speaker’s styling.
Along the bottom of the soundbar’s edge, you’ll find a strip of LED lights, which add a splash of RGB goodness to your desk, in case you didn’t already have enough. It’s fairly restrained, though, offering just a glow around the base of the speaker, with 16 zones of customizable color, all of which can be customized in Razer Synapse. It’s a nice touch. Strange to think that the original Leviathan didn’t include lighting like this of some kind.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The soundbar maintains a fairly small profile, too, at just 19.7 inches wide. Depending on the size and shape of your monitor’s base, though, it may be tricky to find a perfectly flat spot for it to sit. I didn’t have that trouble plopping it under the ultrawide Alienware 34 QD-OLED.
 In fact, an extra-large or ultrawide monitor is a great example of why a soundbar might make more sense than a pair of computer speakers.
Behind the speaker grille, you’ll find the same speaker setup as before: Two full-range drivers and two tweeters. The drivers themselves are bigger this time around — 33% bigger full-range cones and tweeters that are one millimeter larger, too.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Leviathan V2 also benefits from adding a pair of rubber passive radiators in the back, each measuring 135 mm wide.
Lastly, you’ll find two replaceable feet along the bottom, which prop the Leviathan V2 up off the desktop surface. The default ones are flat, but the angled feet are significantly better, because they point the audio up at your face instead of at your shoulders.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The stand-alone subwoofer has gotten a similar redesign to the soundbar itself. It’s still a decent-sized down-firing speaker but has grown to five and a half inches. The finish is now a textured matte black, matching the soundbar. It’s attractive — as much as a black cube can be.
The rubber feet on the bottom are sturdy too. If your office is without carpet, this thing won’t slip around or easily tip over.
Ports and controls Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the advantages soundbars have over traditional speakers has always been ease of setup. Even a simple 2.1 system involves more wires hanging across your desk. Setting up the Razer Leviathan V2 is a breeze, much like other PC soundbars.
The soundbar has just three ports on the back. One cable runs down to the subwoofer, the other is for power, and the USB-C port is for connection to your PC. That’s it. The subwoofer doesn’t need its own power, and Razer includes all the cables in the box, including the USB-C to USB-A cord.
The lack of a headphone jack is a shame.
Unfortunately, that also means there are some significant limitations to what you can do with the Leviathan V2. The previous model included an optical port, as well as a 3.5mm headphone jack. Other competitors, such as the Creative Sound Blaster Katana V2, also include HDMI ARC , which makes it possible to connect to other systems.
The lack of a headphone jack, in particular, is a shame. While connecting over Bluetooth 5.2 is fast, it’s a missed opportunity to provide an excellent DAC (digital audio converter) to improve the experience for headphone wearers.
The Leviathan V2 takes a similar approach to controls, including just five buttons across the front: Power, Bluetooth pairing, volume up, volume down, and input switching. All of that does exactly what you’d expect. The input switcher is particularly handy if you need to quickly throw audio between your wireless headset and the soundbar.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I would have also loved to see some more EQ controls on the soundbar itself, though. The Razer Nommo speakers included a handy bass knob that would have been a good addition to the Leviathan V2. Other options like the Panasonic SoundSlayer Speaker and Katana V2 even include a remote, which the Leviathan lacks.
Razer sidesteps the need for a remote by offering a mobile app, available on both iOS and Android.
 The app allows you to The minimalist approach taken by the Leviathan V2 emphasizes the simplicity of the design. But it’s hard not to be jealous of the Katana V2, which includes a forward-facing headphone jack, built-in microphone, digital read-out, HDMI ARC, optional wall mount brackets, six customizable buttons, and remote control. If you want superior customization and control of your audio, the Razer Leviathan V2 is not for you.
Audio quality Of course, nothing matters more in a soundbar than actual audio quality. There’s a lot of good to report in this regard. In-game, I found myself pleasantly surprised by how good this soundbar is at recreating the surround sound experience.
I toggled on “3D Sound” in Fortnite and found myself absorbed by sounds that seemed to come from all around me: Gunfire from enemy to my right, the shimmering sound of a chest hiding nearby, and a shark splashing in the water up ahead. None of that will feel new if you’re used to playing games with a decent gaming headset , but it feels much more natural and immersive using the Leviathan V2.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The increased frequency range when connected over USB, now supporting 45Hz up to 20kHz, ensures you’re not missing anything in the mix. Meanwhile, the stand-alone subwoofer provides the punchy bass that systems like the LG GP9 just can’t. There’s plenty of volume here, too – more than enough to fill a big room, and then some.
With music, though, the results are less impressive. The mix feels messy, probably because both sets of speakers are pushed right up against one another. The stereo image just isn’t as clear and separated as I wanted it to be, especially when you compare it to a set of standard 2.1 speakers like the Logitech G560.
 It’s amazing what just a few inches of space on either side can do to widen the soundstage.
In almost all cases, I preferred to have THX Spatial Audio turned on.
THX Spatial Audio , which the soundbar proudly promotes, is Razer’s solution to this problem. The feature uses beamforming to trick your ears into thinking you’re hearing more channels than you really are. Some of this is subjective, but I found that it helped in a lot of the songs I tested it on. The wall of sound in George Harrison’s “My Sweet Lord” sounds intricate and pronounced, while the delicate bass grooves and percussion of Thundercat’s “Uh Uh” really come to life.
In almost all cases, I preferred to have THX Spatial Audio turned on. Just the same, though, I just think a decent pair of 2.1 computer speakers will have provided a better music listening experience.
But if you want a pair of excellent gaming speakers , you won’t be disappointed by Leviathan V2. It’s just not a product for audiophiles. That’s especially true when you dig into some of Razer’s EQ presets available in the Synapse app. They were all far too strong for my tastes. The Music setting, for example, removed too move of the bass and lower-mids, while the Game setting left in-game music sounding pitiful.
Fortunately, you can set up a custom setting available to set up a more nuanced EQ that suits your preferences. Either way, there’s no way to switch between presets without pulling up the Synapse app, so you’re probably best off leaving it on the flat “THX” preset.
Our take If you’re skeptical about the idea of putting a soundbar under your monitor, let me put your concerns to rest: It works. It totally does, and the Razer Leviathan V2 is one of the better options out there, especially for this price. I wish it had more ports, controls, and customization, but the beautiful design, solid audio quality, and clutter-free setup more than make up for its bare-bones approach.
Are there any alternatives? The Creative SoundBlaster Katana and Katana V2 are this soundbar’s closest rivals. The original Katana sells at the same price as the Leviathan V2, while the Katana V2 costs $80 more.
If you want to opt for a more traditional set of PC gaming speakers, Logitech’s G560 provides excellent audio (and lighting) — and currently sells for less than the Leviathan V2.
How long will it last? Unlike a lot of tech, you can expect an audio product to last you longer than even five years. Using the latest Bluetooth 5.2 connectivity helps in that regard, as does the Leviathan V2’s excellent build quality.
Should you buy it? Yes, if a plug-and-play audio system delivers decent sound right out of the box. If you can afford to pay an extra $80, you’ll likely enjoy the extra customization and ports that the Creative Katana V2 provides, but for a cheaper and simpler plug-and-play experience, the Leviathan V2 is a solid option.
Editors' Recommendations Creative’s Katana V2X PC soundbar promises the same sound in a smaller footprint Computing PC Gaming Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Speakers Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
