The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Reviews Looking to buy your next phone, laptop, headphones, or other tech gear? Or maybe you just want to know all of the details about the latest products from Apple, Samsung, Google, and many others. The Verge Reviews is the place for all of that and more. Whether you’re looking for buying advice, how to use products you already own, or the best deals on products we’ve tested and used ourselves and can recommend, you needn’t look any further.
Buying Guides / Gift Guide / Laptops / Phones / Headphones / Tablets / Smart Home / Smartwatches / Speakers / Drones / Gaming / Accessories / TV Boxes / Cars Featured stories 7 Verge Score This is the keyboard that will convert you to the low-profile life The Lofree Flow is a low-profile keyboard that types and sounds like a full-height one.
| Comments Deals The Verge’s 2023 holiday gift guide for moms Sheena Vasani Nov 17 The best early Black Friday deals on Amazon devices Sheena Vasani Nov 17 Samsung’s Galaxy Buds 2 Pro are at a new low price of $154 Antonio G. Di Benedetto Nov 16 Here are the best Kindle deals right now Sheena Vasani and Brandon Widder Nov 15 7 Verge Score Fitbit Charge 6 review: practically a Pixel band Google’s fingerprints are all over this casual fitness tracker.
| Comments Gaming brands are learning the right lessons from enthusiast mechanical keyboards The new Razer BlackWidow V4 75% and Asus ROG Azoth play to traditional gaming strengths, while feeling and sounding significantly nicer to type on.
| Comments How to The best note-taking apps for collecting your thoughts and data Barbara Krasnoff Nov 16 The best Fitbits for your fitness and health Victoria Song Nov 16 How to share large files over the web David Nield Nov 14 Mint is going away, but these easy budgeting apps can take its place Barbara Krasnoff Nov 10 Buying Guide Buying Guide The best smart holiday string lights | Comments The best instant cameras you can buy right now We found the best cameras for your budget and needs.
| Comments PlayStation PlayStation Sony’s Pulse Explore earbuds deliver immersive audio and one very useful trick | Comments Advertisement Advertisement Advertiser Content 8 Verge Score Apple MacBook Pro 16 M3 Max review It’s undoubtedly fast, powerful, and earns the Pro moniker. It’ll also cost you a pretty penny.
| Comments Mint is going away, but these easy budgeting apps can take its place Mint will disappear at the end of the year, but there are other apps that can help you watch your budget.
| Comments PlayStation PlayStation Sony’s new ‘slim’ PlayStation 5 is smaller but also weirder | Comments Samsung Samsung Samsung Galaxy Buds FE review: sometimes the fit is everything | Comments PC Gaming PC Gaming Steam Deck OLED review: better, not faster | Comments 7 Verge Score Apple iMac M3 review: searching for a purpose The latest version of Apple’s venerable all-in-one desktop is an excellent and beautiful computer. It just doesn’t fit most modern computing needs.
| Comments Tech Tech This smart garage door controller is no longer very smart | Comments 6 Verge Score Samsung Galaxy S23 FE review: parts bin revisited There’s nothing wrong with the Galaxy S23 FE, but it feels like an uninspired collection of surplus components rather than one for the fans.
| Comments Reviews Reviews Apple MacBook Pro 14 (2023) review: entry-level enigma | Comments Reviews Reviews The Echo Show 8 is still the smart display to beat | Comments Keyboards Keyboards HHKB Studio review: the trackpoint is the whole point | Comments Reviews Reviews UE Epicboom review: an epic price for an ordinary speaker | Comments The best robot vacuum for me is the one I hacked Robot Vacuums can be privacy nightmares. That is unless you run Valetudo.
| Comments Reviews Reviews The Ray-Ban Meta smart glasses actually make the future look cool | Comments 6 Verge Score OnePlus Open review: right size, wrong price The OnePlus Open finds a happy medium between the Pixel Fold and Galaxy Z Fold 5 size-wise, but it’s too close in price to the incumbent foldables.
| Comments Bose Bose Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones review: predictable excellence | Comments Reviews Reviews Ecobee Smart Doorbell Camera review: even better with the thermostat | Comments Intel Intel Intel Core i9-14900K review: a refresh in name and nature | Comments Reviews Reviews Asus Chromebook Plus CX34 review: a simple, smart purchase | Comments Youtube “What an awesome feature that borks your footage for you so you don’t have to bork it yourself.” DankPods remains undefeated.
Reviews Reviews 1,000 photos with the Pixel 8 Pro: AI, UI, and Pro stuff | Comments 4 Verge Score Microsoft Surface Laptop Go 3 review: why does this exist? The Go 3 is a nice-looking and well-built device, but the $999 price makes no sense.
| Comments External Link Jason Snell over at Six Colors has a review of the Boox Palma, a strange E Ink device that straddles the line between a phone and an e-reader.
The $280 Palma is not a phone, per se, as it doesn’t have any cellular connectivity. But it’s a six-inch, phone shaped thing that runs Android 11 and comes with an E Ink screen.
Snell notes that it works better than prior Boox devices because of some new software tweaks from Boox and the fact that Android apps still run best on a phone-shaped screen as opposed to a tablet. Still, I think I’ll wait for Boox to put these features on a larger screen.
[Six Colors] Google Google Google has fixed its recent history of terrible speakers with the Pixel 8 Pro | Comments 8 Verge Score Pixel 8 and 8 Pro review: in Google we trust? These might just be the Pixel phones we’ve been waiting for, but it all depends on how much trust you’re willing to put into Google.
| Comments Reviews Reviews Google Pixel Watch 2 review: better battery, better watch | Comments 9 Verge Score Framework Laptop 13 (AMD) review: buy this one — if you can The 2023 Framework Laptop 13 has a new AMD option, and it’s a stellar performer.
| Comments Keyboards Keyboards Drop CTRL V2 review: the keyboard gateway drug gets a glow-up | Comments 7 Verge Score Meta Quest 3 review: almost the one we’ve been waiting for Meta’s new headset is better than its predecessors in almost every way. But until there’s more to do in mixed reality, this won’t be the headset that gets everyone wearing headsets.
| Comments 8 Verge Score Yale Assure Lock 2 review: almost perfect Yale’s latest smart locks offer something for everyone: Apple Home Key, a fingerprint reader, and compatibility with every platform. You just can’t have it all. (And there’s still no support for Thread or Matter.) | Comments Toys Toys We built the $150 Xbox 360 made of Lego-like Mega bricks | Comments Reviews Reviews These are the macOS Sonoma features you should actually pay attention to | Comments Reviews Reviews The Cruz BlenderCap lets you make smoothies and shakes on the go | Comments iPhone iPhone 1,000 photos later, and the iPhone 15 Pro Max is still missing something | Comments 5 Verge Score Surface Laptop Studio 2 review: this could be so much more Microsoft’s new Surface Laptop Studio 2 has new chips, a new touchpad, and a very, very high price tag.
| Comments Pagination More Stories Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Apple says iPhones will support RCS in 2024 Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs A hefty stable Steam Deck update gives the Dock a brand-new feature Google’s new Titan security keys are ready for a world without passwords Installer / A weekly newsletter about the best and Verge-iest stuff you should know about.
Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
