Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sony HT-A7000 review: A fully loaded soundbar experience By Simon Cohen Close $1,300.00 Awesome music and movie sound Easy on-screen setup AirPlay 2, Chromecast Hi-res audio, 360 Reality Audio 2 HDMI inputs Upscaling of audio to 3D surround sound Expensive No manual EQ settings Subwoofer not included Soundbars come in all sizes, prices, and configurations. Some excel at providing two-channel stereo, while others opt for 3.1, 5.1, or even 7.1 surround sound. The most capable models feature Dolby Atmos , DTS:X, and often provide some form of multiroom streaming capabilities. Sony’s new $1,300 HT-A7000 7.1.2 soundbar does all of that, and much, much more, including wireless hi-res audio, Sony 360 Reality Audio, intelligent upscaling of a variety of audio sources, plus compatibility with home automation platforms from Apple, Google, and Amazon.
What’s in the box? Design Connections, setup, and configuration Sound quality Extras Our take Sony also gives you two models of wireless subwoofers, and a pair of wireless surround speakers to choose from, but these are optional upgrades that can bump the soundbar’s price well north of $2,000.
LG’s 2022 soundbars start at $400, pump out hi-res audio and 3D sound Sony’s HT-A5000 Dolby Atmos soundbar takes aim at Sonos and Bose What is 8D audio, and how can you experience it? Do all of these high-flying capabilities justify its equally lofty price tag? We put it to the test.
What’s in the box? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The HT-A7000 (which we’ll call the A7000 from here on in) comes packed in a fair amount of styrofoam, which is great for protection, but tricky to recycle in some locations. Inside, you’ll find the soundbar, a remote with two AA batteries, an HDMI cable, a special analog cable for connecting the bar to a compatible Sony Bravia TV (more on that later), a power cord, two wall-mount brackets, a wall-mounting template, and a quick-start guide.
Design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends At just over 51 inches wide, 3.25 inches tall, and 5.5 inches deep, there’s no getting around the fact that the A7000 is a big (and at 19 pounds, heavy) speaker. It’s almost as wide as a 65-inch TV, and ironically, it’s so tall it will obscure some of the bottoms of Sony’s own TVs, even when their stands are placed in their so-called soundbar position. Unless your TV is already wall-mounted or you plan to do so, best take some measurements before you hit that buy button.
Having two HDMI inputs is great — with many soundbars, you’re lucky to get even one.
Another consideration: Even if the A7000 fits under your TV between the legs, you don’t want to push it too far back — its upward-firing drivers (key to getting Dolby Atmos and DTS:X sound) shouldn’t be obscured by any other objects.
But despite its size, Sony has done a good job of minimizing the A7000’s appearance. The upward-firing drivers are concealed behind black fabric panels which wrap around the sides. The remainder of the bar’s top surface is made of black glass. It’s a fingerprint magnet, but when cleaned of blemishes, it looks really sharp. The glass houses a few touch controls that give you access to power, volume, source, Bluetooth, and a shortcut to Spotify Connect. A non-removable perforated metal grille completes the picture.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Behind that grille sits an array of drivers. They’re quite visible in these photos, but don’t worry — unless you shine studio lights on the A7000 as I did, you won’t see them at all. What you will see is a scrolling-text display that gives you key info like which source you’re currently playing from, volume level, audio format, and various other helpful messages. I’m not a big fan of these kinds of displays — I find the limited real estate and the scrolling text a bit annoying, but it’s way better than a series of color-coded LEDs that you’re forced to decipher (ahem, Vizio).
The great news is that Sony is one of the few soundbar companies that make full use of the A7000’s HDMI connection to a TV, giving you on-screen access to all of the speaker’s settings and modes.
Around the back of the soundbar, you’ll find several ports and connections including two full HDMI inputs with 4K /8K/ Dolby Vision passthrough, a dedicated HDMI ARC/eARC output, an optical input, an analog input, a USB port for music playback, and port for that Bravia center channel connection I mentioned earlier.
Having two HDMI inputs is great — with many soundbars, you’re lucky to get even one — but Sony doesn’t exactly make it easy to plug all of those cables in. The ports are buried inside a small cavity and packed very closely together.
Unless you’re going to be plugging/unplugging cables a lot, this isn’t a big deal, but I continue to be amazed that soundbar designers think that it makes sense for a USB port to be so inaccessible. I’d pick on Sony, but I’ve seen the same choice made by other brands too.
Inasmuch as the A7000 is a fully decked-out, modern soundbar, Sony’s remote control design is basically unchanged since the mid-1990s. While very functional, it’s festooned with buttons, some of which only work if you buy Sony’s optional wireless surround speakers. I actually like having all of those buttons given that the A7000 can partially replace an A/V receiver, but the absence of backlighting is disappointing at this price.
Connections, setup, and configuration Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If your TV supports HDMI ARC/eARC, which most models from the past seven years do, you can connect the A7000 to your TV via a single HDMI cable. If your TV doesn’t have this feature, you’ll still use an HDMI cable, but this will need to be joined by an optical cable too.
Unfortunately, if your TV can connect via HDMI ARC/eARC, there’s no way to use the optical port as a source for another device like a CD player — if it’s not being used to receive a TV audio signal, it’s essentially superfluous.
Once you’re connected, you can begin Sony’s superb on-screen setup procedure.
Those who use an optical TV connection won’t be able to get advanced sound formats like Dolby Atmos or DTS:X from their TVs, but given the A7000’s two HDMI inputs, there’s still plenty of opportunities to get these formats from Blu-ray players, streaming media devices, or other third-party boxes.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Once you’re connected, you can begin Sony’s superb on-screen setup procedure.
After less than five minutes, the step-by-step process guides you through placement, automatic calibration, setting up Spotify Connect, Apple AirPlay 2 , Google Chromecast, and Amazon Alexa integration — all without needing to use an app on your phone or that small, scrolling display.
Not that you’re without an app if you need it: The Sony Music Center app for Android and iOS gives you yet another interface for controlling the A7000, including the ability to group the soundbar with other Sony speakers.
I’ve struggled with voice intelligibility with other soundbars, but the A7000 is clear as a bell.
But thanks to Sony’s support of all three major home automation platforms (Apple HomeKit, Google Home , Amazon Alexa ) you can add the A7000 to virtually any multiroom scenario, whether your other speakers are Sony units or not.
Shortly after I published this review of the A7000, Chris Welch at The Verge published his review of the soundbar , and he pointed out something that’s worth knowing, especially if you’re a gamer: Those two HDMI 2.1 inputs might be able to pass through 4K /120Hz, 8K/60Hz, and Dolby Vision , but they don’t pass through variable refresh rate (VRR) or auto low-latency mode (ALLM) signals.
Is this an issue? I don’t think so. There’s only one very specific scenario in which this could cause you some pain: You own an Xbox Series X or S, or a gaming PC.
Your TV is VRR and ALLM compatible.
Your TV only has one VRR/ALLM-compatible HDMI input, and… That input is the same input that offers HDMI eARC.
If all of these things were true, then yes, the absence of VRR/ALLM passthrough could be a bit of a nuisance.
Sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As a single speaker, the A7000 does a superior job of handling both movies and music. If you’re wondering if Sony’s claims of a built-in subwoofer are the real deal or just marketing hype, I can assure you it’s powerful enough that you will feel those low-frequency effects if you pump up the volume. Even better, the center channel renders dialog with such clarity and precision, I doubt you’ll ever need to make use of the included voice enhancement feature. I’ve struggled with voice intelligibility with other soundbars, but the A7000 is clear as a bell.
When it comes to Dolby Atmos , the A7000 really delivers. But the speaker’s secret weapon is its Immersive AE (IAE) mode.
But regardless of the content you’re playing, I have two tips that I think will help if you find the audio underwhelming. First, Sony’s automatic room calibration seems to take a conservative approach to speaker levels. In my media room, the ceilings are low and the TV is way closer to the left wall than to the right. Heading into the advanced settings and adjusting parameters like the level of the height and side channels and their calculated distances to your listening position can make a huge difference to overall performance as well as immersive formats like Dolby Atmos.
Second, the A7000 is a beast when it comes to volume. At 75% of its range, I was already well beyond what I could comfortably tolerate in my room. But I found that there is a real sweet spot around the 45-50% level where the sound goes from good to great. I encourage you to explore all of these options in order to unmask the soundbar’s full potential.
Previous Next 1 3 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends When it comes to Dolby Atmos material, the A7000 really delivers — especially if you make the tweaks I described above. The side-firing tweeters help to project a wide soundstage, while the up-firing height drivers create that distinctive dome-of-sound effect that makes movies like Mad Max Fury Road and Ford v. Ferrari so enjoyable.
But the speaker’s secret weapon is its Immersive AE (IAE) mode. Accessible at the press of a button on the remote, it engages Sony’s 3D upscaling technology. So whether you’re watching 2-channel stereo TV shows, listening to streaming music, or even playing Dolby 5.1 surround content, it will be rendered as though it were mastered as a 7.1.2 source. Purists may find it overly processed, especially if you apply it to stereo tracks, but I found it addictive.
When listening to Dolby Atmos or while using IAE mode, Sony gives you a choice of three specialized sound modes: Cinema, Music, or Standard. As the names suggest, they provide some digital processing designed to enhance specific kinds of content. As with all kinds of EQ presets, you may find they improve or detract from your listening experience — I didn’t find them nearly as interesting as the Immersive AE feature itself.
But this brings us to my only real critique of the A7000: There’s no way to take control of the equalizer directly. No frequency-specific adjustments, no controls for bass, treble, or midrange — there isn’t even a loudness toggle that I could find.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Not that I would make a bunch of heavy-handed changes to the soundbar’s signature — it’s already pleasingly balanced to my ears — but the omission of these controls in a $1,300 system feels indefensible. If you’re serious enough about your home theater sound to make this level of investment, you should be able to get under the hood if you choose to do so.
The A7000 really brings Sony 360 Reality Audio to life.
The A7000 might just be the first soundbar I’ve auditioned that doesn’t make me wince when using Bluetooth. Using a Google Pixel 5, I streamed a variety of music tracks using Sony’s wireless hi-res audio LDAC codec as well as the garden variety AAC codec and both sounded really solid. Normally, there’s a big quality jump when you switch from Bluetooth to Wi-Fi streaming e.g. Chromecast or AirPlay, but with the A7000, they’re remarkably similar. I chalk this up to Sony’s DSEE Extreme upscaling tech, which is designed to restore lossy, compressed digital audio to an approximation of lossless audio.
I also did a brief tour through some Sony 360 Reality Audio (360 RA) tracks via Tidal HiFi to see how the A7000 handled it. This reinforced two things I already knew about 360 RA: Not all 360 RA tracks are created equal, and your speaker will determine much of the experience. I wasn’t especially impressed by Sony’s $700 SRS-RA5000 , a speaker the company designed expressly to deliver 360 RA audio, but the A7000 really brings this format to life.
Tracks like Dave Brubeck’s Take Five and even the much more recent Invisible by Duran Duran do not wow in any way, but crank up the Foo Fighters’ Everlong or The Chainsmokers and Halsey’s Closer and you begin to get a sense of 360 RA’s ability to place you within a live music environment.
Is it worth adding one of Sony’s wireless subwoofers and wireless surrounds? If you have the means, it’s absolutely something I’d recommend. As good as the built-in subwoofer and side-firing tweeters are, there’s simply no substitute for discrete speakers. The resulting combo is thrilling in every way.
Extras Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Unfortunately, my allotted time with the A7000 didn’t give me an opportunity to test out every single one of its many features, but they’re absolutely worth mentioning because they help illustrate how thoughtful Sony was in designing it.
You can connect a set of Bluetooth headphones for private listening. A lot of TVs support this, but if yours doesn’t, it’s really handy. Bose also offers this feature on its soundbars, but the company only promises that it will work with Bose headphones.
 Sony, uncharacteristically for a company that has a history of promoting its own technologies and standards, lets you use any Bluetooth headphones.
Through the Sony Music Center app, you can directly access Amazon Music, Apple Music, Tidal, TuneIn Radio, as well as any music on your home network e.g. on a network-attached storage (NAS) drive.
As mentioned earlier, if you own a compatible Sony Bravia TV, you can connect the A7000 via a dedicated cable and use the TV’s entire built-in speaker system as your center channel. I didn’t have a Bravia TV available, but I’m guessing the sound — especially for dialog and other on-screen sounds — will be pretty good.
Our take Though expensive, Sony’s HT-A7000 is a feature-loaded Dolby Atmos soundbar that sounds great on its own — and even better when accompanied by Sony’s optional wireless subwoofers and surround speakers. With an easy-to-use on-screen interface, taking advantage of the speaker’s full potential is much more intuitive than with some of the competition.
Is there a better alternative? I’m not sure there are any soundbars at this price or lower that are better than the HT-A7000, but there are two models that come to mind that offer better value, depending on your needs and tastes: LG’s $1,000 SP9YA will save you $300 and it comes with its own wireless subwoofer. Considering its excellent audio performance for both movies and music, and the ability to add wireless surround speakers later, it’s an excellent alternative to the HT-A7000. However, it only has a single HDMI input, it lacks Sony’s elegant on-screen menus, and you won’t be able to stream 360 Reality Audio. Some may also find its hard-wired power cord difficult to work with depending on the installation.
Vizio’s Elevate soundbar also costs $1,000 and includes wired surround speakers in addition to its wireless subwoofer, which means it’s a true all-in-one system. It has two HDMI inputs, but like many Vizio products, its primary focus is on being a TV companion, not a full alternative to an A/V receiver-based system. As such, it doesn’t support hi-res audio (unless it’s a Blu-ray disc soundtrack in Dolby TrueHD), Apple AirPlay 2, or Amazon Alexa, though it does have Chromecast onboard. Still, it’s a beautifully designed product that sounds amazing.
How long will it last? Sony builds great products and has a good track record of keeping those products updated with new software over time. I expect you’ll get many, many years out of the HT-A7000. With support for every audio format under the sun, it will be a long time before it’s considered obsolete.
Should you buy it? Yes. At $1,300, it’s an investment, but given its considerable capabilities and awesome sound quality, the payback will be many years of audio and video enjoyment.
Editors' Recommendations Sony’s latest Dolby Atmos soundbar is smart, modular, and one of its most affordable B&W Panorama 3 soundbar: Easy Dolby Atmos for $1,000 Sony’s HT-A9 promises fully immersive Dolby Atmos from four wireless speakers Sony’s HT-G700 could be the ultimate Dolby Atmos soundbar on a budget CES 2020 audio predictions: Expect more noise-canceling headphones and 3D music Product Reviews Sony Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Audio / Video While some might be still debating the merits of hi-res audio, the music industry is about to make a big shift into surround-sound audio. Of the two leading surround formats -- Dolby Atmos Music and Sony 360 Reality Audio -- Sony 360 appears to be getting a leg-up in the form of big support from Deezer. Not only is Deezer adding Sony 360-encoded tracks to its library of over 50 million songs, but the streaming company has also launched a dedicated app for the format, letting subscribers immerse themselves in the surround format if they choose.
Audio / Video When Sony gave us a chance to demo its new 360 Reality Audio format at CES 2019 earlier this year, we were very impressed with what we heard. Our only question was, when will we get a chance to experience it in the comfort of our own homes? The answer, according to Sony, is "late fall, 2019" -- in other words, much sooner than we expected. The immersive audio format, which will compete with Dolby's Atmos Music, will be added to Tidal, Amazon Music HD, Deezer, and Nugs.net through an initial release of about 1,000 tracks.
Sony says it's working with music labels including Sony Music Entertainment, Universal Music Group, and Warner Music Group to expand the amount of music that is produced in 360 Reality Audio. The initial 1,000-track library includes current hit artists such as Mark Ronson and Pharrell Williams, but also has classics such as Billy Joel and Bob Dylan. There's also going to be around 100 live concert recordings from Live Nation Clubs & Theaters.
Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
