Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sony HT-S400 review: A tough sell at this price By Simon Cohen Close $300.00 Simple setup Unobtrusive design Very good bass response Clear and detailed dialogue Wide soundstage with S-Force Pro Only TV or Bluetooth inputs Weak midrange definition No Dolby Atmos No Wi-Fi, AirPlay, or Chromecast Looking to improve the quality of your TV sound, but don’t want to mess around with speaker wires and complex setups? You need a soundbar.
 One of the newest options is the $300 Sony HT-S400 , a 2.1-channel soundbar that comes with a wireless subwoofer to help it deliver on the deep, low-end rumbles that give movies a theater-like quality.
Design Connections and setup Remote control Sound quality Our take Sony has opted to keep things super simple with the HT-S400. But in its quest to eradicate complexity, has it left its latest soundbar outgunned by the competition? Let’s take a look.
Denon’s new soundbar delivers Dolby Atmos at a budget price Sony’s HT-A9 promises fully immersive Dolby Atmos from four wireless speakers Design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sony’s classic, understated design philosophy works perfectly with soundbars. The HT-S400’s textured black plastic body and light gray metal grille call almost no attention to themselves, which should be the goal of any soundbar. At 35.5 inches wide and only a hair over 2.5 inches tall, you’ll be able to place this speaker in front of (and maybe under) almost any TV that’s 40 inches in screen size or larger.
The HT-S400 has the ability to connect to a TV via Bluetooth instead of the usual HDMI or optical cable.
The same can’t quite be said of its wireless subwoofer. It’s one of the biggest we’ve seen at this price at over 15 inches tall and 15 inches deep. Still, you should be able to stash it in a corner somewhere to make it less obtrusive. (Remember that subwoofer placement matters less due to the low frequencies.) Interestingly, as one of the few front-firing subs in this category, and with a completely protected driver, you potentially could lie it on its side, for even greater placement flexibility.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Speaking of wireless connections and placements, it’s worth noting that the HT-S400 has the ability to connect to a TV via Bluetooth instead of the usual HDMI or optical cable. Your TV will need to support the A2DP Bluetooth device profile, and sound quality won’t be as good as using a physical cable, but it’s a pretty handy option nonetheless.
If you want to wall-mount the soundbar, all you need is the wall-mount template included in the box, and a pair of screws — built-in keyholes and small plastic standoffs on the back panel should provide an almost flush-to-the-wall result. Should the soundbar block your TV’s infrared sensor, a built-in IR repeater on the back of the HT-S400 should prevent any communication problems.
Connections and setup Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If you like your technology simple and straightforward, you’ll love the HT-S400. Other than the Bluetooth option I mentioned above, there are only two ways to connect the soundbar to your TV: HDMI-ARC and optical. Sony includes an optical cable in the box, but if you’d prefer to use HDMI, you’ll need to supply your own HDMI cable.
With the exception of Bluetooth, there are no other options for connecting additional devices.
Whichever of these options you choose, you’ll get the exact same audio quality, so it really comes down to two things: Your TV’s outputs and your personal preference. If your TV doesn’t have an HDMI-ARC port, that makes things even easier — you’ll have to use the optical connection. Likewise, if you have an HDMI-ARC port, but not optical, the decision has been made for you.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends But if you have both — as I do on my 2017 LG OLED C7 — here’s how to make your decision. The HT-S400 doesn’t have an HDMI input for passing through video to your TV, so if you don’t want to give up an HDMI input on your TV, use the optical connection. But if you want to seamlessly control the soundbar using your TV’s remote, and don’t mind losing that HDMI input, go with HDMI ARC because it enables HDMI CEC — a control communication pathway shared by pretty much all HDMI-equipped devices. This is something optical connections can’t do.
Unfortunately, whichever you pick, you can’t use the other one as a secondary audio input, say for a CD player, Sonos Port , or a Blu-ray player. In fact, with the exception of Bluetooth, there are no other options for connecting additional devices. That USB port you can see on the back of the soundbar? Ignore it. It’s strictly for software updates and can’t be used to play music from an external hard drive or a thumb drive.
Once you’ve made your choice, the rest is a snap: Plug the soundbar into your TV, plug the wireless subwoofer into a wall outlet, then do the same with the soundbar. As soon as you power on your TV, it should recognize that the soundbar is connected, and you’re good to go.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends A small OLED display hidden behind the soundbar’s metal grille will show you whether you’re listening to the TV or Bluetooth, and it will also let you see adjustments as you make them to settings like volume, bass level, and sound field effect (more on that later). If the display is too bright, or you simply want it to turn off when you’re not using the remote, you can change its settings using the top-mounted controls on the soundbar.
I much prefer having a scrolling alphanumeric OLED display than a series of LED color dots that must be interpreted with the help of a legend — the way Vizio does on many of its soundbars — so kudos to Sony for including it.
If you happen to own a compatible Sony TV, and you connect the HT-S400 via HDMI, you can even see the soundbar’s settings on the big screen using Sony’s well-designed user interface, but I didn’t get a chance to test that.
Remote control Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sony includes a small and basic remote control with the HT-S400. It feels good in the hand, but it isn’t backlit for easy viewing in darkened rooms. Then again, it only has a few buttons that you’ll need with any regularity. A nice, big volume rocker takes center stage, with a smaller bass level rocker and mute buttons within easy reach.
Growling engines, approaching thunderstorms, the footfalls of a T-Rex, they all sound deep and thrilling.
Normally, Bluetooth would get its own button. But since the S400 only has two inputs (TV, Bluetooth), you access Bluetooth via the input button. “Night” engages the soundbar’s night mode, which reduces dynamic sounds so you can still hear what’s going without waking your housemates, and “Voice” places an emphasis on higher frequencies so you can make out dialogue a little easier. Finally, “Sound Field” lets you toggle Sony’s S-Force Pro front surround processing on or off.
Sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As a 2.1-channel system, with no support for Dolby Atmos or DTS Virtual:X, you should think of the HT-S400 as an upgrade to your TV’s internal sound system, as opposed to a full home theater solution. In other words, movies, TV shows, and music will all sound bigger and bolder — like they’ve been released from their audio prison — but they stop short of being fully immersive.
The HT-S400 isn’t quite as capable when it comes to the midranges, which tend to sound a bit hollow.
The biggest difference comes from the wireless subwoofer. It’s powerful enough to provide the low-frequency effects that we’ve come to associate with blockbuster Hollywood movies — growling engines, approaching thunderstorms, the footfalls of a T-Rex, they all sound deep and thrilling. The sub won’t shake your sofa or rattle your teeth, but given that the HT-S400 will likely find a home in condos and smaller rooms, that’s hardly a dealbreaker.
There’s also excellent clarity, especially in the higher frequencies, giving everything from gunshots to squealing tires a fun and visceral feel. Sony gives us a voice mode to enhance dialogue even further, but I found I almost never needed it.
However, the HT-S400 isn’t quite as capable when it comes to the midranges, which tend to sound a bit hollow. It’s much more obvious when listening to music than when watching TV, but there are still occasions when I expected a scene from a movie to feel richer than it sounded. One example is a scene from Denis Villeneuve’s Dune , where Duke Leto’s airborne ornithopter is approaching a spice harvester. Sonically, it’s a complex scene with voices and machinery competing with each other. A stronger midrange would have given the scene more realism without compromising the clarity of the dialogue.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sony’s S-Force Pro virtual surround sound does a great job of expanding the soundstage outward and even adds some depth. It never sounds overprocessed and I found I wanted to keep it on for both TV and music content. But as good as it is, you’ll need to keep your expectations in check. It won’t magically make up for the absence of physical surround speakers, but it’s absolutely more enjoyable than the unmodified stereo presentation mode, and I was impressed by how close it gets to the virtual Dolby Atmos capabilities I’ve seen in products like the Vizio M-Series 2.1 and Sonos Beam Gen 2.
As I mentioned above, Bluetooth lets you stream audio from any compatible device, and it’s the only way to listen to music on the HT-S400 without turning on your TV. As with most Bluetooth connections, it’s not a hi-fi experience and Sony doesn’t even attempt to optimize it with AAC or aptX support. Once again, it’s the pale midrange definition that keeps the system from being a strong substitute for more music-centric soundbars like the Sonos Beam or the Bose Smart Soundbar 300 , but given that those speakers cost $100 more and lack their own wireless subwoofers, perhaps that comparison isn’t very fair.
I’m tempted to wonder if a set of EQ adjustments could offset some of the midrange weakness, but Sony doesn’t let you adjust anything other than the amount of low-end coming from the subwoofer.
Our take With a powerful wireless subwoofer, the HT-S400 is a dead-simple way to take your TV watching to the next level. But at the price Sony is asking, we think it should offer better midrange definition and a few more features.
Is there a better alternative? There are several competitors worth mentioning — especially given their prices: The $180 Vizio M-Series 2.1 (M215a-J6) costs far less, has more inputs (including an HDMI passthrough port for video), and supports virtual Dolby Atmos. It also suffers from the same midrange weakness as the HT-S400, but given its sub-$200 price, I’m willing to accept that.
The $250 Polk React smart soundbar lacks its own wireless sub, but it’s an expandable system that lets you add a sub and surround speakers should you feel the need for them. It has very good overall sound and offers better midrange performance than the HT-S400. As a nice perk, it also has Amazon Alexa and Wi-Fi built-in so that it can be used as a smart speaker and as part of a multiroom audio system.
Finally, if you want a complete 5.1 surround sound system, it is very hard to beat the $300 Vizio M-Series 5.1 (M51a-H6) , which comes in at the same price as the Sony, but offers a much more immersive home theater experience.
How long will it last? Sony’s products are typically well-built and very reliable and I see no reason why the HT-S400 won’t last for as long as you need it to. Firmware updates will likely be rare, but when they are provided, you’ll be able to install them via a USB thumb drive. Sony backs the HT-S400 with a standard one-year warranty.
Should you buy it? Yes. Though expensive for what you get, the HT-S400 is still a great way to improve your TV sound. Owners of Sony Bravia TVs or other models with A2DP Bluetooth who want a wireless connection to their soundbar might have an additional reason to buy it, but we caution that this might reduce sound quality considerably.
Editors' Recommendations Sony’s latest Dolby Atmos soundbar is smart, modular, and one of its most affordable Sony’s HT-A5000 Dolby Atmos soundbar takes aim at Sonos and Bose Sony’s HT-G700 could be the ultimate Dolby Atmos soundbar on a budget Product Reviews Sony Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
