Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: What is Roku? Best Roku TVs How to Pair a Roku Remote The Roku Channel How to Use AirPlay on Roku Best Roku Devices Star Button on Roku Remote Home Audio / Video Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? TCL Roku TV Alto R1 Wireless Soundbar review: It’s so easy By Chris Wedel Close $179.00 Easy, one-cable setup No extra remotes needed Good audio quality Vocal enhancement and volume leveling features are nice No Dolby Atmos Only works with Roku-enabled TVs No audio input ports When building out a home theater, one of the first things you might do after picking out a television is add a sound system. One of the easiest ways to do this is by picking up one of the best soundbars.
 Because let’s face it, the built-in speakers found in TVs aren’t going to fill the room and help you feel immersed in your favorite movies. Roku knows this, and it’s been on a mission to make your audio experience better while also keeping things easy to set up. At CES 2021 in January, Roku announced a partnership with TCL to bring a wireless soundbar for Roku-ready TVs.
Can it really be that easy? Features and sound quality Our take The new Alto R1 is the result.
This new soundbar is designed to work seamlessly with Roku TVs and be virtually effortless to set up. Where more home theater sound systems will require, at the bare minimum, plugging a cable into your television — the only cable involved in setting up the Alto R1 is the one providing power. Part of the special sauce that makes this minimalist approach work is Roku ’s proprietary Wi-Fi Audio streaming technology. While that sounds great in theory, how does it pan out in reality? Follow along, and I’ll answer that very question.
TCL unveils its latest Roku-powered 5-Series and 6-Series TVs Roku blazes a wireless audio trail for new soundbars at CES 2021 This 50-inch TCL 4-Series Roku 4K TV is only $280 for Prime Day Can it really be that easy? Chris Wedel / Digital Trends When unboxing the Alto R1 soundbar, all that is included inside is the 31.5-inch speaker, hardware to mount the speaker to a wall, paperwork, and a power cable. There are no additional cables included in the box because none are needed since the only port on the soundbar is for the power cable.
My skepticism increased as I started to think that there was no way that pairing the soundbar to the TV could be this easy. So I powered on my 65-inch TCL Roku television and plugged in the Alto R1 to the wall outlet. Pairing the soundbar to the TV requires holding the Home button on your Roku remote for 5 seconds, selecting “Setup devices,” and then “Wireless soundbar.” After that, the TV and Alto R1 recognized each other, and the soundbar processed an over-the-air software update.
The process of adding the soundbar to my Roku TV couldn’t have been easier. There are no extra cables or remotes to manage. The TV automatically knows that the Alto R1 is paired, and when adjusting the volume via the Roku remote, the changes happen through the soundbar and not the built-in TV speakers. I use a Caavo Control Center to manage my home theater, and after making a few adjustments to it, I was controlling the volume for the newly paired soundbar.
Features and sound quality Chris Wedel / Digital Trends In use, Alto R1 is as no-frills as the setup is. It is a two-channel, 120-watt soundbar entirely managed via the Roku remote and your TV. However, that isn’t a bad thing. If you simply want to improve the sound for your Roku TV or use it for playing music from your phone via Bluetooth, this soundbar can accomplish that.
While you won’t find fancy features like Dolby Atmos and virtual surround sound in options like the Sonos Beam (Gen 2) has, the Alto R1 does have a few tricks such as the ability to provide more focus to the dialogue of whatever you’re watching and to automatically lower the volume of commercials. There is also a bass boost feature and volume leveling options within the sound settings accessible by pressing the Star button on the Roku remote.
In addition to the skepticism I had toward the simplicity of setting the Alto R1 up, was doubtfulness about the audio quality and how in sync it would be with the content on screen. Because the soundbar is entirely wireless in its connection to my television, I anticipated a delay in what I saw on screen and when I would hear it. To my delight, I didn’t notice it in the slightest.
Chris Wedel / Digital Trends Roku utilizes Wi-Fi to handle the connectivity instead of Bluetooth, which significantly reduces latency and increases the information capacity. I watched 4K HDR movies, live football games, and regular TV programming, and it all worked beautifully. Of course, even with bass boost enabled, the Alto R1 isn’t going to rival a setup with a dedicated subwoofer, but it’s also not trying to.
I have a relatively large rectangular living room, so filling it with balanced audio is difficult. The sound setup I usually use is a Vizio soundbar with two wireless satellite speakers and a wireless subwoofer — and it does the trick. As I began using the Alto R1, I tempered my expectations for getting a full-featured audio experience. But, surprisingly, the wireless soundbar did a fine job.
The audio was crisp, and the vocal enhancement features did a good job. It wasn’t a night and day difference, but there was enough of an improvement with it turned on that I can safely say it’s worth having. The soundbar is designed for TVs 43 inches and up, and I think in most situations, the Alto R1 will make most users quite happy.
Our take Chris Wedel / Digital Trends I would love to say that the Alto R1 will be a great choice for anyone simply trying to get better sound for their home theater and doesn’t want to fuss with a lot of setup — and I almost can. I say almost because it is only true if you have a Roku TV. Now, you don’t have to be using the absolute best Roku TV , but you do need a TV with Roku built-in. So, if you use one of the many great Roku streaming devices that you plug into your TV — you won’t be able to use the Alto R1.
Roku and TCL had a clear focus on what the Alto R1 would be good at — no-fuss setup process and ease of use. For those two points, the two companies did a fantastic job with this product. The process of going from out-of-the-box to using the soundboard couldn’t be much easier. The Alto R1 isn’t touting bleeding-edge features or even those becoming commonplace amongst other products like Dolby Atmos and virtual surround sound. Also, by including options like those, the other byproduct would be an increase in the cost, and at $180, it’s hard to argue with what the Alto R1 brings to the living room.
Is there a better alternative? There are plenty of soundbars that offer a complete feature package but will come at an inflated price. However, if you are willing to pay a bit more but want not too much more, then the Yamaha YAS-209 tops our list of best soundbars under $500 coming in at around $350. Not only will this soundbar provide a wider soundstage with support for DTS Virtual:X, a virtual 3D surround sound profile, but thanks to a separate subwoofer, it will also bring a low-end rumble to your favorite shows. It won’t have quite the same level of simplicity of setup as the Alto R1, and it will cost you a few more bucks, but the Yamaha YAS-209 does provide a more complete home theater audio experience.
How long will it last? TCL and Roku have both been on the home audio and video scene for quite a while now and bring that experience to the Alto R1 soundbar. Both companies also have done a good job of supporting their respective products, and thanks to the Alto R1’s Wi-Fi connectivity, the soundbar can receive OTA software updates to help it last for the long haul.
Should you buy it? Yes, if you are someone who wants to be engulfed from every angle by what you are watching, this isn’t the soundbar for you. While the Alto R1 does a solid job of producing good audio with virtually zero latency, it isn’t a surround sound device. This is because it is limited to 2 channels and doesn’t come with the ability to replicate 360-degree audio. But, if your goal is to upgrade the sound significantly above what your television has built-in, not spend much money to do so, and have a Roku-enabled TV, then the Alto R1 is well worth considering.
Editors' Recommendations TCL’s 2023 soundbars are affordable, but lack a key feature TCL’s latest soundbars go fully wireless at CES 2021 Enclave Audio now makes the most powerful Roku TV wireless speakers Roku’s Wireless speakers will link up with its smart soundbar for true surround CES 2020: TCL Alto 9+ is one of the first Roku TV Ready soundbars in existence Product Reviews Roku Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Speakers TCL Audio / Video One of the best features of HDMI ARC connection is being able to control basic functions of your soundbar like volume and power with your TV remote. Now, Roku's new Roku TV Ready initiative is taking things a step further, allowing soundbar makers to work with Roku software so you can control everything on your soundbar -- from EQ to sound modes -- all from your Roku TV remote.
The first manufacturer on the list is long-time partner TCL, which has committed to releasing at least one Roku soundbar in 2020. Sound United brand and storied audio company Denon has promised to launch some Roku TV Ready audio products as well, allowing you to control their high-quality sound machines from the Roku TV Remote.
Audio / Video When it comes to packing the latest technology into an affordable TV, few brands can compete with TCL. That reputation gains even more traction now that the company has opened up pre-orders for its 4K HDR QLED 8-Series Roku TVs. Available in both 65-inch ($2,000) and 75-inch ($3,000) sizes, these models are currently a Best Buy exclusive. Deliveries will happen by mid-November according to Best Buy.
The 8-Series list of features reads like a glossary of the latest audio and video standards. It's Dolby Vision-compatible for a truly outstanding HDR display and it also supports Dolby Atmos sound for an equally immersive audio experience. As a Roku TV, it benefits from the simplicity of the operating systems and a huge variety of streaming services.
Audio / Video If you find the world of home theater audio too complicated for your liking, Roku has just the ticket. Its new $180 Smart Soundbar puts everything you need to enjoy streaming media with great sound in one convenient package. It joins the more expensive $400 JBL Link Bar and the Bang & Olufsen Beosound Stage as the market for multi-use soundbars starts to expand.
With Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and of course, the Roku OS itself, there are two ways to use the 32-inch Smart Soundbar: If you already own a Roku TV or a Roku streaming device like a Roku Streaming Stick+, you can hook it up to your TV via HDMI-ARC or optical cable, and use it as a way to get much better sound out of your TV. It packs four 2.5-inch speakers, which can deliver 2-channel Dolby Audio to fill a room with sound. Your other option is to use the Smart Soundbar as your streaming device too -- it's perfect for people who have a "dumb" TV, or who would like to ditch their existing media streamer for a simpler, clutter-free setup. With Roku OS on board and compatibility with both Alexa and Google Assistant, the Roku Smart Soundbar is a modern take on the old home-theater-in-a-box concept.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
