Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Vizio M-Series 2.1 (M215a-J6) review: A Dolby Atmos intro By Simon Cohen Close $179.00 Great price Good assortment of inputs Easy setup Very good sound quality Dolby Atmos and DTS:X No Wi-Fi/AirPlay/Chromecast Only 2.1 channels Missing some midrange detail Why buy a soundbar ? It’s simple: You have a TV — possibly even a really great TV — but it still produces lackluster sound. Perhaps the dialogue is hard to make out. Or maybe the bass is insufficient to make your favorite movies come alive. Or perhaps you’ve been reading about surround sound formats like Dolby Atmos and DTS:X and you want to experience them for yourself. If any of these (or all three) are the case, you should consider buying a Dolby Atmos soundbar.
 And if you’re on a limited budget, you should consider buying the $178 Vizio M-Series 2.1 (M215a-J6). It scratches all of those itches without forcing you to become an audio/video expert, run wires all over your TV room, or splurge on a $1,000-plus sound system. Are there any catches? Let’s find out.
Design Connections Setup and controls Sound quality Our take Design Simon Cohen / Digital Trends In addition to being generally superb value for money, Vizio soundbars tend to be understated affairs with very plain, matte black plastic finishes and equally low-key acoustic fabric grilles. The Vizio M-Series 2.1 (M215a-J6) — which for simplicity’s sake I’ll call the M215a from here on in — is no exception.
Bose’s new flagship Dolby Atmos soundbar brings AI smarts to the dialogue problem Samsung adds HW-Q900C to its lineup of 2023 Dolby Atmos soundbars JBL reveals its new flagship soundbar at CES 2023: 15 channels and 1170W of Dolby Atmos power If you believe that soundbars should be heard, not seen, the M215a is as stealthy as it gets.
You get a 36-inch long soundbar that stands 2.24-inches tall (easily narrow and short enough to sit below the bottom of most flat-screen TVs) and a tiny wireless subwoofer. With a 5-inch driver embedded in a cabinet that measures roughly 9-inches cubed, the sub is adorably small, and you can place it almost anywhere.
Even the top-mounted physical buttons on the soundbar are discreet: Tiny, raised-plastic icons that call no attention to themselves at all. If you have a taste for gorgeous design or speakers that double as conversation starters, you should look elsewhere. But if you’re like me, and you believe that soundbars should be heard, not seen, the M215a is as stealthy as it gets.
Want to wall-mount it? Vizio includes two brackets that let the soundbar sit flush to the wall. Your biggest challenge will be figuring out how to route the cables so they’re not an eyesore.
Connections The Vizio M215a isn’t big on connection options, but neither does it skimp on them. You get an HDMI ARC/eARC port as the preferred connection to a TV (you’ll need to use this if you want Dolby Atmos or DTS:X) and there’s an HDMI input too — helpful if your TV is now shy on HDMI ports of its own.
That HDMI input can passthrough almost anything you can throw at it: 4K, HDR10, Dolby Vision ? Check, check, check. The only thing it doesn’t support is variable refresh rate (VRR) or 4K @ 120Hz, so if you’re a gamer, connect your PC or console directly to your TV.
You can connect your TV to the optical port instead, or you can use that port as a secondary input for a CD player or any other device that has an optical output, like a Sonos Port , which is great. Quite a few soundbars treat their optical inputs as TV inputs, which means they can’t act as their own discrete input, separate from HDMI ARC.
It’s a breeze to get going with the M215a.
You’ll find HDMI and optical cables in the box, which will save you from having to buy or dig one out of your cable collection.
There are two auxiliary ports — one for regular analog stereo signals and one that’s dedicated to smart speakers. If you plug an Amazon Echo or Google Nest mini into this jack, the soundbar can automatically drop the volume of your TV show or other audio while you’re talking to your preferred voice assistant. It also acts as an input for whatever your smart speaker can play, from streaming music services to audiobooks and games.
You can connect a phone, tablet, or computer wirelessly via Bluetooth for another way to stream music, or you can go really old school with the available USB port — connect a thumb drive and the speaker will play any MP3 or WAV files you’ve saved.
An additional HDMI input would have been nice, though also shocking — multiple HDMI inputs on soundbars are exceedingly rare these days, even when you pay a lot more than $178.
Wi-Fi, on the other hand, would have been even more welcome, as would Apple’s AirPlay 2 and Chromecast built-in , but alas, none of these are included.
Setup and controls Simon Cohen / Digital Trends It’s a breeze to get going with the M215a. Plug the soundbar into your TV via HDMI or optical, plug the soundbar and subwoofer into a wall outlet, and you should be in business. After a few moments, a confident-sounding male voice will let you know that the soundbar is looking for active connections and will tell you if there’s been a problem while trying to connect to the subwoofer. If all goes well, you should be able to turn on your TV and hear a much better sound than you’re used to.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends But that’s just for starters. Vizio includes a remote with its own built-in, backlit LCD screen, and it’s a handy way to delve into the M215a’s deeper settings. You can choose different listening modes (movie, TV, music, game, or direct), adjust specific levels (bass, treble, subwoofer, and dialogue), and enable/disable features like DTS Virtual:X, DTS TruVolume, and night mode, which reduces dynamic sounds so you don’t wake your kids/housemates/neighbors.
If you’re upgrading from your TV’s built-in speakers, you’ll be thrilled by the M215a.
Though the screen is backlit, the buttons aren’t, so you might still need a bit of ambient light to use the remote. It can be a bit tricky with Vizio’s soundbars to know exactly what’s going on. The only visual indicator is a series of small LED dots on the left side of the grille that must be interpreted via the user manual and/or the color-key label on the back of the remote. But here’s a hint: Long press on the OK button at any time and that voice will let you know what input you’re on and what kind of signal the soundbar is receiving. For instance, when watching a Dolby Atmos movie on Disney+, it said, “HDMI ARC, Dolby Atmos, Dolby Digital Plus,” which is everything you need to confirm what’s going on.
Sound quality Simon Cohen / Digital Trends If you’re upgrading from your TV’s built-in speakers, as many folks are, you’ll be thrilled by the M215a. The soundbar’s speakers project clear and precise sound, the subwoofer delivers plenty of low-end oomph, and you’ll get a genuinely expansive (if not quite immersive) soundstage for Dolby Atmos and DTS:X material, as well as standard stereo/Dolby 5.1 content via the DTS Virtual:X upscaling feature.
In fact, the DTS Virtual:X processing is so good, I recommend leaving it turned on for all of your listening activities. Don’t expect that tiny sub to rattle your windows or your teeth — it’s there to let you hear lower frequencies, not necessarily feel them.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends But if you’re more intent on comparing the M215a to other Dolby Atmos-capable soundbars, you’ll need to keep a few things in mind. First, there are no up-firing drivers to bounce sound off your ceiling to your listening position. Vizio “virtualizes” these height channels, which means you will get a greater sense of height from the M215a than you will from non-Atmos systems, but it’s not going to create that sense of objects flying overhead that you’ll get from Atmos systems with dedicated height drivers.
Second, this is a 2.1 channel system, so even the center channel and surround channels are being virtualized. That’s a lot of virtualization happening, and there’s a limit to just how effective it can be. But having said all that, it’s remarkable just how “big” the M215a can sound when using DTS Virtual:X or Dolby Atmos. Especially for movies, the system can create the illusion that you’re running two very powerful speakers sitting beside your TV — not below it. This makes everything more realistic, from dialogue to sound effects.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Out of the box, I found the EQ too light on bass, but thanks to the selection of settings, I was able to easily adjust for that. Once I got everything dialed in, my go-to Dolby Atmos test scenes (from Mad Max: Fury Road , Ford v. Ferrari , and Avengers: Infinity War ) sounded very good. The M215a is especially capable when it comes to dialogue enhancement, which is something of a surprise given the lack of a true center channel.
If there’s a weakness sound-wise, it’s in the midranges. Lows and highs are where you notice the biggest bang when it comes to home theater sound, but the midranges are where you get the subtleties — the extra details that let you feel truly immersed in your movies and shows – and the M215a doesn’t do quite as good a job with these frequencies as other soundbars, even after tweaking the settings.
Previous Next 1 8 Image used with permission by copyright holder Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Unless you’re in the habit of fanatically rewatching the same movies and shows, you’ll probably notice this midrange weakness most when listening to music, and it will be most noticeable when streaming over Bluetooth. For casual listening, Bluetooth is fine — the clarity is still really good — but it lacks depth. To get the most from your music, I strongly suggest using your smart TV or streaming media device to access your tunes, whether that’s through a streaming app like Apple Music, Spotify , or Amazon Music, or through a media player app like Plex.
These options will take advantage of the HDMI ARC/eARC connection, which is vastly superior to Bluetooth. Yes, that will mean you need to have your TV turned on, but it’s worth it, especially if one of your subscriptions gives you access to Dolby Atmos Music tracks.
Alternatively, you’ll get equally good results when connecting a CD player or other music playback device via the optical port.
Our take For the price, Vizio’s M-Series 2.1 M215a-J6 soundbar offers an excellent and easy upgrade for any TV. It’s not the most immersive way to experience Dolby Atmos or DTS:X, but it’s an affordable way to bring some of that 3D audio goodness into a small to medium-sized room.
Are there better alternatives? It’s nearly impossible to beat Vizio on price when it comes to soundbars. I’ve only found one other soundbar that comes even close: The TCL Alto 8+.
 I haven’t reviewed it, so I can’t speak to its sound quality, but TCL makes a good product. It’s a 3.1 channel unit with its own wireless sub. You get the center channel that the M215a is missing, and it has Wi-Fi/AirPlay 2/Chromecast built-in. But unless you can find it on sale at $150 (which Walmart is currently selling it for), it’s regular price is $279, making it quite a bit pricier than the M215a.
If you want an upgrade from the M215a, we strongly recommend its bigger brother, the $299 M-Series 5.1 M51ax-J6.
 It has a center channel and two surround speakers that wire into the subwoofer, which creates a much more immersive experience, while maintaining all of the ease of use and settings controls from the 215a.
How long will it last? With no software or firmware updates needed to keep this system running, it should last for as long as you want it to. Vizio backs its soundbars with a standard one-year warranty.
Should you buy it? Yes. At under $200, it might just be the best dollar-for-dollar investment you can make to get yourself a TV that sounds as good (or better) than it looks.
Editors' Recommendations The best Dolby Atmos soundbars for 2023 Sennheiser’s Ambeo Soundbar Mini is a pricey, bedroom-sized Dolby Atmos speaker Nakamichi’s wild Dragon 11.4.6 Dolby Atmos soundbar goes up for preorder this week Polk’s latest Dolby Atmos soundbars make for compelling Sonos Arc alternatives Sony’s latest Dolby Atmos soundbar is smart, modular, and one of its most affordable Product Reviews Soundbar Reviews Soundbars Speakers Audio / Video If it's summer, that must mean it's soundbar season. And right on cue, Samsung has announced that almost every soundbar model in its 2022 collection is now available from its website as well as partnering retailers. It's a group of speakers that's heavy on immersive audio thanks to Dolby Atmos support, and most of these models include special features that make them even more attractive if you own or are planning to buy a Samsung smart TV.
We'll first do a roundup of all of the technologies that Samsung is highlighting for 2022, and then we'll get right into the various models, with pricing, availability, and key specifications so you can begin your hunt for the best soundbar for you.
Audio / Video Denon has launched a new version of its most affordable soundbar that is equipped with built-in subwoofers and can reproduce Dolby Atmos content virtually via a 2.1-channel speaker system. The $249 Denon DHT-S217 will be available starting in May from Denon.com and authorized Denon retailers.
The DHT-S217 contains several significant improvements over the DHT-S216, which also sells for $249. The biggest feature is the 217's support for Dolby Atmos content. The soundbar uses virtualization to present Atmos' immersive 3D effect through just a left and right channel, but it should still produce a more effective home theater sound than the S216, which relied on DTS Virtual:X.
Audio / Video Polk has a new model in its MagniFi range of ultra-compact soundbars. The $499 MagniFi Mini AX bears a strong resemblance to its MagniFi siblings, but with one key difference: It supports both Dolby Atmos and DTS:X 3D surround sound formats. The new soundbar goes on sale on March 15 at PolkAudio.com and other official Polk retailers.
Unlike Polk's recently released $399 Signa S4, a more traditional-looking Dolby Atmos soundbar, the MagniFi Mini AX doesn't have dedicated upward-firing drivers to achieve to height sound effects that are the hallmark of both Dolby Atmos and DTS:X. Instead, the speaker virtualizes these channels through its five-driver array, with low-frequency effects being provided by the included wireless subwoofer.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
