Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best soundbar deals: Save on Bose, LG, Samsung, Sony, and Vizio By John Alexander , Lucas Coll and Andrew Morrisey Close A good home theater setup deserves a proper audio experience. The slim design of modern TVs doesn’t often leave room for quality sound coming straight from the television itself. This makes a soundbar the perfect complement. Soundbars make a great way to save on your home theater, as even the best soundbars often see a discount. Right now you’ll find all sorts of soundbar deals taking place, and they include some of the best audio brands on the market. We’ve rounded up all of the best soundbar deals you can choose from right now, and if you need additional help, check out our guide on how to buy a soundbar.
TopVision 2.0-channel soundbar — $38, was $100 JBL 2.0-channel soundbar — $130, was $200 VIZIO V-Series 2.1-channel soundbar — $140, was $160 LG SN4A 2.1 -channel soundbar — $150, was $200 Samsung HW-B550 2.1-channel soundbar — $228, was $278 Samsung Q-Series 3.1.2-channel soundbar — $330, was $600 JBL Bar 500 5.1-channel soundbar — $400, was $600 Vizio M-Series Elevate 5.1.2-channel soundbar — $600, was $800 JBL Bar 1000 7.1.4-channel soundbar — $850, was $1,200 How to choose a soundbar TopVision 2.0-channel soundbar — $38, was $100 TopVision It’s not often you can find a quality soundbar for just $38, but that’s exactly what you’ll be getting with the TopVision 2.0-channel soundbar. It offers more immersive listening than you can get straight out of your TV alone, and its 2.0-channel sound system produces well-balanced sounds no matter what you may be watching. The TopVision 2.0-channel soundbar is easy to set up, as it supports 3.5mm AUX and RCA connectivity, as well as optical wired audio input connectivity.
JBL 2.0-channel soundbar — $130, was $200 JBL This 2.0-channel soundbar by JBL is another great value play. You’re getting a lot of sound quality at a modest price point, as JBL is one of the most popular names in audio equipment for a reason. This soundbar has a built-in subwoofer for deep bass, and it helps create an immersive audio experience whether you’re watching action-packed movies, sports, and even concerts. JBL surround sound instantly brings movies, sports and music to life, making this soundbar a great upgrade over your TVs speakers.
VIZIO V-Series 2.1-channel soundbar — $140, was $160 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The VIZIO V-Series 2.1-channel soundbar is still very affordable, but with its sleek design and the addition of a wireless subwoofer for deep and accurate bass, it may be your TV’s new best friend. The soundbar supports DTS Virtual: X for room-filling sound, HDMI ARC for a higher-quality connection, and support for voice commands through devices powered by Amazon’s Alexa , Apple’s Siri , or Google Assistant.
LG SN4A 2.1 -channel soundbar — $150, was $200 LG The LG SN4A 2.1 -channel soundbar also comes with a wireless subwoofer, but with a carbon diaphragm that ensures excellent sound clarity. The soundbar also features LG’s Adaptive Sound Control to automatically make adjustments depending on whether you’re listening to music or watching movies. It also supports DTS Virtual: X and Bluetooth connection.
Samsung HW-B550 2.1-channel soundbar — $228, was $278 Samsung The Samsung HW-B550 2.1-channel soundbar supports Dolby Audio to create 3D sound, and DTS Virtual: X for an expanded listening experience. The included wireless subwoofer enables rich and powerful bass, but you also have the option of activating Bass Boost for an extra punch. You can also use Game Mode for more realistic in-game sounds by plugging in your console to the soundbar.
Samsung Q-Series 3.1.2-channel soundbar — $330, was $600 Samsung Samsung’s Q-Series soundbars are a great option to bring your home theater setup to life. This Q-Series 3.1.2-channel soundbar features Q-Symphony, which allows for a new level of audio immersion when paired with a Samsung TV. Adaptive sound helps you hear voices better even at a low volume, and this soundbar even has Game Mode Pro, which makes it a great option if you’re looking to make your gaming experience more immersive and fun.
JBL Bar 500 5.1-channel soundbar — $400, was $600 JBL The JBL Bar 500 5.1-channel soundbar includes theater-quality 3D surround sound, allowing you to hear extraordinary sound effects from everywhere in the room. It comes with a 10-inch wireless subwoofer that contributes to the thrill of action-packed movies and other deeply immersive viewing experiences. This soundbar has built-in wifi with AirPlay, Alexa Multi-Room Music, and Chromecast built right in, so all you’ll have to do is link the JBL Bar 500 with your favorite voice assistant-enabled device and you can instantly use it with voice controls.
Vizio M-Series Elevate 5.1.2-channel soundbar — $600, was $800 Riley Young/Digital Trends / Digital Trends With five channels, a wireless subwoofer, and two dedicated drivers that fire up to the ceiling for surround sound, the Vizio M-Series Elevate 5.1.2-channel soundbar definitely has what it takes to bring your home theater setup to the next level. The soundbar also supports Dolby Atmos and DTS Virtual: X, as well as HDMI eARC so that you’ll only need one cable to get everything working.
JBL Bar 1000 7.1.4-channel soundbar — $850, was $1,200 JBL The JBL Bar 1000 7.1.4-channel soundbar comes with detachable surround speakers, which allows you to place them at the back of the room for a true surround sound experience. Also included is a 10-inch wireless subwoofer for deep mass and room-rocking movie explosions. In addition to having PureVoice dialogue enhancement technology, this setup works with voice assistants and has automatic software updates, ensuring your system is always as new as it can be.
How to choose a soundbar There are a few main features you’re going to want to keep an eye out for when searching for the soundbar of your dreams, and you’re in luck because we’ve done all the hard work for you, making sure all of the bars we’ve selected have all the tools you need to create an immersive home viewing experience.
Having said that, there are some soundbars that bundle features that aren’t necessarily required but could be a welcome addition to your entertainment setup. For example, Vizio’s SmartCast bars have Chromecast Audio built-in, opening up the door to a Sonos-like multi-room music-streaming experience with support for both Google Play Music and Spotify right out of the box.
It’s also worth checking if the soundbar you’re eyeing up has an HDMI slot on board (all of the ones we’ve featured do) since it supports far more audio formats than a standard optical cable, including Dolby Atmos , Dolby Digital Plus, and DTS:X. You’re going to want at least one of these if you’re hoping to create the home theater to rule all home theaters — or something close.
Optical HDMI Stereo Stereo Dolby Digital Dolby Digital DTS DTS DTS:X Dolby Digital Plus Dolby Atmos Dolby True HD And if you’re only just starting to spruce up your home entertainment setup and haven’t invested in one already, you will probably benefit from a soundbar that comes with a subwoofer in the box. Fortunately, almost all bars on the market can be purchased as part of a bundle that includes a wireless subwoofer, so you shouldn’t have to search far and wide for this.
Whatever the case, for anyone looking for a soundbar, the core features are HDMI with support for either a Dolby or DTS format (or both) and a subwoofer if you want to add some floor-shaking kick to the experience.
Editors' Recommendations A massive Sonos Black Friday sale just started at Best Buy Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals: TVs, Fire Sticks, and more The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more Don’t miss these 32-inch TV Black Friday deals from just $90 Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Deals Cheapest Prices Soundbars Speakers Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
