Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Bose’s best soundbar is $200 off in Best Buy’s Labor Day sale By Jennifer Allen Close Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The many Labor Day sales going on at the moment mean this is a great time to save big on a high-end and popular soundbar like the Bose Smart Soundbar 900. Usually priced at $900, it’s down to $700 for a limited time only at Best Buy making it one of the best soundbar deals we’ve seen in recent times. If you want a more immersive experience, this is the soundbar you need. Check out what we know about it below.
Why you should buy the Bose Smart Soundbar 900 Bose makes some of the best soundbars you can buy right now. In the case of the Bose Smart Soundbar 900, it’s got a lot of key features going for it. It offers surround sound technology that provides the kind of immersion you always want to experience with a great home cinema setup. It has six full-range transducers including two new custom-engineered up-firing dipole speakers, a center tweeter, and speaker arrays connected to Bose PhaseGuide technology.
Ensuring its place among the best Dolby Atmos soundbars , the Bose Smart Soundbar 900 has Dolby Atmos but it can also intelligently analyze signals other than Dolby Atmos such as stereo or 5.1 before up mixing them to create a fully immersive multi-channel sound experience. There’s also ADAPTiQ technology which fine-tunes the system’s sound specifically to the room it’s in.
Providing powerful sound doesn’t have to be hard either as the Bose Smart Soundbar 900 has a super easy setup. It just connects via HDMI eARC or the optical audio connection with the relevant cables provided. Via the Bose Music app, you can set it up as well as choose your voice assistant. Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant is supported here while you can also group the Bose Smart Soundbar 900 together with other Bose speakers for a seamless audio experience throughout your home. It’s so much more than just a regular soundbar and it’s befitting of anyone’s sweet home setup.
Usually priced at $900, the Bose Smart Soundbar 900 is currently available for $700 at Best Buy. It’s Labor Day sales season so it won’t stay this price for very long. If you’re keen to buy it, hit the buy button now before you miss out on the $200 saving.
Editors' Recommendations Snag the Bose QuietComfort 45 headphones for $199 (40% off) The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now The best early Black Friday headphone and earbud deals now Deals Soundbars Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Web Best Buy is pulling out the big guns this Black Friday to compete with Amazon Black Friday deals, and we're seeing a lot of great deals across the board, whether you want a laptop, a vacuum cleaner, or a fitness tracker. Of course, there are a lot of deals to go through, so we've done our best to collect some of our favorite ones below so that you don't have to. We'll also be updating this page as more and better deals come along, so be sure to check back regularly. Also, be sure to check out the Walmart Black Friday sale, as it's also going all out in the hopes of competing with Amazon.
Top 3 Best Buy Black Friday Deals Nest Hub -- $60, was $100 Audio / Video This is one of the most attractive OLED TV Black Friday deals in the market right now -- a $1,600 discount from Best Buy for the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV, which slashes its price from $3,600 to $2,000. It's still not cheap even with the savings, but this is the kind of purchase from Best Buy Black Friday TV deals that will totally transform your living room. We're not sure if this offer will remain online through to the shopping holiday though, so if you don't want to miss out, it's highly recommended that you complete the transaction immediately.
Why you should buy the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV You shouldn't underestimate how big the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV is -- you need to consult our guide on what size TV to buy if you have enough space for it. If you do, then you should be looking forward to watching the most popular shows and movies with 4K Ultra HD resolution, with the TV's Neural Quantum Processor with 4K Upscaling capable of upgrading the quality of all kinds of content. The Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV runs on the Tizen platform to grant you access to your favorite streaming services, and it even comes with the Samsung Gaming Hub that collects all video games streaming services in one place.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
