Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to dispose of your old AV equipment and tech gear By Michael Bizzaco Close Remember the glory days of watching and re-watching Jurassic Park III on the Sony DVD player you bought back in 2001? Or how about the year you invested in that Denon 5.1 receiver for your new speaker system ? Like dear family members, our AV equipment can become engrained in the fabric of our lives. But with new and shiny streaming devices , soundbars , and TVs arriving in our homes, many of our older devices are transported to basements, attics, and under the stairs.
Donate your electronics Sell, sell, sell Seek the services of your municipality Drop off your gear at Best Buy Recycling with Samsung and other brands Look to the EPA But contrary to the world of anthropomorphized radios and lamps that films like The Brave Little Toaster want us to believe, our electronics possess no hearts, brains, or souls, so it’s perfectly okay to part ways with vintage gear when it’s no longer needed.
That being said, simply tossing your AV equipment into a dumpster or trash can is one of the worst things you can do for the environment. Fortunately though, there are many different ways you can safely and responsibly dispose of your old AV gear, and we’ve rounded up some of our favorite options below.
Donate your electronics Amazon If you’re feeling benevolent or simply want to give back to your community, one great way to be rid of your AV gear is by donating it. Places like Goodwill and Salvation Army will usually accept AV products like speakers, Blu-ray/DVD players , and other components. And even if your old receiver is only 25% operational, there’s a good chance the donation depot will still take it. Even if you’re sitting on some like-new equipment though, it’s always a good idea to call the company or hop on the website to learn more about the donation center’s donation policies.
Another benefit of donating is that many donation centers will provide you with a receipt that you can then use to report your contribution on your tax return. Doing so could result in less tax owed when you file, or even some type of tax refund if Uncle Sam deems you worthy.
Sell, sell, sell Depending on the age and condition of your AV equipment, there’s a chance you may be able to sell the gear for a profit. In fact, even if it’s on the vintage side, or if one or two functions of the device aren’t working, you’d be surprised how many video and audiophiles will still want to purchase it.
Depending on the peripheral, it can be extremely difficult to get your hands on certain antique components, which is why we’re betting that many enthusiasts or collectors would be more than pleased to take something off your hands for a price.
Reputable hubs for conducting these types of transactions are sites like Facebook Marketplace, Craigslist , and OfferUp.
 If you want to hone in on more hi-fi and audio-specialized resources, sites like US Audio Mart are community-based and offer rankings for sellers and buyers to cut down on the dodgy factor. You can also check out what audio-related Facebook groups you can join to spread your ad out to more folks.
Seek the services of your municipality Photo: Lee Chapman / Lee Chapman Cities and towns aren’t totally anti-AV when it comes to picking up your busted-up soundbars and game systems. There’s a good chance that the trash and recycling teams that service your community have certain e-waste pickup dates. While you may have to slap a label on the equipment to designate it as e-waste, this is one of the easiest ways to get rid of your gear without having to transport it somewhere yourself.
Do keep in mind that even if your city, town, or county offers e-waste pickup dates, you may have to call in advance to schedule a pickup for certain items like older TVs. Some communities may also impose a fee for these types of services.
And even if the trusty landfill isn’t doing any e-waste collections for some time, it’s still a good idea to hop on your town’s website to see if any local churches, libraries, or other community facilities are holding some type of charitable event in the near future.
Drop off your gear at Best Buy Best Buy We turn to retailers like Best Buy and Walmart when it comes time to invest in new electronics, but brick-and-mortar stores (as well as certain online outlets) can also come in handy when it’s time to get rid of your old stuff. Both Best Buy and Walmart offer recycling for all kinds of electronics, including certain TVs (there’s usually a size limitation). In most cases, all you’ll have to do is load up your vehicle with whatever gear you want to get rid of, and let an employee know you have electronics you’d like to recycle.
A lot of the time, stores like Best Buy will even have recycling bins for smaller electronics (like smartphones and old wires) staged right at the front of the store, too.
If your old gear isn’t exactly “old” by industry standards, and you’re looking to upgrade the device(s), you should also check to see if your go-to big box store offers some kind of trade-up program. If it does, you may be able to score an in-store credit that you can use toward the purchase of a newer component.
Recycling with Samsung and other brands Samsung Believe it or not, there’s a decent handful of electronics manufacturers that offer both recycling and buyback programs for qualifying devices. In the case of a company like Samsung , there’s an entire e-waste web portal. After choosing a product category (like TVs or smartphones), you’ll be able to scroll down and select from a number of links that are tethered to your e-waste filter.
These links include options like recycling center discovery, as well as external navigation to Samsung’s Mailback program , which is run by a company called OEM Takeback.
Brands like LG and Audio Technica also have their own recycling programs and resources, as well as many other AV companies. It’s easy enough to run a quick Google search for whatever brand of item you’re planning to get rid of, followed by phrases like “recycling program” or “e-waste.” Look to the EPA Recycling centers are a great way to offload your AV gear, and even if there’s not a local plant in your zip code, there’s a good chance you’re not too far away from a facility.
If you’re not sure where to locate your nearest recycling center, the Environmental Protection Agency’s website is a solid resource. Not only does the site have a search tool for tracking down eco-friendly depositories, but you’ll also be able to learn more about e-cycling from perhaps the most trusted authority on the matter.
Editors' Recommendations How to recycle your TV Soundbars Tech for Change The Food Fight Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
