Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This JBL soundbar with wireless subwoofer is $150 off at Best Buy By Aaron Mamiit Close JBL Buying the latest models from TV deals will get you amazing video, but you’re going to want to give your audio a boost by taking advantage of soundbar deals.
 Here’s an offer from Best Buy that strikes a nice balance of price and features — the JBL Bar 2.1 Deep Bass soundbar for $200, which is nearly half its original price of $350 following a $150 discount. There’s no information on how much time remains for this lowered price though, so if you want this 2.1-channel soundbar for your home theater setup, you’ll need to proceed with the purchase right away.
Why you should buy the JBL Bar 2.1 Deep Bass soundbar JBL is one of the most trusted brands in the audio equipment industry, so be sure you’re getting a top-quality device with the JBL Bar 2.1 Deep Bass soundbar.
 It’s a 2.1-channel soundbar, which means that it comes with two channels — left and right — and a subwoofer, according to our guide on how to buy a soundbar.
 The 6.5-inch wireless subwoofer delivers powerful bass that just the soundbar itself won’t be able to create. The soundbar , meanwhile, features 300W of total output power, four mid-range drivers, two tweeters, and a Dolby Digital decoder for improved clarity, which all combine for a cinematic experience when you’re watching your favorite shows and movies.
You can link the JBL Bar 2.1 Deep Bass soundbar to your TV using an HDMI, optical digital audio, or USB-A connection. You also have the option to use it like a Bluetooth speaker for your mobile devices using a Bluetooth connection, so you can play your music on the soundbar when nobody’s watching TV.
The JBL Bar 2.1 Deep Bass soundbar is what you need if you’re hoping for a much better audio experience in your living room. It already provides amazing value for your money at its sticker price of $350, so it’s a steal at its discounted price of $200 from Best Buy. We’re not sure how long you’ve got until you miss the chance at $200 in savings for the JBL Bar 2.1 Deep Bass soundbar though, so if you’re interested, you’re going to have to add it to your cart and complete the transaction as soon as you can.
Editors' Recommendations A massive Sonos Black Friday sale just started at Best Buy Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday Bose’s new Smart Ultra soundbar just had its price slashed Deals Soundbars Audio / Video There's no shortage of QLED TV Black Friday deals this year, but it will be tough to find a better offer than Best Buy's lowered price for the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. Instead of $450, you'll only have to pay nearly half that following a $220 discount, for an eye-catching price of $230 for the shopping holiday. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if you want to take advantage of the huge savings though, because we're pretty sure that this bargain is attracting a lot of shoppers. Proceed with the transaction now so that you don't miss out.
Why you should buy the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV The TCL Q5 4K QLED TV features a 55-inch display with 4K Ultra HD resolution, which guarantees sharp details and lifelike colors when you're watching your favorite shows and movies, and it supports most advanced HDR formats for even better picture quality. Its built-in Google TV platform grants access to all of the most popular streaming services like Netflix and Disney+, while also making the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV compatible with voice commands through smart home devices that are running on Google Assistant or Amazon's Alexa.
Audio / Video No home theater is complete without the proper audio. Yeah, sure, you start with a fantastic, maybe even massive TV, currently on sale in Black Friday TV deals, and spring for the bells and whistles while you're at it. But nothing feels more immersive than audio that surrounds you, making it sound like jets are flying overhead, explosions are in your living room, and the music is permeating from somewhere high in the sky. You could spend some time scouring through the best Black Friday deals to see if you can find some audio and soundbar deals, but we'll do you one better. We've rounded up all of the best Black Friday soundbar deals right here in one place. That way, there's no need to jump around, unless you're listening to some House of Pain.
Best Vizio soundbar Black Friday deals VIZIO has a solid mix of affordable, mid-grade, and premium options. Here are all of the best VIZIO soundbar Black Friday deals we could find: Audio / Video The Roku streaming platform is a popular choice for smart TVs, whether as a built-in operating system or as add-on hardware. While its main purpose is to grant you access to all of the most popular streaming services like Netflix, Disney+, and Amazon Prime Video, it also enables voice commands for functions such as controlling playback and searching for shows and movies to watch, while also offering free content for you to consume. If you're interested in Roku, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals that will let you jump into the platform, but you need to hurry with your purchase because we're not sure how much time is remaining on these offers.
Best Roku TV Black Friday deals While some of the best TV brands use Roku for the operating system of their products, Roku has rolled out its own line of TVs. With resolutions ranging from HD to 4K Ultra HD, you'll be able to enjoy your favorite shows and movies with bright colors and sharp details, with prices that start from budget displays and going all the way up to premium screens. These TVs are also excellent for playing video games and accessing cable channels, and our recommendation is to go for the largest model that you can afford -- but consult our guide on what size TV to buy first to make sure that you have enough space.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
