Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This Polk Audio soundbar and subwoofer is discounted from $499 to $200 By Aaron Mamiit Close Polk Audio If you’re searching for soundbar deals , here’s one that you should definitely consider — the Polk Audio MagniFi 2 soundbar and subwoofer for a very affordable $200, following a 60% discount from Amazon on its original price of $499. That’s equivalent to huge savings of $299, which you can spend on upgrading the rest of your home theater setup. You’ll need to hurry with your purchase if you’re interested though, as we don’t know how much time is remaining before this offer expires.
Why you should buy the Polk Audio MagniFi 2 soundbar and subwoofer The Polk Audio MagniFi 2 soundbar is equipped with six powerful drivers and comes with an 8-inch wireless subwoofer to boost the audio of your home theater setup, as even the best TVs are too thin to feature powerful speakers. The plug-and-play subwoofer is instantly recognized by the soundbar as soon as you turn it on to simplify installation, and with three HDMI inputs and an HDMI ARC output, there’s no shortage of ways to connect the system to your TV. You can also wireless connect your mobile devices to the Polk Audio MagniFi 2 using Bluetooth , Wi-Fi, or Google’s Chromecast.
Making the Polk Audio MagniFi 2 stand out among the best soundbars is the brand’s Stereo Dimensional Array technology, which delivers a larger soundstage that maximizes clarity and minimizes delays for the movies and shows that you’re watching. The soundbar and subwoofer can also work together to create surround sound for an immersive listening experience that will make you feel like you’re in the cinemas while in the comfort of your living room.
Your home theater setup will receive an audio upgrade with the Polk Audio MagniFi 2 soundbar and subwoofer, which is currently a very tempting purchase as it’s 60% off on Amazon. From its original price of $499, you’ll enjoy savings of $299 as you’ll only have to pay $200. We don’t expect this huge discount to last long though. There’s a chance that the price of the Polk Audio MagniFi 2 soundbar and subwoofer returns to normal as soon as tomorrow, so if you want to get it for much cheaper than usual, it’s highly recommended that you buy it now.
Editors' Recommendations Snag the Bose QuietComfort 45 headphones for $199 (40% off) Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals: TVs, Fire Sticks, and more All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now The best early Black Friday headphone and earbud deals now Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Deals Amazon Soundbars Audio / Video We didn't expect the Bose Smart Ultra, which was rolled out just over a month ago, to have its price slashed for this year's Black Friday soundbar deals, but you shouldn't be complaining. Amazon is offering the soundbar for $799 instead of its original price of $899, for savings of $100. It may not be much of a discount, but you might as well take advantage of it if you're interested in the brand's latest flagship Dolby Atmos soundbar. There's no telling how much stock they've put up for sale with this cheaper price, so before the bargain gets taken down, you should complete your purchase.
Why you should buy the Bose Smart Ultra soundbar The Bose Smart Ultra soundbar is the successor of the Bose Smart Soundbar 900, with the major upgrade being the addition of an AI-driven dialogue mode that makes spoken words much easier to hear and understand using machine learning. This is especially important when watching live shows and sports programs, as there's no available subtitles for such content. Meanwhile, similar to its predecessor, the Bose Smart Ultra soundbar features up-firing drivers that bounce sound off the ceiling to your listening position, which enables Dolby Atmos and other surround sound formats.
Audio / Video Headphones are great when you're jamming on your own or listening to an audiobook, but if you're with friends or family, you'll find something that's a bit more accessible to more folks. That's where Bluetooth speakers like the Skullcandy Barrel come in; you can all listen to some great music or create a great atmosphere, and it's even great for playing tabletop RPGs like Dungeons and Dragons. You also don't have to spend much money to get a good one, as Walmart has a great deal on the Skullcandy Barrel, bringing it down to $79 from $90.
Audio / Video There's no better time to purchase wireless headphones or wireless earbuds than during Black Friday, and this year won't be an exception as different retailers have rolled out eye-catching discounts. If you've got an eye on Beats products, the good news is that there's a lot of Black Friday deals involving the audio accessory brand that you can choose from. In fact, there may be too many of them, so we've gathered our top picks below so you won't have to go through all of them yourself. You better hurry with your purchase though -- with Beats being one of the most popular names in the industry, stocks of these Black Friday headphone and earbud deals may not last long.
Best Beats Headphones Black Friday Deals If you're looking for headphone deals, Beats is an excellent choice because of the brand's trademark style and advanced features. Additionally, there's something for everyone, whether you're just a casual music lover or a creative audio professional, across a wide range of prices starting from the relatively affordable Beats Solo 3 to the premium Beats Studio Pro. You should purchase brand new headphones if you can afford it, but going for a refurbished device is perfectly fine because of retailers' guarantees that they will work without any issues, and that they will still look fresh. You'll have to decide quickly what to buy among the following offers though, as offers for Beats headphones rarely last long due to the massive demand for them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
