Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 best soundbar deals in Best Buy’s ‘Early Access’ Black Friday sale By Aaron Mamiit Close If you’re thinking about buying a soundbar to improve the audio of your home theater setup, you’re in luck because you can enjoy huge discounts in Best Buy’s Black Friday Early Access sale. If you’re a My Best Buy Plus or My Best Buy Total member, you’ll unlock even more offers, so you should think about signing up if you haven’t already done so. The sale runs through the weekend, but if you want to make sure that you get the soundbar deals that you want, you should complete the purchase immediately as stocks are probably running low for some of these bargains.
Vizio V-Series 2.1-channel soundbar — $140, was $160 Bose TV Speaker — $200, was $280 LG S75QR 5.1.2-channel soundbar — $300, was $450 Samsung Q Series 5.1.2-channel soundbar — $480, was $800 Sennheiser Ambeo Max 5.1.4-channel soundbar — $1,700, was $2,500 Vizio V-Series 2.1-channel soundbar — $140, was $160 Vizio The Vizio V-Series 2.1-channel soundbar, as explained by our guide on how to buy a soundbar , features just channels — the basic left and right — while the “1” means that it come with a wireless subwoofer. The soundbar can also accept voice commands for your preferred digital assistant between Amazon’s Alexa , Google Assistant , and Apple’s Siri.
 The Vizio V-Series 2.1-channel soundbar, originally $160, is on sale for just $140.
Bose TV Speaker — $200, was $280 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Bose TV Speaker is an elegant and effortless way of improving your TV’s audio output, as all you need to do is to plug the soundbar to your TV, then plug the soundbar’s power cord into the wall. You can activate Dialogue Mode if you want to hear spoken words more clearly, and you can press the Bass button if you want richer and deeper sound. You can also play music from your mobile devices on the soundbar through a Bluetooth connection. The Bose TV Speaker will be yours for just $200, after an $80 discount on its sticker price of $280.
LG S75QR 5.1.2-channel soundbar — $300, was $450 LG The LG S75QR 5.1.2-channel soundbar offers five channels, a wireless subwoofer, and two upwards-firing speakers to enable Dolby Atmos and DTS: X for incredible surround sound that will make you feel like you’re in the middle of the action. The soundbar also supports HDMI eARC connections, so you’ll only need one cable to connect it to your TV, and it can link to your mobile device to function like a Bluetooth speaker. The LG S75QR 5.1.2-channel soundbar is available for $350 instead of $450, but My Best Buy Plus and My Best Buy Total members can get it for just $300.
Samsung Q Series 5.1.2-channel soundbar — $480, was $800 Samsung The Samsung Q Series 5.1.2-channel soundbar supports Dolby Atmos surround sound with its five channels, wireless subwoofer, and two upwards-firing speakers, while Samsung’s SpaceFit Sound Pro will calibrate its output according to the space where the soundbar is located. It can connect to your favorite voice assistant to join your smart home setup, while Q Symphony technology will allow the soundbar to work in tandem with a Samsung TV’s speakers for even better audio. From $800, the Samsung Q Series 5.1.2-channel soundbar is down to $480 for savings of $320.
Sennheiser Ambeo Max 5.1.4-channel soundbar — $1,700, was $2,500 Sennheiser The Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Plus , which we highlighted in our list of the best soundbars , uses the Ambeo digital signal processing that’s found in the Sennheiser Ambeo Max 5.1.4-channel soundbar, which offers five channels, a wired subwoofer, and four dedicated speakers for enabling Dolby Atmos and DTS: X for 3D surround sound. You’ll enjoy powerful sound for all forms of entertainment with the Sennheiser Ambeo Max 5.1.4-channel soundbar, which is available for $2,000 instead of $2,500, but there’s an additional $300 off if you’re a My Best Buy Plus or My Best Buy Total member.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday AirPods Deals: Get Apple’s earbuds for $59 The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs Early Amazon Black Friday TV deals you can shop right now The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now Deals Soundbars Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
