Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Can curved speakers make TV dialogue easier to hear? By Simon Cohen Close Soundfun You’re not imagining it: dialogue quality for movies and TV shows has been deteriorating due to how our favorite streaming services handle compression. And while there’s no universal fix on the horizon, there is a new tool that might help restore some of the lost details. Japan’s Soundfun has released its newest Mirai Speaker, a $300 soundbar that leverages unique curved speaker diaphragms. Soundfun claims the Mirai can deliver clearer audio and dialogue without pushing volume levels through the roof.
You’ll be able to order the soundbar via Soundfun’s website or Amazon later in November.
1.
Can’t hear your TV show’s dialogue? 2.
Maybe a Mirai Speaker will help.
3.
And then you’ll be happy. Right? Though the Mirai Speaker is Soundfun’s first stereo soundbar, it’s not its first dialogue-enhancing, curved-speaker product. It debuted its technology via an Indiegogo campaign in 2022, using a much smaller, mono-only speaker that only worked with TVs that had an analog output like a headphone jack. We could only find one published review , which was decidedly mixed in its appraisal of the first Mirai effort.
Soundfun The new Mirai Speaker changes up the original formula by positioning the curved speakers sideways instead of vertically. It also gets a much-needed optical input to go along with its analog input.
The principle at play, however, remains unchanged. The curved diaphragms are intended to clarify spoken content for those who have hearing difficulties, while also spreading sound more efficiently across a wide and deep space so that everyone in the room can hear clearly.
Soundfun The included remote gives a strong clue as to who the Mirai is primarily aimed at. With just three buttons — volume up/down, and mute — the simplified layout will appeal to an older demographic that just wants to hear their TV shows and movies clearly.
Amazon debuts its first Fire TV soundbar and faster Fire TV sticks Can you buy NFL Sunday Ticket on a TV? Yes, no, and sort of MediaTek’s new Pentonic 1000 processor may make your next TV even better The Mirai Speaker isn’t the first soundbar designed specifically for dialogue enhancement. ZVOX also makes a line of soundbars, including the AV157 , that promise similar benefits, but instead of using special drivers, ZVOX leverages its own EQ profiles to boost certain frequencies.
Editors' Recommendations You Asked: Soundbars vs. receivers, TVs with no speakers, and car stereos What is mini-LED TV? How smaller, brighter LEDs can deliver better TV picture quality New My Netflix tab looks to make streaming on the go a bit easier Chromecast with Google TV makes the leap to Android 12 LG’s 42-inch LX3 OLED TV can bend when you want it to Soundbars Tech News Audio / Video A report from Protocol's Janko Rettgers suggests that YouTube TV is planning to add the ability to watch as many as four live feeds at once. That's not a new phenomenon for streaming TV. The defunct PlayStation Vue had it, and FuboTV also sports the feature.
That play on words is intentional. It's the sort of feature that makes perfect sense for a streaming service that serves sports fans. And while FuboTV long has positioned itself that way publicly, YouTube TV also has leaned heavily into live sports in a few ways.
Audio / Video MicroLED technology promises to one day give us absolutely huge TV screens at accessible prices. But that day is not today. Instead, it is being used to create some of the most dazzling -- and exorbitantly expensive -- TVs on the planet, like the stunning, folding 4K M1 TV from Austrian brand, C Seed, which will set you back $400,000. But we've got great news for those who simply refuse to spend more than $200,000 on a folding TV: C Seed has just announced the folding 4K N1 TV, which you can add to your home (or superyacht) for the miserly sum of just $190,000.
But just to keep your expectations in check, $190,000 is the starting price for the N1. For that amount, you're looking at the smallest screen size of just 103-inches. It's available in two larger sizes too (137- and 165-inches), but as they say, if you have to ask how much those sizes cost ...
Audio / Video Buried deep inside the code for Apple's latest mobile software -- iOS 16 -- is a reference to "SiriRemote4" and "WirelessRemoteFirmware.4," according to MacRumors, which noted the discovery made by a contributor at AppleDB, an online database of Apple software and devices. Given that all previous Siri remotes (the two original touchpad editions, plus the newest silver model) have been accounted for through other references like "SiriRemote3," the conclusion is that Apple is readying a fourth generation of this device.
Why is the the reference in a beta of iOS, when the Apple TV runs tvOS? On the one hand, it could simply be that Apple needs to keep its mobile remote functionality (which is now embedded in an iPhone's Control Center) up to date with whatever features a new remote might offer. Or, it could be because Apple is planning to add a feature to the next Apple TV remote that would require (or at least benefit from) an iPhone. And that feature could be a detailed Find My function, courtesy of Apple's AirTag technology.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
