Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Snag this TCL soundbar and wireless subwoofer for $49 today By Briley Kenney Close TCL Deals come and go. We know that, you know that, and it’s really become a way of life these days. But some of the best deals always go live around the holiday shopping season, like Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Retailers have started early this year, with Walmart at the forefront.
 In fact, the superstore is doing things a little differently this time around. Everyone will be able to shop Walmart’s Black Friday Early Access deals starting November 8, but there’s a catch. You need to subscribe to Walmart+, the brand’s Prime-like service, which you.
 Regardless, when you do, you can grab this amazing TCL Alto bundle with a soundbar and wireless subwoofer for just $49. It’s normally $150, so you’re saving an incredible $100 on this early Black Friday deal.
Why you should buy the TCL Alto soundbar and wireless subwoofer deal combo Most comparable soundbars cost about $150 to $200 for just the soundbar. But this TCL soundbar and wireless subwoofer combo is just $50 today at Walmart, starting with the brand’s Early Access Black Friday deals. The subwoofer delivers pulse-pounding bass, so you can truly feel immersed in whatever you’re watching. Meanwhile, the soundbar delivers balanced sound with crystal clear audio and dialogue.
The soundbar is equipped with Bluetooth wireless connectivity, which means you can also connect external devices like your phone and favorite apps, such as Pandora, Spotify, and more. That allows you to play music wirelessly without all the hassle and confusion of wires and cables. It’s all super easy to set up, too, even when connecting to a TV, thanks to HDMI ARC, optical/AUX, and Bluetooth. Just plug in everything, or connect wirelessly, and go.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
A wall mounting kit is included, which complements the minimalist design well. This soundbar and subwoofer combo won’t take up much room in your living or theater rooms, and they’re definitely not eyesores, either. Sound modes allow you to swap between movie, music, and news settings, the latter being for primarily dialogue. All cables are also included, such as an AUX, optical, IR pass-through, and power cable.
For $50, you really can’t go wrong here, and it’s so much better than listening to the standard volume on your TV, even with a suitably audio-rich set. This soundbar and subwoofer combo takes it to the next level. Of course, you will need Walmart+ to take advantage of this Early Access deal. Don’t worry, if you’ve never had it before, you can sign up for a free 30-day trial , but if you have, you can grab it for 50% off right now — it’s.
 Whatever you decide to do, act fast because once this deal is sold out, that’s all she wrote.
Editors' Recommendations All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Beats Black Friday deals: Save on wireless headphones and earbuds The best QLED TV Black Friday deals on TCL, Samsung, Vizio, and more Deals Soundbars TCL Audio / Video No home theater is complete without the proper audio. Yeah, sure, you start with a fantastic, maybe even massive TV, currently on sale in Black Friday TV deals, and spring for the bells and whistles while you're at it. But nothing feels more immersive than audio that surrounds you, making it sound like jets are flying overhead, explosions are in your living room, and the music is permeating from somewhere high in the sky. You could spend some time scouring through the best Black Friday deals to see if you can find some audio and soundbar deals, but we'll do you one better. We've rounded up all of the best Black Friday soundbar deals right here in one place. That way, there's no need to jump around, unless you're listening to some House of Pain.
Best Vizio soundbar Black Friday deals VIZIO has a solid mix of affordable, mid-grade, and premium options. Here are all of the best VIZIO soundbar Black Friday deals we could find: Audio / Video From the PlayStation 5 and the new PlayStation Portal handheld to its immersive BRAVIA TVs, Sony is one of the best in the entertainment and consumer electronics business. So, it stands to reason that during the holiday shopping season, including Black Friday and Cyber Week, most people would be looking out for some of the best deals and discounts from the brand. We are too, and that's precisely why we've put together this guide that gathers up all the best Sony Black Friday deals in one, convenient place. Grab your remote and let's go.
One thing this guide doesn't address is Sony Camera Black Friday deals, so if you're looking for photography discounts, check that out too.
Best Sony TV Black Friday deals Audio / Video The Roku streaming platform is a popular choice for smart TVs, whether as a built-in operating system or as add-on hardware. While its main purpose is to grant you access to all of the most popular streaming services like Netflix, Disney+, and Amazon Prime Video, it also enables voice commands for functions such as controlling playback and searching for shows and movies to watch, while also offering free content for you to consume. If you're interested in Roku, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals that will let you jump into the platform, but you need to hurry with your purchase because we're not sure how much time is remaining on these offers.
Best Roku TV Black Friday deals While some of the best TV brands use Roku for the operating system of their products, Roku has rolled out its own line of TVs. With resolutions ranging from HD to 4K Ultra HD, you'll be able to enjoy your favorite shows and movies with bright colors and sharp details, with prices that start from budget displays and going all the way up to premium screens. These TVs are also excellent for playing video games and accessing cable channels, and our recommendation is to go for the largest model that you can afford -- but consult our guide on what size TV to buy first to make sure that you have enough space.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
