Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Get this Vizio soundbar and wireless subwoofer for $139 today By Jennifer Allen Close Vizio For inexpensive soundbar deals , look no further than Walmart which has a Vizio V-Series 2.1 Home Theater Soundbar and subwoofer down to $139. It usually costs $158, but it’s even cheaper with the $19 discount bringing it down to $139. If you’re looking for a relatively cheap way of improving the sound in your living room setup, this is a good option. We’re here to tell why or you can simply click the button below to go straight to making a purchase.
Why you should buy the Vizio V-Series 2.1 Home Theater Soundbar and subwoofer Vizio makes some of the best soundbars for anyone on a budget. While the Vizio V-Series 2.1 Home Theater Soundbar and subwoofer doesn’t make the cut on the list, it’s still worth strongly considering. It has a simple yet convenient 2.1 design with its two full-range speakers providing great sound and clarity for the price. It promises brilliant clarity alongside thunderous bass thanks to Dolby Audio support and DTS Digital Surround as well.
Besides the soundbar, the Vizio V-Series 2.1 Home Theater Soundbar and subwoofer also comes with a 4.5-inch wireless subwoofer that provides deep and accurate bass down to 50Hz. Optimized for 4K HDR content, it also has DTS Virtual:X technology to provide more immersive sound while there’s also DTS TruVolume HD which maintains a consistent volume level so you don’t have to worry about fluctuations between dialog and louder sounds.
At all times, you can adjust things just how you like with selectable EQ and tone, along with level and balance controls. The Vizio V-Series 2.1 Home Theater Soundbar and subwoofer is simple to set up with HDMI ARC and Bluetooth connectivity giving you plenty of options. With up to 96dB, it can get pretty loud when you want it to as well. Wrapping up the plentiful supply of options, the Vizio V-Series 2.1 Home Theater Soundbar and subwoofer also has voice assistant support associated with Alexa , Siri, and Google Assistant.
A surprisingly feature-packed soundbar for the price, the Vizio V-Series 2.1 Home Theater Soundbar and subwoofer is usually priced at $158. Right now, you can buy it from Walmart for $139 so you save $19 on the regular price. Even cheaper than before, this is quite the bargain for those who want better sound for less. Check it out now before the deal ends soon.
Editors' Recommendations Bose’s new Smart Ultra soundbar just had its price slashed Best Black Friday soundbar deals: Save on Samsung, Bose, and more All the Samsung Frame TV Black Friday deals happening now This Samsung surround sound system is somehow just $139 today 4 early Walmart Black Friday TV deals you should shop right now Deals Soundbars Audio / Video We're in a golden age of television in more ways than one. Prestige TV shows are getting as good, and as expensive to make, as big budget blockbusters. TV technology is also exploding, with new tech like QLED, OLED and QNED upping the game. One very unique TV option from Samsung is The Frame, a TV that's designed to look like a piece of art when you're not using it.
If you've had your eye on the unique The Frame TV from Samsung, now is a great time to buy it. The massive, 85-inch model is currently on sale for $2,749 at Walmart, a nice $750 discount off its usual price of $3,499. It's worth noting that this model of The Frame, the 85-inch LS03B, is normally $4,300 when you buy it straight from Samsung, so this is a discount stacked on top of a discount. The TV deals just keep stacking up. Grab it soon -- it could jump all the way back to its original price at any minute.
Audio / Video If you're on the hunt for the cheapest true wireless earbuds deals that you can buy right now, you should set your sights on the JVC Gumy Mini. From their original price of $30, they're down to just $15 from Amazon's Woot, for savings of $15. There may be a lot of time left before the offer expires, but we're not sure if stocks will last long because these affordable true wireless earbuds may be catching the attention of a lot of shoppers. If you want to take advantage of this bargain, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the JVC Gumy Mini true wireless earbuds You shouldn't expect the affordable JVC Gumy Mini to match up to the performance and features of the best wireless earbuds, but overall, they're pretty good for their cheap price. They may not have active noise cancellation, but they come with customizable tips so you can get a proper seal in your ears for listening to music or making calls. The wireless earbuds also offer an IPX4 rating for water resistance, so they won't be damaged by splashes of rain or sweat.
Audio / Video Going for a TV with an OLED panel is one of the better upgrades you can do for your home theater system, and while they do tend to be quite expensive, there are some great deals and budget-oriented TVs you can take advantage of. For example, while the LG A2 Series is the lower-end version of the excellent LG C2 series, it's still a great TV in its own right. In fact, you can get an OLED TV for even cheaper with this deal from Best Buy, which takes the usual $1,300 price tag of the LG A2 Series and slashes it down massively to just $550. That's a whopping $750 discount and puts a great OLED TV into a more achievable price range.
Why you should buy the LG 48-inch A2 Series OLED 4K TV Besides just having a great OLED panel from one of the few companies that make the panels, the LG A2 Series has a couple of more features that make it an excellent TV. For example, it supports HDR10, but, more importantly, if you're a sports fan, you also get HLG HDR. That means you can get the same contrast and image quality as you would when watching films or shows, at least if you watch through a broadcaster that supports and uses the HLG standard. That said, the base refresh rate is only 60Hz, so it won't work as well for action-packed content like a 120Hz refresh rate TV would. That said, it's not a deal breaker, and it's a surprisingly great refresh rate for console gaming, such as with the Xbox Series S or games on the Series X and PlayStation 5 that don't go over 60Hz, which is most of them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
