Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This popular Vizio soundbar bundle is $200 today By Aaron Mamiit Close Vizio Buying a new TV almost always requires an investment in soundbar deals because modern displays are too thin to fit premium speakers. Here’s a highly recommended offer from Best Buy — the Vizio V-Series 5.1 soundbar, which comes with a wireless subwoofer, for an affordable $200 instead of its original price of $250. We’re not sure how much time is remaining for you to be able to pocket the $50 in savings, but given the soundbar’s popularity, we expect stocks to get sold out soon. Buy it now if you don’t want to miss out.
Why you should buy the Vizio V-Series 5.1 soundbar bundle The numbers in the name of the Vizio V-Series 5.1 soundbar is explained by our guide on how to buy a soundbar.
 The “5” means it comes with five channels, namely the standard left and right channels, a center channel for clearer dialog, and two more channels for surround sound speakers. The three full-range speakers inside the soundbar create impressive sound, while the pair of low-profile surround speakers complete the immersive experience. Meanwhile, the “1” refers to the inclusion of a wireless subwoofer, which you can place anywhere in the room for your source of deep, booming bass.
The Vizio V-Series 5.1 soundbar is very easy to set up through an HDMI connection to your TV, and it can also play music from your mobile devices by linking up using Bluetooth.
 Once it’s up and running, you can enjoy 3D sound with DTS Virtual: X , and you can use voice commands to control your other smart home devices that are powered by Amazon’s Alexa , Google Assistant , or Apple’s Siri through the soundbar.
Give your home theater setup the audio boost that it needs with the Vizio V-Series 5.1 soundbar and its wireless subwoofer. It’s a tempting option from Best Buy because instead of $250, you’ll only have to pay $200 for this bundle following a $50 discount. We’re not sure how long this price will stick though, as stocks may already be running low. If you think the Vizio V-Series 5.1 soundbar is the perfect addition to your living room, what are you waiting for? Add it to your cart and check out as fast as you can.
Editors' Recommendations A massive Sonos Black Friday sale just started at Best Buy Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Bose’s new Smart Ultra soundbar just had its price slashed Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Deals Soundbars Audio / Video You may or may not be aware, but out of all the different types of TV technologies QLED vs OLED panels are totally different. QLED stands for Quantum Light-Emitting Diode which means it uses millions of nanoparticles or Quantum Dots to supercharge its color, delivering a vibrant, gorgeous picture. You can read our quantum dot explainer to learn how it all works in more detail. The bigger dilemma, at least right now, is that QLED panels tend to be very expensive, unless you can grab them at a hefty discount. You'll want to listen up, though, because at this very moment there are a ton of early Black Friday deals to shop. Many of those deals even offer eye-popping discounts on QLED TVs from some of the biggest brands on the market like Samsung, TCL, Vizio, and more. We've rounded up all the best, and it can't hurt to take a look. Since it's discount season, make sure to compare these prices with OLED TV Black Friday deals as well.
The best QLED TV Black Friday deal We tend to go with a more affordable option when picking out the "best" deals, and this pick is no exception, but don't let that fool you. TCL has made an excellent TV with a lot of great features, like the superior 4K quality resolution, mini-LED technology with uncompromising contrast and brightness, and hands-free voice controls accessible via Google Assistant. But it all hearkens back to that price, and man is that price juicy. Don't sleep on this one.
Audio / Video No home theater is complete without the proper audio. Yeah, sure, you start with a fantastic, maybe even massive TV, currently on sale in Black Friday TV deals, and spring for the bells and whistles while you're at it. But nothing feels more immersive than audio that surrounds you, making it sound like jets are flying overhead, explosions are in your living room, and the music is permeating from somewhere high in the sky. You could spend some time scouring through the best Black Friday deals to see if you can find some audio and soundbar deals, but we'll do you one better. We've rounded up all of the best Black Friday soundbar deals right here in one place. That way, there's no need to jump around, unless you're listening to some House of Pain.
Best Vizio soundbar Black Friday deals VIZIO has a solid mix of affordable, mid-grade, and premium options. Here are all of the best VIZIO soundbar Black Friday deals we could find: Audio / Video From the PlayStation 5 and the new PlayStation Portal handheld to its immersive BRAVIA TVs, Sony is one of the best in the entertainment and consumer electronics business. So, it stands to reason that during the holiday shopping season, including Black Friday and Cyber Week, most people would be looking out for some of the best deals and discounts from the brand. We are too, and that's precisely why we've put together this guide that gathers up all the best Sony Black Friday deals in one, convenient place. Grab your remote and let's go.
One thing this guide doesn't address is Sony Camera Black Friday deals, so if you're looking for photography discounts, check that out too.
Best Sony TV Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
