Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? You Asked: Dolby Atmos and EDID, minimalist soundbars, and HDMI 2.1 By Caleb Denison Close In this installation of You Asked, resident expert Caleb Denison will answer your questions on why you might not be able to get Dolby Atmos from your streaming device, what’s a great upgrade from the Sony Z9D, and what’s the best Dolby Atmos soundbar under $500? Dolby Atmos and EDID Time to upgrade? Dolby Atmos soundbars HDMI 2.1 ports aplenty Dolby Atmos and EDID Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Tim Looby wrote: In your Sonos Era 300 review , you mentioned Episode 7 of Star Wars , via Disney+. I just went to check out those scenes on my Arc/Sub/300s, [and] there’s no Atmos enabled on this movie. It’s listed as DDP+ 5.1. How did you get height channels working for any object placement, let alone precise ones? Am I missing something? First off, a lot of content on Disney+ is available in Dolby Atmos , including Star Wars Episode 7.
 If you’re not seeing it as an option, then it’s possible you may have some settings that need adjusting. But, another likely culprit is that one of the devices in your setup doesn’t support Dolby Atmos , possibly the TV or the streaming device you are using. Or, as I said, they aren’t set up to enable Atmos. Either way, Disney+ won’t show that you can get Atmos, nor will it deliver an Atmos signal, unless it knows your system can handle Dolby Atmos.
Is Dolby Atmos FlexConnect a potential soundbar killer? Sennheiser’s Ambeo Soundbar Mini is a pricey, bedroom-sized Dolby Atmos speaker You Asked: best TVs for bright rooms, when to use eARC, and more How does it know? Well, this is a great time to talk about EDID. EDID stands for extended display identification data. It’s a little informational message that’s embedded in the signal that passes from one HDMI device to another. The EDID is how your Xbox Series X , for example, knows whether your TV can do Dolby Vision , 4K 120, etc. The Xbox gets a message from the TV that tells the Xbox exactly what the TV can — and by default, what it can’t — do.
For example: If you have an older or budget-model streaming stick that doesn’t support Dolby Atmos , Disney+ knows that, whether that information comes from the streaming stick to the streaming stick’s Disney+ app, or as a message from the streaming stick to the TV’s Disney+ app.
The trick is to make sure that all the components in your chain support Dolby Atmos.
 If your TV can’t pass it along, or your AV receiver or soundbar doesn’t support it, Disney + (as well as many other apps) will know, and it won’t bother trying to send that Dolby Atmos signal. Thus, you won’t see it as available on the title screen when you pull up a show.
Time to upgrade? Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Joe wrote: I was lucky enough to get two Sony Z9Ds. Should I upgrade to a new TV such as the new Sony 77-inch QD-OLED, or a backlight master drive LCD, maybe a 95-series or Z9K? I don’t think 8K is really necessary, but if the price is right, I would upgrade.
The Sony Z9D was and is a great TV. In some key ways, it still outperforms many midlevel TVs you can buy today.
But you’re looking to upgrade, a QD-OLED or X95L would certainly be an upgrade. While the Z9D was advanced for its time, even its successor, the Z9F, was a notable upgrade. Today’s X95L, X93L, or A80L would look significantly better for motion, contrast, and color. Also, the built-in smart TV system and apps that run on it will all run much better. I mean, it’s been seven years, I understand if you want to upgrade. When great TV performance is important to you, I think waiting five years, let alone six or seven, is definitely going to give you justifiable upgrade-itis. Not everyone can afford to upgrade that often, but if you can, go for it. Anyway, moving to a modern OLED is going to be a huge upgrade, and upgrading to the X95L will also yield some very big improvements in picture quality. You’re not looking at making a small step forward, in my opinion. The difference will be something everyone in the house will notice. Hope that helps! Dolby Atmos soundbars Polk David Rodriguez wrote: I recently purchased a TCL QM8 75-inch. Now I would like a minimalist soundbar to go with the picture. I’d rather have one soundbar and a subwoofer over rear speakers. Looking for an Atmos soundbar that will fit under my QM8 (currently on its stand). Budget ideally under $500. Please let me know what you suggest.
Well, it’s going to be tough to come up with one soundbar that satisfies all of those requirements. The best Atmos soundbar under $500 for Atmos effects is probably the Bose Smart Soundbar 600 , but it doesn’t come with a subwoofer. The Yamaha YAS-209 and Klipsch Cinema 400 are both great-sounding soundbar/subwoofer combos that meet your budget, but neither does Atmos.
I’m going to recommend the Polk Signa S4.
 It’s pretty slim, so I think it is going to fit under your QM8, it does Atmos pretty well, has solid audio fidelity, and comes with a wireless subwoofer, but no surround speakers. It’s light on features, but you did want minimalist, so that will probably be fine. It’s super plug-and-play. All in all, I think that’s your best pick. And as a bonus, it comes in well under $500. You could add a subwoofer to the Bose 600 and do even better, but that would blow your budget.
HDMI 2.1 ports aplenty Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Aaron Smith asked: I’m looking to upgrade my TV, but I’m frustrated with the limited number of HDMI 2.1 sockets on Panasonic and Sony TVs. When I finally upgrade my TV, I will be connecting my PC to one of the HDMI 2.1 inputs and a 4K Blu-ray player to the other.
If I were to connect the Blu-ray player to the TV through a soundbar, would that have any negative effect on the viewing experience? Or is it better to connect the player directly to the TV? I’m so happy to address this question because I’m hoping we can pump the brakes on the mostly unnecessary frustration and even outrage I’m seeing around a TV not having four full-bandwidth HDMI 2.1 ports.
Here is a perfect example. Aaron seems frustrated that both his HDMI 2.1 ports will be occupied when he plugs in his PC and 4K Blu-ray player. In this case, the frustration is probably unnecessary. Why? Because your 4K Blu-ray player benefits in no way whatsoever from HDMI 2.1.
 Your 4K Blu-ray player can’t even scratch the surface of the 18 Gbps bandwidth of HDMI 2.0, let alone the 48 Gbps of HDMI 2.1.
 Everything a 4K Blu-ray can offer — 4K resolution, high chroma subsampling, HDR , Dolby Vision , uncompressed Dolby or DTS audio — it’s all just fine delivered through any of your HDMI ports.
So, you could connect your PC and a game console to your HDMI 2.1 ports, and plug your 4K Blu-ray to any of the remaining ports and be just fine. Unless you are going to run PC, Xbox Series X , AND PlayStation 5 , all on the same TV, you don’t need more than two.
But, if you wanted to connect your 4K Blu-ray player to a soundbar, it shouldn’t have any negative effects on the fidelity of the video. If you wanted the soundbar to act as an HDMI 2.1 input switch, though — well, good luck finding one that offers more than one HDMI input that’s HDMI 2.1 compliant. Those are rare beasts, indeed.
Editors' Recommendations You Asked: Soundbars vs. receivers, TVs with no speakers, and car stereos Bose’s new flagship Dolby Atmos soundbar brings AI smarts to the dialogue problem Dolby Atmos FlexConnect could eliminate home theater soundbars and HDMI cables Samsung adds HW-Q900C to its lineup of 2023 Dolby Atmos soundbars Nakamichi’s wild Dragon 11.4.6 Dolby Atmos soundbar goes up for preorder this week Features Soundbars Speakers You Asked Audio / Video JBL has taken the wraps off its most powerful Dolby Atmos soundbar to date at CES 2023. The Bar 1300X follows the same design principles as the company's previous top-of-the-line Bar series soundbars, including the line's signature detachable, fully wireless surround speaker modules, and a wireless subwoofer. But the Bar 1300X brings even more sound and power to your TV room, with an 11.1.4-channel configuration and a massive 1,170 watts of total power. It will be available on February 19, 2023, for $1,700.
The JBL Bar 1300X boasts both Dolby Atmos and DTS:X compatibility, but what sets it apart from JBL's other Atmos/DTS:X soundbars is its six dedicated up-firing drivers, which will presumably do a better job of delivering the height channel effects that these 3D surround sound formats are known for. It also has the largest wireless subwoofer in the Bar range, with a 12-inch driver.
Audio / Video Polk Audio has two new Dolby Atmos soundbars models that are aimed squarely at folks who might be considering the excellent $899 Sonos Arc. The MagniFi Max AX ($799) and MagniFi Max AX SR ($899) are both equipped with wireless subwoofers and 11-speaker arrays, including dedicated up-firing drivers, but the MagniFi Max AX SR provides an extra level of surround sound immersion by including a set of wireless surround speakers. Both models can also work with DTS:X and will be available in October from polkaudio.com and select retailers.
Polk Audio says that the key to the MagniFi Max AX's performance, beyond all of those drivers, is the company's Stereo Dimensional Array (SDA) technology. Now in its fourth generation, Polk claims that SDA delivers an ultra-wide soundstage by eliminating interaural crosstalk. My experience with Polk's previous SDA-equipped models like the MagniFi Mini AX suggests that's not just marketing-speak -- they do provide a very convincing wide sound field.
MagniFi Max AX Audio / Video Sony has launched the HT-A3000, its newest Dolby Atmos/DTS-X soundbar in the A-Series, which currently includes the $1,000 HT-A5000, $1,400 HT-A7000, and $1,800 HT-A9. At just $700, that makes the 3.1-channel HT-A3000 the most affordable option in the range. It's available for pre-sale starting August 30.
The HT-A3000 shares many features with its pricier siblings, including AirPlay, Chromecast, and compatibility with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa smart speakers, plus the ability to connect to Sony's Bravia XR series smart TVs, which can be used as an extended center channel for more immersive sound and more realistic dialogue.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
