Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features You Asked: Soundbars vs. receivers, TVs with no speakers, and car stereos By Caleb Denison Close In this installment of You Asked, our series that answers the Digital Trends community’s most frequently asked AV questions, we’ll talk about soundbars versus an AV receiver and speakers, whether I will ever review laser TVs/UST projectors, and why TVs can’t just come without speakers.
Soundbars vs. receivers/speakers WiSA setups and laser TVs Speakerless TVs HDMI bandwidth Reviewing midrange TVs Car stereo reviews? Soundbars vs. receivers/speakers We’ll start with a question I’ve seen asked a lot, especially in the past couple of years.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends @MarkoPosavecwrites: Soundbar versus AV Receiver: Given that nowadays there are so many soundbar options, some of which offer virtual surround sound while others go as far as to feature dedicated satellite channels, at what point do you draw the line and opt for a true AV receiver? What would be the pros and cons of either solution? You Asked: Dolby Atmos and EDID, minimalist soundbars, and HDMI 2.1 You Asked: Sonos setups, 5,000 nits, and dumb TVs You Asked: Why TVs with same model numbers have different specs That’s a big question that deserves a big answer, so I will be dedicating a full article to this down the road. But for now, here’s my short answer: I know I’m stating the obvious that when it comes to home entertainment, everyone’s needs and wants are different. But I think there are always three overarching considerations at play: cost, convenience, and practicality.
An AV receiver and speakers can offer some advantages that I’ll get into shortly. But they tend to pose challenges in all of those departments —- cost, convenience, and practicality. They can be tricky to set up for folks who don’t have much experience with them, they often involve a lot of wires and cables, and they tend to be bulkier. And from a practical standpoint, maybe they take up too much space, or someone else in the home is just going to veto any attempt at putting a bunch of speakers and wires around a room.
My point is, sometimes you just can’t do a receiver and speakers. That’s where soundbar systems come in. The soundbar tends to be the hub, audio signals are delivered wirelessly to surrounds and subs, amplification is built in at the speaker level, and they are just generally easier to deal with, and easier to get past the decor deputy in your home.
But that convenience and practicality offered by a soundbar-based system often come at a cost — that is, more of the money you’re spending goes into the convenience and practicality aspects than it does the quality of the components. I would say that if the convenience and practicality of the audio system are not so much a concern, you’re almost always going to be able to build a better-sounding and more capable system out of an AV receiver and speakers. That is, unless, you’re using a really inexpensive receiver and really inexpensive speakers. In those cases, you may be paying less than you would for a soundbar system that may cost more, but also sounds better. The thing is, there isn’t a clear intersection. I’d have to have specific examples of a soundbar system, and an AV receiver and speakers, to say which one might sound and/or function better than the other.
WiSA setups and laser TVs Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Next, @sorenvitarelli had a couple of questions. First, Is a WiSA speaker setup a good alternative to wired speakers with a receiver? It can be. It depends on the quality of the WiSA speakers. I’d say that if the speaker quality were equal between the two, which you could find with Klipsch, for example, then it would take a very expensive set of electronics to best the WiSA system.
Are you ever going to review “ laser TVs ”/UST projectors? I have before, and I will be doing more of them going forward. Hisense has one on the way, as a matter of fact.
Speakerless TVs Hisense U8K Zeke Jones / Digital Trends @Rifumo asks: Why won’t TV manufacturers give us the option to buy TVs without speakers? Same TV, just without speakers for those of us who prefer investing in audio systems? Well, the answer to that one is pretty simple. They won’t do it because it is complicated and it costs a lot of money. Look, I know it seems like a simple thing to do, right? Just leave out the speakers and the amplifier, yes? But it isn’t that simple. If they were to do this, they would have to create a new SKU for however many models they chose to offer without speakers — which in and of itself is a difficult decision to make. But adding new SKUs? That comes with all kinds of complications and expenses. Also, it couldn’t be called a TV anymore. It would have to be called a monitor because a TV has to have speakers. Just like a TV has to have a tuner, otherwise, you can’t call it a TV. (Just ask Vizio.) HDMI bandwidth Zeke Jones / Digital Trends @devendrasoni8572 has a trio of questions: Is there any chance that 4K 240hz or 8K 120hz TVs are coming in the near future? There’s always a chance, but I’d say that chance is slim to none unless you count four to five years as being in the near future. And by the way, I’m doubtful of that because — next question … Is HDMI with more speed (like 96 gbps) or something like this coming or is there any news about it? I have not heard anything about doubling the available bandwidth of the current HDMI spec, and considering how long it took us to get from 18 gigabits per second to 48 gigabits per second, I’m not optimistic it would be any time soon. I’d love to be proven wrong, though. Also, I think it would be better to ditch cables and go wireless if we want to add bandwidth. That seems like the right thing to do. And if we did that, I’m not sure how much HDMI would have to do with it. Anyway, current bandwidth constrictions are why I don’t think we’ll see 8K 120 or 4K 240.
Is there any native 10-bit TV out there or do all come as 8-bit with FRC? Yes, there are many TVs with Native 10-bit panels. Too many to mention. But, like, going back a few years, the LG CX and C1 had native 10-bit panels – they did not use 8-bit + FRC.
Reviewing midrange TVs TCL Q7 Chris Hagan / Digital Trends @BR7Fan71 asks: Why do you guys neglect the midrange TVs? I’d like to see the A80L and the C3. I believe that these need just as much attention as the flagships because of the price difference.
The simple answer is that we don’t neglect midrange TVs. Look back and you’ll see I always review the A80 series from Sony and the C series from LG. I always have. Also, I don’t consider those midrange TVs. I consider The TCL Q7 or Hisense U7K midrange TVs. But the point is, I don’t neglect them.
Now, if you had asked why don’t I prioritize them? Well, there are a number of different reasons why I might review the LG G3 before the LG C3, for example. One is because the majority of viewers I’ve asked have either directly or indirectly voted for me to do the fancier TV first. I’ve asked directly, and been told by more people to do the G series first.
With all that said, I cannot believe that it has taken me this long to get a C3. I’m actually very frustrated about that. Same with the A80L. I expect both to be in within two weeks, possibly less. So those are coming.
Car stereo reviews? Digital Trends @smig95 asks: Have you ever thought of reviewing car stereo systems? I would be curious to have your opinion on an array of manufacturer offerings.
I actually have done a few Pioneer systems, though those were mostly CarPlay- and Android Auto-inspired. But … I love car audio.
I love it! I don’t know how many I could do due to time constraints, but I would love it if some brands reached out. Also, I’d be down to test the fancy stock systems in some nice cars – those made with Levinson, or B&W, or Focal speakers, or McIntosh amps. Did you all see the new Lotus EV? It’s got some amazing-looking KEF speakers in it — check out the MKBHD’s Auto Focus channel to see more of those. I was actually surprised Marques hadn’t heard of KEF before. I’d be happy to offer my commentary.
Editors' Recommendations You Asked 10: picture calibration, best budget buys, and premium small screens You Asked: streaming inequality, Dragon showdown, and holy grail TVs You Asked: Why we don’t buy the TVs we review You Asked: best TVs for bright rooms, when to use eARC, and more Optoma’s CinemaX 4K laser projectors now have faster response times for gamers Features Soundbars You Asked Audio / Video LG's new flagship ultra-short-throw (UST) 4K laser projector, the CineBeam HU915QE, sets some impressive new benchmarks, with 3,700 lumens of claimed brightness, and the ability to be placed as close as 2.2 inches away from a wall. At that distance, it can create a 90-inch image, but if you move it just a little farther away, to a distance of 7.2 inches, that image size can increase to a massive 120 inches. We're still waiting to hear how much LG wants for the HU915QE, but the company says it will be available to order before the end of June 2022.
UST projectors are the perfect solution for those who crave super-large image sizes for their movies, sports, and games, and who don't want to contend with a projector in the middle of their room or suspended from their ceiling. LG is no stranger to laser-driven UST projectors and has produced several models over the past few years. The HU915QE is the second and most advanced LG UST projector to be announced in 2022 -- it follows the the previously released CineBeam HU715Q, which only delivers 2,500 lumens.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
