Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Anker Soundcore Motion X600 review: a mini metal boombox By Simon Cohen Close $200.00 Sleek design Premium materials Waterproof and buoyant Expansive soundstage Tons of EQ control Small battery capacity for its size Won't charge devices Not robust enough for impacts The fine folks over at Anker Soundcore would probably like me to emphasize that the company’s new portable Bluetooth speaker , the $200 Motion X600 — which you can buy starting May 6 — has an up-firing full-range driver built into the top in order to give it a kind of spatial audio sound — even when you’re listening to plain-ol’ stereo.
So fine, I’ll do that. Later.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends What I want to focus on first, however, is how good-looking this thing is. With the exception of a rubber membrane that covers the angled top surface (taking a break around that fancy extra driver), the entire speaker looks like it’s constructed from metal. And some of it is: the handle is made of aluminum, and the entire front grille is formed from stainless steel. The back panel is plastic, but it doesn’t matter because all of the parts share the same smooth, anodized aluminum-look finish with rounded edges that blend seamlessly into one another. If a MacBook Air and an 80s-era mini ghetto blaster spent one glorious night together, the Motion X600 would be their offspring.
Anker Soundcore’s Motion X500 packs spatial audio into a more portable package Soundcore’s new Motion speakers are tough little portables with hi-res sound The best Bluetooth speakers for 2023: Marshall, Sonos, JBL, and more And just like the MacBook Air, it comes in multiple colors: Polar Gray (seen here), Aurora Green, and Lunar Blue.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The one downside to such an elegant package is that the X600 won’t prove as impact-resistant as many of its portable competitors. The metal and aluminum parts will scratch and dent if you’re not careful. Thankfully, a set of grippy rubber feet will keep it from most inadvertent movements.
Despite being very slender — it’s only 3.25 inches deep — all of that metal (and the internal battery) give the speaker some serious heft. It weighs in at 4.2 pounds, which gives it a pleasingly solid, high-quality feel. You might think that the combination of its weight and nearly all-metal construction would make the X600 a bad candidate for poolside entertainment, but, amazingly, it’s IPX7-rated for water resistance and actually floats (though upside-down, so don’t expect to hear much of your tunes beyond the gurgly thump of the bass).
Did I try submerging it? Yes, I did. In a sink. Hey, it’s still winter here in Canada — don’t judge.
The X600 played the entire time and shrugged off the water like a champ. Keep in mind that its IPX rating covers water immersion, but it doesn’t offer any dust protection. So pools yes, beaches no.
The controls are all protected by the rubber membrane, and Soundcore keeps things simple: Power, Bluetooth pairing, play/pause (which also gives you track skipping), volume up/down, and two sound mode buttons for “BassUp” (a bass boost) and spatial sound. With white printing on a dark background, they’re easy to see in most lighting conditions, but they’re also backlit when the speaker is turned on — a really nice touch that you don’t see on many portables. It takes some pressure to make them click, though that seems like a reasonable tradeoff for a waterproof speaker. There is a slight delay when using playback controls — a press of the play/pause button can take up to 2.5 seconds to respond — which is a little annoying, but not a deal-breaker.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Around the back you’ll find a protected set of ports — one for charging (USB-C), and one for external analog audio sources (3.5mm). Soundcore includes a USB-A-to-C cable for charging — though not an actual charger — and a 3.5mm cable.
Inside that sleek shell is a series of five drivers. There’s one you can see (the top-firing, full-range “sky” driver as Soundcore refers to it) and four you can’t: two tweeters and two woofers behind the main grille. These are amplified by three discrete amps. Each stereo channel (a tweeter and a woofer) is powered by a 20-watt amp and a single 10-watt amp powers the sky driver, for a total of 50 watts. That might not be enough to energize a large backyard’s worth of party-goers, but it still gets impressively loud for its size, with almost no distortion. Indoors, in a kitchen or a living room, you won’t need anything else.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sound-wise, the Motion X600 can be a bit of an unruly beast. Between the out-of-the-box tuning, the bass boost feature, the spatial mode, and the enormous amount of EQ range in Soundcore’s app, this Bluetooth speaker can go from a bit tinny and harsh to satisfyingly resonant and full-frequency. It all depends on how you use it.
In standard stereo mode, and without the bass boost enabled (which is how the speaker ships), the X600 can be decidedly underwhelming. All of the emphasis is seemingly shunted to the highs, the bass feels empty and midranges are gasping for air. The top-firing driver, which is supposedly a full-range unit, sounds strangled, with no weight at all. The four EQ presets in the Soundcore app (signature, voice, treble boost, and balanced) only enable mild tweaks, and I confess to being very confused by the shape of the so-called balanced preset — it doesn’t look very balanced to me.
Perhaps Soundcore has done this intentionally so that you get a “wow” moment when you turn on bass boost and spatial mode. In an instant, the X600 leaps to life in dramatic fashion, going from lamb to lion. Enabling these two features improves virtually every aspect, from dynamic range to the presence of those previously missing midranges, to the soundstage, which expands considerably. The previously annoyingly sharp highs are much better balanced because the top driver is allowed to reproduce its full frequency range.
Calling it “spatial” might be a bit of an overstatement. It isn’t compatible with spatial audio formats like Dolby Atmos Music , and it does not sound as truly 3D as a Dolby Atmos-compatible speaker like the Amazon Echo Studio , Apple HomePod , or Sonos Era 300 — but it is more immersive than a standard stereo portable.
If you place it a few feet away and sit more or less centered, you can hear the effect that Soundcore’s extra processing creates, with song elements that indeed sound like they’re coming from well outside of the speaker’s small footprint. Once I switched back and forth a few times to remind myself of the difference, I left the X600 with both features enabled and never looked back.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If you find that these modes overemphasize some frequencies and you don’t mind messing around with custom EQ settings, the highly adjustable, nine-point equalizer in the app can be adjusted a whopping ±8 dB across a huge array of selectable frequencies from 48Hz to 20kHz. Honestly, it’s overkill for a speaker like the X600, but it does give you an enormous amount of control.
Want an even bigger sound? You can take two Motion X600 speakers and create a stereo pair via Bluetooth.
A quick aside on some of the labels you may see Soundcore using on both the X600 itself and on its Amazon product page. My review unit came with a badge on the left side that says “Lossless Sound,” but this is not a lossless wireless speaker.
Lossless refers to two things: a song that has been digitally encoded in a way that no information from the original recording was lost, and, streaming Bluetooth codecs that make the same promise when you’re playing wirelessly from a phone. For the X600, the first doesn’t apply — it doesn’t actually encode or play lossless digital audio directly, and the second doesn’t apply either. It is indeed a certified wireless hi-res audio speaker, thanks to its support of the LDAC Bluetooth codec (currently only available on Android handsets), but LDAC is still a lossy — not a lossless codec.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Does any of that matter? Probably not. In this case, it simply means the X600 won’t sacrifice as much quality over a Bluetooth connection as speakers that only support lesser codecs, like SBC and AAC. Still, LDAC is itself a bit of an unruly beast, and unless the speaker and your phone are in very close proximity (like three feet or less), you likely won’t get the full benefit of its 24-bit/96kHz capability. And if you’re only streaming Spotify? You won’t notice at all.
Soundcore says the Motion X600 will give you about 12 hours of play on a single charge, but keep in mind that’s based on playing at about a 50% volume level, with spatial and bass boost options turned off. Play louder and with those features enabled and that number will drop precipitously — down to as low as five hours. For a portable Bluetooth speaker of this size, that’s very much on the low side of things. You’ll find several models that can get closer to 20 hours, including the Marshall Emberton II , Marshall Middleton , and Sony SRS-XG300.
The Soundcore Motion X600 might not be packed with features like speakerphone capabilities, power bank device charging, or a party mode for linking multiple speakers, but its sleek, mostly-metal design makes it an unusually attractive option, while its integrated handle and excellent water protection provide exactly the kind of utility you need from a portable speaker. Once you dial in the sound, it’s an impressive little boombox.
Editors' Recommendations B&O’s latest speaker is a love letter to aluminum Tivoli Audio reimagines its SongBook as two retro-style boomboxes Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update Anker Soundcore says its new wireless buds will block up to 98% of external noise B&O’s picnic basket speaker pumps out 280 watts of power while it charges your phone Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Audio / Video Looking for a smart speaker that doesn't look like a smart speaker? Look no further than Pantheone Audio's Obsidian. The Australian company is no stranger to creating speakers that double as works of art. Its debut product, the $2,750 Pantheone I would look at home in a gallery, and the $1,399 Obsidian makes a similar statement, only on a smaller, portable scale.
For its smarts, the Obsidian (which comes in black or white) leans on Amazon Alexa, but it's also a well-featured wireless multiroom speaker that can connect via Wi-Fi, AirPlay 2, or Bluetooth, plus it has a 3.5mm analog audio input for sources like turntables. In addition to an on/off switch, there are illuminated front touch controls for Alexa, playback, and volume.
Audio / Video The best Bluetooth speakers come in all shapes and sizes and are suited for various listening preferences, from on-the-go pool parties to stay-at-home listening sessions. Some are big and some are incredibly tiny, and the same can be said for their prices, but if you're here, you're in the market for a Bluetooth speaker under $100 that sounds good, but won't empty your wallet.
Luckily, there are tons of choices out there, so we've put together a list of some of the speakers we think are the best in this price range. When choosing, we looked at things like battery life, size, ruggedness, water and dust resistance (or waterproofing), sound quality, bass, volume, and other fun things like voice assistants or an ability to pair them with other speakers for bigger sound.
Audio / Video Ikea is well known for selling attractively designed products at reasonable prices, but its latest Bluetooth speaker is priced so low that even Amazon might not be able to compete. The Vappeby waterproof portable Bluetooth speaker, as its name suggests, is tiny, waterproof, and surprisingly cheap at $15.
The tiny, silicone-wrapped speaker measures only three inches square and is just two inches thick. For reference, that's about as wide as an iPhone 14 in portrait mode. It comes with its own lanyard cord, which you could use to hang the Vappeby in a shower as Ikea shows in its photos, or you could simply use it as a wrist strap. It's available in three colors: yellow, black, or red, and if you buy two of them, they can be used as a stereo pair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
