Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Fluance Ai81 Elite speaker review: Power from the towers By Michael Bizzaco Close $499.99 Incredible soundstaging Plenty of volume Sleek and modern design A range of connection options Reasonably priced No passive wiring option Tower design may be too big for some When we think of powered speakers, our minds tend to lean toward more compact bookshelf speakers such as the superb KEF LX II or the renowned Klipsch The Fives.
 But as the complexity of our home theater setups increases, so has the demand for bigger, more powerful tower speakers with a wide range of connectivity options — from optical to line RCA to Bluetooth.
Sleek design and aesthetics Connectivity Quick setup and simple controls How do they sound? Built for gamers and cinephiles, too Price and warranty The bottom line While we are seeing more of these powered tower speakers entering our living rooms, many of them are in a price range that’s unobtainable.
 This is why I was pleased to get the opportunity to review the Fluance Ai81 Elite Powered Floorstanding Tower Speakers , a reasonably priced ($500) beast of a pair of floorstanders with a multitude of connection options and serious sound driven by their own 150-watt amplifier that are suitable for everything from daily music listening to all your home theater viewing.
The best speakers for 2023: great hi-fi options for music and more B&O’s picnic basket speaker pumps out 280 watts of power while it charges your phone Definitive Technology’s new speakers bring the boom from another Dymension We’ve been reviewing Fluance speakers for years ( their turntables are pretty great, too ), but how do these powered towers stand up? Let’s find out.
Sleek design and aesthetics The Fluance Ai81 Elites are available in four finishes — black ash, white walnut, lucky bamboo, and natural walnut –with no price variance between the them. In-box accessories include a power lead, an eight-foot run of speaker wire, a remote, and manuals.
The Ai81 deliver a robust, crystal-clear sonic profile that manages to pull out new details from albums we’ve heard a million times over.
My test speakers were black ash, which blands well with my general living room decor. But no matter which cabinet choice you opt for, the one-inch neodymium tweeter and 6.5-inch glass fiber drivers are always going to be black. These being floorstanding speakers, the ash shell combined with the black drivers may look a bit too sinister for some listening spaces, and there’s currently no magnetized grille option. I personally didn’t mind the aesthetic.
Dimensionally, the Fluance Ai81 are 37.8-inches tall, 8.50-inches wide, and 10.24-inches deep from front to back. The MDF cabinetry has a nice grainy finish, and the wood itself doesn’t feel cheap in any way.
Connectivity All connections are located on the back of the right speaker. Here you’ll find two sets of RCA line inputs for connecting things like a turntable (a phono preamp is required, however), receiver, TV audio out, or even a smartphone with the right adapter cable. There’s also a digital optical input for running sound from TVs, receivers and more, as well as a subwoofer output , speaker wire terminals (the output set), and an AC power port. There’s also a master on/off switch for the system, as well as a volume adjustment dial located up top, which doubles as an input selector when you push the knob in.
Fluance Around front, a single LED indicator is your guide for determining if the speakers are on or off and what input you’re set to. Volume, treble, and bass adjustments will make the LED flash, with a red blink meaning you’ve hit the maximum level for each adjustment.
Over on the left speaker, the only connections to speak of are the speaker wire terminals (the input set).
Quick setup and simple controls The Fluance Ai81 may appear like a normal pair of passive tower hi-fi speakers that you would connect with speaker wire to an amp or receiver. And that’s how I first attempted to wire them. Yes, the speaker terminals on both the left and right channels fooled me into thinking I could connect the Ai81 to my A/V receiver , but that’s not the case here. Similar to most powered speaker sets, like desktop computer speakers even, the terminals on the back of each speaker are to be connected by the included speaker wire. That’s it.
Miles Davis’ Blue In Green sounds simply breathtaking on the Ai81s, making me feel like I was enjoying a late-night martini on a quiet October night in the city.
But rest assured, the Fluance Ai81’s are far from passive. Powered by a 150-watt Class D amplifier, it was go time once we flipped the power switch. But why powered speakers, you might ask? The benefit of powered speakers over passive speakers is the amplifier is built in, meaning you can connect a wide range of home theater components directly into them, making them more or less an all-in-one home theater setup. Passive speakers require amplification from an external amplifier or AV receiver.
The easiest first test was to pair my smartphone to the speakers, a process which took no time at all. After connecting, you’ll hear a kind of thumping sound, letting you know the handshake is complete. And other than switching inputs (which you can do with the remote or right-channel volume knob), the only other adjustments you’ll need to worry about are adding or removing treble and bass to your liking.
On the remote, there are a few buttons for play/pause and track skipping if you don’t want to handle these duties with your Bluetooth-connected device, as well as an LED adjusterthat allows you to tone down the brightness of the right speaker’s front indicator.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Admittedly, the remote feels a little cheap, and while it would have been nice to see some kind of on-screen readout for the input we had the speakers set to (a range of LED colors represent the different sources), the simplicity of the single light is hard to argue with.
How do they sound? The Fluance Ai81 deliver a robust, crystal-clear sonic profile that manages to pull out new details from albums and tracks I’ve heard a million times over. And with Bluetooth 5 streaming (using the AAC codec) being the go-to source for most potential Ai81 listeners, I did all of my music demoing with an iPhone 12 wirelessly sending Apple Music content to the speakers.
Porcupine Tree’s latest release, CLOSURE/CONTINUATION , is a multilayered progressive rock opus that has never sounded so lush. Shimmering, melancholic guitar and vocals are front and center on tracks like Of The New Day and Chimera’s Wreck , with the speakers steeping us in a perfect mixture of clean treble and smooth midrange. When drums, bass, and Telecaster thrash kick in during the latter halves of both songs, the Ai81 embrace the instrumental punch.
Fluance The album’s steady rocker, Herd Culling , opens with a mishmash of digital noise and panned synths, a quiet lead-in that the Fluance Ai81 are patient in articulating, slowly opening up the soundstage to gain way for the crunchy-clean, main guitar riff. When frontman Steven Wilson screams “liar,” the band dials up the adrenaline, breaking into a head-basher of a chorus that gains and soars across all frequencies.
For something completely different, Miles Davis’ Blue In Green sounds simply breathtaking on the Ai81s, making me feel like I was enjoying a late-night martini on a quiet October night in the city, watching the boys play their jazzy hearts out. Davis and John Coltrane are the real standouts here, with the trumpeter and bandleader receiving a proper center-stage accentuation. Sincerely, whenever Davis breaks into a melodic line or two, you can imagine seeing a spotlight shine down on him. And the same goes for Coltrane’s tenor sax, although the staging shifts a hair to the left, sharing a corner with pianist Bill Evans’ sparse, tinkling chords.
Simply put, the Ai81 brought an all-new life to this jazz standard, and frankly, the number sounded so sugary-sweet, I may have shed a tear or two (it’s the trumpet, it gets to me).
To combat our tears, and to further stretch the Ai81s to their limits, I took a dive into the world of unforgiving thrash-metal. Let’s just say that mid-’80s Metallica has never sounded this ruthless. Our album of reference: Master of Puppets.
 The Ai81s captured all of the Ennio Morricone-flavored goodness of Battery ‘s opening acoustic guitars, before plunging headfirst into the track’s galloping guitars, bass, and drums, with a little extra high-end for Kirk Hammett’s ripper of a guitar solo.
Welcome Home (Sanitarium) is the softer track off this album, and the Ai81 do an excellent job of making these quieter passages extra-special. James Hetfield’s main, chorus-laden guitar sounds isolated, sorrowful, and a bit springy, too, a tone amicably juxtaposed against Hammett’s soaring pre-verse leads. It’s guitar double-duty done right, and the Ai81 defiantly balance both six-string styles.
Built for gamers and cinephiles, too I also put the digital optical input to good use, connecting my TCL 6-Series TV to the Ai81 and putting a few different A/V sources to the test. First up was a little PS4 action with Crash Bandicoot 4 at the helm. I know, it’s a kid’s game, but have you tried getting 100% completion on this? It’s impossible! But the more important reason I chose this title was because of its dynamic sound mix, an audio paradise that the Ai81 drove home.
Colorful, cartoonish sound effects received little to no compromise, with every crate-break and head-stomped enemy getting equal attention. And let’s not forget the game’s propulsive and zany background music — each track received the kind of love delivered in our above musical samplings.
We also channeled our inner cinephile, with There Will Be Blood as our Blu-ray of choice. Quiet, dialogue-driven moments were on-point, with Daniel Day Lewis’ infamous “milkshake” speech sounding all the more guttural, focused, and haunting — especially when you factor in the Ai81’s acoustic focus on the booming, basement bowling alley.
And the oil derrick explosion scene! The Ai81 rumbled from start to finish, capturing all of the environmental chaos. It’s a heart-thumping sequence rendered all the more intense by composer Jonny Greenwood’s kinetic Bodysong played against the worksite devastation.
Price and warranty Right now, you can purchase the Fluance Ai81 Powered Floorstanding Tower Speakers for $500. You’ll get lifetime customer support for the speakers, along with a two-year manufacturer’s warranty.
The bottom line As far as Bluetooth-friendly powered floorstanders go, you’ll be hard-pressed to find a rival to the Ai81 for the price. They may be on the big side, but if you’ve got the room to spare and are looking for a set of versatile powered speakers that can take just about any input (save for HDMI) and give it some impressive power and clear, defined sound, then stop shopping now. And if size is the limiting factor, Fluance also makes two bookshelf versions of the Ai design.
Are there alternatives? There always are. In terms of powered bookshelf systems that we’ve actually tested, the SVS Prime Wireless are an awesome pair of speakers with just as many connectivity options, along with a comparable price. Of course, there are more expensive brands that go way above and beyond, such as KEF’s incredible lineup of powered stereo speakers.
 But if you can’t spare thousands of dollars, the Ai81s are near as good as it gets and you’re sure to get many years of use out of them.
Editors' Recommendations Best bookshelf speakers 2023: from passive to powered and for every budget UE’s Epicboom is a powerful, portable, pool-proof speaker The best waterproof Bluetooth speakers for 2023: from JBL, Marshall, and more Klipsch follows the success of The Fives with The Sevens and Nines powered speakers Edifier MP230 Hands-on Review: The pint-sized, retro Bluetooth speaker brings a vintage vibe Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Audio / Video If you have a very large room in your house, a very large amount of disposable income, and a very large obsession with sound, there's a good chance you're going to want to check out Klipsch's Jubilee speakers -- a very large pair of two-way, fully horn-loaded floor-standing behemoths that will set you back $35,000 per pair. Can't wait to get them delivered? They're available now through Klipsch's certified Heritage dealers.
The Jubilee take a special place in the Klipsch line-up, not only as the company's most premium flagship speaker, but also as the last product that founder, Paul W. Klipsch, worked on before he died. According to the company, it was his dream to create a fully horn-loaded speaker that would satisfy the most ardent audiophiles. The Jubilee was originally intended to be the successor to the Klipschorn -- Klipsch's previous flagship, but the project grew beyond a simple upgrade of that product.
Audio / Video Marshall has two new ultra-portable Bluetooth speakers just in time for your spring/summer adventures. The company has created a new version of its excellent Emberton -- the $170 Emberton II -- with more power and new features, plus it has a new, palm-sized offering called the Willen, which sells for $120. Both are available in black/brass and cream colors and can be pre-ordered starting May 3 from Marshall's website.
The Willen is incredibly small -- literally palm-sized -- but Marshall says you can expect decent sound from its 2-inch driver and dual passive radiators. It also has surprisingly decent battery life for such a small speaker. Marshall claims more than 15 hours of playtime and it says you'll be able to fully charge the internal battery in three hours, while a 20-minute quick-charge will buy you an additional three hours of use if you're in a pinch.
Audio / Video Fluance has released its next-generation lineup of Reference Series speakers, consisting of four different speaker options to meet the needs of home theater enthusiasts.
The speakers, which range from $150 to $600, are immediately available through either Fluance’s website or Amazon. The lineup includes floor-standing speakers (the XL8F), bookshelf speakers (XL8S), a center channel speaker (XL8C) ,and bipolar speakers (XL8BP).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
