Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Audio / Video News Harman/Kardon Soundsticks 4 review: What’s old is new again By Jaron Schneider Close $299.99 Classic yet updated styling Warm, approachable sound LED in subwoofer is a nice touch Supports Bluetooth and 3.5mm jack Great value Subwoofer has to sit on your desk No EQ adjustment options Does not ship with an aux cable The Harman/Kardon Soundsticks are classic. I can’t say I personally owned any of the prior iterations that have been released dating back as far as the year 2000, but I can say I knew someone who did. In college, these were the computer speakers to own.
Out of the box Clear vibes Tabletop in mind Soundsticks sound good Our take But 20 years after they first hit the market and with some updates to keep them relevant, how do the new $300 anniversary edition Harman/Kardon Soundsticks 4 hold up? The design is unique and largely unchanged since the original, but how well do they work and, more importantly, how do they sound? Let’s get into it.
20-year-old design lives on in Harmon Kardon’s $300 Aura Studio 3 speaker Out of the box The Soundsticks 4 are packaged very simply, and I would argue this is a good thing. Though they launched initially along with the iMac back in 2000, Harman/Kardon has not seemed to continue on the packaging trend Apple is on with hard cardboard and a ton of plastic. While there is some here, the main box and interior packaging is all standard cardboard and foam, which kept the Soundsticks safe in their travels to me. It’s not particularly sustainable packaging, but it’s not the worse we’ve encountered either.
Jaron Schneider / Digital Trends The Soundsticks 4 ship with a left and right four-driver speaker unit, the subwoofer, a power cable, and that’s it. Considering these are computer speakers first and foremost, I found it odd that Harman/Kardon did not ship these with a 3.5mm audio aux cable, especially since the Soundsticks 4 accept the hard line-in. Out of the box, the only immediate connection option you have is Bluetooth, which works but to me isn’t ideal. Sure, I like Bluetooth, but as a video editor in a past life, I have a hard time trusting wireless connections when engaging in critical listening. Television companies have set themselves up so that it’s well known that you don’t typically get an HDMI cable in the box, but computer speakers have no such expectation. If you’re going to provide the input, provide the cable.
Clear vibes Jaron Schneider / Digital Trends If you were not familiar with the Soundsticks prior to this version, they have always had this transparent build to them that originally looked great for the time and especially with the iMac they were designed to pair with. But 20 years later, the emphasis on using see-through plastic with electronics has significantly faded. It’s not a bad look by any means, but in 2020 the design aesthetic is extremely uncommon and likely polarizing.
For example, on a video call with the Soundsticks in the background behind me, someone legitimately asked me if they were a humidifier.
Thanks to the white and gray used throughout, I think the design has aged pretty well.
But I kind of like them. Next to a 27-inch iMac, I personally think they don’t look bad at all. Compared to the original, the Soundsticks 4 use significantly more non-transparent parts, which excellently frame the clear pieces. I think if this entire system was as see-through as the original back in the year 2000, it would be pretty garish, but thanks to the white and gray used throughout, I think the design has aged pretty well.
Jaron Schneider / Digital Trends Tabletop in mind Harman/Kardon continued a curious design choice with these: All three pieces are very clearly meant to sit on top of your desk. The left and right speaker units have no controls on them to speak of. Instead, those are located on the front and back of the subwoofer. Volume, which I suppose you could just control from your computer, is toggled by two raised white buttons on the front of the sub, while the power and Bluetooth connect buttons are found around back. Additionally, changing volume, powering on, or connecting to a Bluetooth device all produce a different glow from the LEDs inside the subwoofer, which means you’re very clearly meant to see it illuminate, which you probably wouldn’t notice if it was in the typical subwoofer position of on the floor under the desk.
Jaron Schneider / Digital Trends I suppose the idea is that you would not want to “hide” the subwoofer under the table because of the design, but it’s not particularly practical. The sub is quite large, which means it will occupy a big portion of your desk space. I don’t know about all of you out there, but my desk isn’t particularly expansive. It’s large, but when you put my laptop stand, my monitor, and my podcasting microphone up, there isn’t a lot of room left for other items. The left and right speaker arrays are luckily quite thin and easy to hide, but the subwoofer is going to take up a lot of space. The sub is also powerful, which means you definitely can feel it shaking the table when it plays music. I’m not a big fan of that when I’m trying to work.
If you were considering just placing it on the floor, you could but know the sound quality will degrade. I’ll get into the breakdown of sound quality in the next section but know that I tested the sound with the sub both on the table and below it, and the audio quality was noticeably worse with the sub on the floor.
Soundsticks sound good I may point out the lack of an aux cable and the need to have all three parts sitting on a table, but all that might be worth it for the audio quality: The Soundsticks 4 sound fabulous.
The Soundsticks 4 sound fabulous.
I was honestly surprised how good the sound quality was out of what looked to me to be thin, small arrays. Sure, they had four drivers apiece, but being so small, could they really do that much? Well, not only are they doing plenty, they are rich and full sounding in ways that seem to defy their svelte design.
Jaron Schneider / Digital Trends Sagres by The Last Man on Earth comes through full and detailed, with the nuanced lyrics blending beautifully with the bass. The Decemberists’ Once in My Life is my go-to for picking out detailed vocal audio, and while it’s not perfect, the Soundsticks 4 do a very respectable job replicating the lead singer’s high timbres-focused voice. These speakers definitely put more emphasis on the lows and the mids than the highs, but the result is a very warm and rich sound, though slightly less detailed than other speakers and audio equipment. In their price range and especially for computer speakers, I really like what I am hearing out of them.
As mentioned, the bass seems to do a much better job filling out audio when it’s located at the same level as the left and right speakers. Placing the subwoofer on the floor made music sound noticeably less rich.
If you restrict the Soundsticks with lower volume, they aren’t particularly good at presenting balanced EQ.
I also noticed that when the Soundsticks 4 are playing at less than half their max volume, sound quality worsens. If you restrict the Soundsticks with lower volume, they aren’t particularly good at presenting balanced EQ.
Speaking of EQ, the SoundSticks do not offer a way to manage that at all. This is generally OK, because the Soundsticks sound pretty great right out of the box, but I do miss being able to tune it to my preferences. The bass is noticeable, but it’s not going to knock you out of your seat. If you want incredible, teeth-rattling bass our of your computer speakers, you should probably look elsewhere.
Since this is a Bluetooth speaker, if you’re using Spotify on mobile, you can change the EQ in the settings there, but I found boosting the settings there actually seemed to push the Soundsticks 4 too much, and there was a lot of bad audio cracking occurring. What I heard was akin to audio signal peaking, and it was like they were unable to compensate for the digital signal that was pushing them too far. I blame this more on Spotify than I do the Soundsticks, but given that I don’t have any way to adjust sound any other way, the experience was disappointing.
Our take The Harman/Kardon Soundsticks 4 are a fantastic twist on a classic design, with just enough updates to make them fit in 2020 without breaking too far from the classic look. Aside from what amounts to a few small flaws, they sound fantastic and represent great value for the asking price.
Are there other options? If you’re really craving the classic look the Soundsticks 4 bring to the table, it’s going to be hard to find something comparable. If you don’t mind something more understated, I actually really like my Edifier R1700BT speakers. They aren’t compatible with a dedicated subwoofer, however. Similarly, in our best computer speakers roundup , we also recommend Aperion Allaire or the Audioengine A2+. You’re going to find these all come in a bit less expensive than the Soundsticks, but none of them ship with a subwoofer either.
How long will they last? Even though they’re made of nearly entirely plastic (at least on the outside), they feel robust. Given that they shouldn’t move around much, I would expect these to last for years.
Should you buy them? Yes, if this style is your thing. They sound great, and even though you’re going to have to make a lot of room on your desk to support them, they are worth it for the sound and aesthetics.
Editors' Recommendations What’s a headphone amp, and why would you need one? Computing Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Audio / Video As far as TVs go, 75-inches is the sweet spot for most -- big enough to cover a living room wall with some great viewing angles, but not so expensive that it's going to empty your wallet with inordinate costs, either. But at full price, 75-inch TVs can still be somewhat expensive, especially depending on the brand you choose. Except during Black Friday and Cyber Week, one of the best times of the year to capitalize on excellent deals.
Right now, a ton of early Black Friday deals are going live, across a host of retailers, and on a wide variety of goods and electronics. So, here we are, in the ideal time of the year to nab an excellent 75-inch TV deal, but where do you start? We've gone ahead and gathered up some of the best Black Friday TV deals available right now, just to make things a bit simpler for everybody. These cover some of the best QLED TV Black Friday deals and one of the best OLED TV Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video Headphones are great when you're jamming on your own or listening to an audiobook, but if you're with friends or family, you'll find something that's a bit more accessible to more folks. That's where Bluetooth speakers like the Skullcandy Barrel come in; you can all listen to some great music or create a great atmosphere, and it's even great for playing tabletop RPGs like Dungeons and Dragons. You also don't have to spend much money to get a good one, as Walmart has a great deal on the Skullcandy Barrel, bringing it down to $79 from $90.
Audio / Video Apple is offering PlayStation 5 (PS5) owners six free months of its Apple Music streaming service.
In a deal with PlayStation maker Sony, Apple is letting PS5 owners enjoy all the benefits of the music streaming service, which offers around 100 million tracks for ad-free listening.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
