Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? JBL Pulse 5 review: decent sound, trippy lava-lamp light show By Derek Malcolm Close $249.95 Bright, vivid light features Dustproof, waterproof IP67 rating Clear, dynamic sound Feature-rich app Basic EQing in-app A bit lacking in bass No AUX input Lacks physical controls JBL’s Pulse Bluetooth speakers have long been popular for their fun and cool-looking lava-lamp light show features, and we’re happy to report that the latest version, the Pulse 5, is just as trippy as its brethren, with a few upgrades and new features to keep the line going strong. While its 360-degree LEDs are easily the main draw here — they’re colorful and have a bunch of customizable light show settings you can adjust via its app — the sound the JBL Pulse 5 pumps out is decent, but only suitable for small- to mid-sized rooms on its own, or bigger rooms when linked up to other Pulse speakers. Beachgoers and pool partiers might forgive the Pulse 5’s sound deficit because it’s waterproof and dustproof, making it a great ally outdoors.
Design and features JBL Portable app and LED controls Sound quality and performance Battery Bottom line The Pulse 5’s hefty $250 price might make it worth having a look at other JBL Bluetooth speakers, like the excellent Flip 6 or the booming Xtreme 3.
 That said, if you’re as dazzled by the design and gorgeous ambiance light features of the Pulse 5 as I was, and you’re not in need of a speaker that shakes the walls, read on for what we liked and didn’t like about JBL’s latest lava lamp with speakers.
LG’s new XBoom XL7 and XL5 speakers offer a portable sound and light show JBL brings Dolby Atmos soundbar and ANC headphones to CES 2021 You can now print your own photos on JBL’s Bluetooth speakers and headphones Design and features Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Like the JBL Pulse 3 and Pulse 4 before it, this latest fifth generation of JBL’s popular upright portable Bluetooth speaker is simply gorgeous. The entire outer shell of the Pulse 5 is clear plastic all around, save for the top and bottom caps which house the Pulse 5’s top upward-firing 0.6-inch tweeter and the bottom, down-firing 2.5-inch 30-watt woofer that gets just under an inch of clearance thanks to the device’s three rubber feet.
Pushing the psychedelic aesthetic even further, behind the clear shell is the speaker’s core of brilliant LED lights, which seemingly floats, moves, and color-shifts like a glob of melted wax in a more modern lava lamp.
The only other features interrupting the flow of the Pulse 5’s clear shell are its sturdy nylon loop strap and a beautifully compact 3.5-inch long panel of physical controls that houses the USB-C charging port, power, Bluetooth, and PartyBoost connectivity buttons (for pairing multiple Pulse speakers together), as well as a button to control the LEDs (on, off, and a long-press lets you change the mode) and a power-level light.
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Achieving this clean flow, however, comes at the expense of any physical playback or track navigation controls, which the Pulse 4 has. I often found it a nuisance having to always reach for my phone to adjust the volume or pause a track, especially when my device was in another room. Maybe the decision was made to dissuade people from touching the clear speaker, which may not have been a bad idea considering the fingerprints and smudges it picks up.
On its own, a single Pulse 5 delivers mono sound (we’ll get into how it sounds below), but when connected to another Pulse with the PartyBoost feature, a stereo pair can be created. Or you can link multiple compatible speakers for a bigger sound. I only received one review unit to test out, so I was unable to try this feature.
With no AUX in port, the JBL Pulse 5 relies solely on its Bluetooth 5.3 connectivity with the standard SBC codec support , which is sufficient, but for $250, support for higher quality codecs such as AAC (found in the excellent, and cheaper, Sonos Roam ) would have been nice. It does have Bluetooth multipoint , though, so you can pair up to two devices to the Pulse 5 simultaneously in case you and a friend want to divvy up the DJ responsibilities.
The Pulse 5 has the best light show features of any portable Bluetooth speaker I’ve ever seen, and it’s a ton of fun.
Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, is that even though the JBL Pulse 5 might look more like a speaker you’d find in a hazy, dimly lit, wood-paneled basement, like many of JBL’s rugged outdoor speakers the Pulse 5’s IP67 rating makes it virtually dust resistant and able to be dunked in up to a meter of water for up to 30 minutes. I decided to test it out in my hot tub, casually knocking the speaker into the bubbling water.
Its 3.5-pound weight plunged it down a little before it happily bobbed back to the surface — it floats! To be clear, it’s not meant to be listened to in or underwater — the IP67 rating just means that it can withstand it — so there was little sound coming from it as the water enveloped the speakers. Removing the speaker from the water, the sound was muffled and the bass was severely distorted, which worried me at first. But after tipping the speaker over end-t0-end and draining the water out, it only took a few minutes before the Pulse 5’s sound cleared up.
To be clear, the Pulse 5 is not a “rugged” speaker, so I’d be careful not to knock it off a table or toss it around like a football (that would look cool, though). But a poolside sound and light show is the perfect venue for the Pulse 5.
JBL Portable app and LED controls Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Pairing the JBL 5 to your device, be it a smartphone, tablet, or computer, is as easy as pairing any Bluetooth device. Once paired, you can of course play music from your favorite streaming services, or push the sound to it from whatever you’re watching on YouTube or Netflix.
The JBL Portable app (free for Android and iOS devices) is a well-designed, easy-to-use app that adds a handful of helpful and fun features and controls as well. From the home screen, you instantly see the battery life of the speaker. Sound features include simple bass, mid, and treble EQ sliders (be sure to disable or take into account the EQ settings on your streaming app, though, because they’ll both affect your music) and a selection of Ambient Sounds you can play for sleeping or background noise, such as waves, crickets, campfire, and bird sounds that can be put on a timer. You can also control the PartyBoost feature here, too.
But let’s get to the fun part of the Portable app — light controls. There’s nearly no limit to the amount of tweaking you can do to the Pluse 5’s LEDs, which are in two sections: the main base of the cylinder and radiating underneath with the woofer. the Light Controls selection allows you to turn them on or off and a slider lets you set the brightness level.
For a speaker with drivers of this size, the Pulse 5 delivers exceptional clarity in the mids and highs, especially on vocals.
There are six Light Show presets each with editable sub-themes, including Party, Cocktail, Weather, Canvas, Spiritual, and Nature, all of which can be set to a specific color or on a random color loop. You can even change the tempo of the light’s changing speed to suit a mood, from slow and super chill to upbeat freakout. The Pulse 5 has the best light show features of any portable Bluetooth speaker I’ve ever seen, and it’s a ton of fun.
Sound quality and performance Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends While the Pulse 5’s focus seems to be more on the light show, for a mono speaker of its size it’s reasonably loud, sounds pretty decent, and will be enough to satisfy most people. For my test, I used Spotify (Tidal’s lossless audio would be totally lost on this speaker) and started with the EQ off on both the Spotify app and the JBL Portable app, as well. I first tested the speaker in my small home office my media sideboard unit about six inches from the wall.
For a speaker with drivers of this size, the Pulse 5 delivers exceptional clarity in the mids and highs, especially on vocals in tracks from the likes of Radiohead, Paramore, Bad Bunny, and even heavier fare from Metallica. It might be a bit treble-forward for my liking, and a bit tinny at higher volumes, but overall it sounds great. Don’t push this speaker though — things start to break up a bit at the very limits, but if you’re looking for something to fill a bigger room then you might want to try the Sony SRS-SG300.
On the low end of the spectrum, the Pulse 5 was a little disappointing with the no-EQ settings I started out with. At higher volumes, it was present and rumbled the table, especially on bass-heavy songs like Billie Eilish’s xanny , which is kind of my litmus test as it’s mixed pretty saturated and comes through no matter what speaker I listen to it on. However, things start to get interesting when you turn on the Portable app’s EQing and goose the bass. The sound fills out and gets bigger and wider. Then, turning off the Portable app’s EQ and instead using Spotify’s native EQ was even better, allowing for more flexibility and dynamics in the mix. The flat EQ setting is balanced and clear on the Pulse 5, and with some boosted bass, it sounds great and gets loud.
The JBL Pulse 5 handles most sound situations relatively well and performed admirably everywhere I put it.
With more piercing tracks, like Smashing Pumpkins’ Cherub Rock , though, I had to ease off on the 2.4kHz and 15kHz frequency sliders that were piercing my ears. All this is to say that if you’re willing to do the tweaking, this thing can sound excellent, and especially shines at mid to lower volume levels.
Moving the speaker around — in a corner, on a bookshelf, out in the open — yields different sound dynamics, like any speaker, and I didn’t have any issues with the Bluetooth connectivity. The JBL Pulse 5 handles most sound situations relatively well and performed admirably everywhere I put it. Is it worth $250? Considering what else is out there at this price, I’m not so sure.
Battery The JBL Pulse 5 is a portable Bluetooth speaker that one would assume will be taken to a variety of places to dazzle friends and partiers with its cavalcade of lights and sound, so it’s important that it has enough battery power to do so. With a 7,500 mAh battery, JBL claims that the Pulse 5 can last for up to 12 hours, which is about average for a Bluetooth speaker of its size (the Sonos Roam and Move, in comparison, clock around 10 hours, while our top-rated Marshall Emberton II boasts a substantial 20 hours). The Pulse 5 takes around four hours to fully charge from zero with the included USB-C to USB-A cable.
Bottom line Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends In the case of the JBL Pulse 5 , I’m going to say that it’s totally OK to be dazzled by all the pretty lights and worry less about the sound. Because, dammit, this thing looks super cool, it can create a great lava lamp or party vibe, and the sound is good and loud enough to impress. Are there portable speakers out there that cost less than $250 and offer better sound quality? Sure there are, and we’ve mentioned a few throughout the review (you can also see more in our roundup of the best Bluetooth speakers ). But if you’re less fussy about high-res audio or better Bluetooth codecs and are looking for a fun, unique, portable sound and light show that’s as at home by the pool (or in the pool) as it is in your chill-out den, then the Pulse 5 might be a little extra money well spent.
Editors' Recommendations Sony’s latest party speaker brings a light show to your next karaoke session JBL shows off new true wireless earbuds and speakers at CES 2022 With wheels, clips, and shoulder straps, JBL’s new speakers take the party to go JBL headphones and speakers sale cuts up to $200 off in time for festival season Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Speakers Wireless & Bluetooth Speaker Reviews Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals and Amazon Black Friday deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals, 55-inch TV Black Friday deals 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
