Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Audio / Video LG UltraGear GP9 review: The best gaming speaker you shouldn’t buy By Jacob Roach Close $499.00 Excellent sound quality for gaming DTS:X and Hi-Res headphone support Wide sound field Superb microphone echo cancellation Way too expensive Weak battery life Subpar music experience LG’s UltraGear brand is known for gaming monitors, but it’s branching out. The GP9 gaming speaker is LG’s first attempt to establish UltraGear as a gaming brand beyond the realm of monitors, and hopefully get LG into the conversation when it comes to the best gaming speakers.
 It’s a solid attempt, but one that’s unfortunately marred by nagging oversights and an astronomical $500 price tag.
Getting connected Built for gaming Movies and music take a back seat A functional built-in microphone The app: A case of compromise Our take It seems LG designed the GP9 in a vacuum, outpacing alternatives like the Razer Leviathan and Panasonic SoundSlayer by a few hundred dollars. On paper, the GP9’s features are what justify its higher price — a built-in microphone for voice chat, support for hi-res audio, and wireless operation on the built-in battery. In practice, however, these perks don’t add up to match the price LG is asking.
LG OLED TVs just became the best TVs for gaming with Nvidia G-Sync support Immediately after unboxing and setting up the GP9, I was floored by its performance while gaming. This is among the best gaming speakers, and there’s no way to deny that, but it’s hard for the GP9 to remain in the conversation when speakers that cost half as much sound almost as good.
Getting connected Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The GP9 includes three inputs and two output. For inputs, you can connect it through the USB-C connector, an optical cable, or Bluetooth. That’s a solid assortment of options, though I have to imagine most will default to using USB, which is what I did throughout my review.
Bluetooth is a nice addition, but I wouldn’t want to use the GP9 as a Bluetooth speaker.
 It’s big and bulky, for one, so it’s not the best travel companion, and it doesn’t have an IP or water-resistance rating, so it’s not a great idea to leave it outside. Even with those issues, the real killer is battery life.
The GP9 has a built-in battery that LG says can last for five hours, but even that’s generous. During a morning with sparse usage for video calls and the occasional YouTube video, the speaker held up for just shy of four hours. Blink, and the GP9 is dead.
In addition to the the inputs, the GP9 includes a headphone output. This port supports DTS Headphone:X for virtual 7.1 surround sound, but this is less of a feature and more of a plus. The GP9 is a $500 gaming speaker, after all, so it would be a shame to plug in headphones just to use virtual surround sound.
Built for gaming Using the GP9 for the first time is the equivalent of putting on a pair of the best gaming headphones.
 The soundscape suddenly opened up, sound effects felt like they had impact, and music complemented the game audio instead of working against it. If you’ve used a high-quality gaming headset, you know already know the experience the GP9 provides.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends In Deep Rock Galactic, the synth-ridden soundtrack perfectly overlayed the sound of the drill through stone, and the sound field seemed to stretch from one end of the room to the other. My desk is in the living room, but even still, the GP9 enveloped the space.
The default sound profile sounds great. I took it out for a spin in a few rounds of Call of Duty: Vanguard and Halo Infinite, and I was able to pick out footsteps, bullet sprays, and explosions all around me. LG’s 3D Gaming Sound may seem like a gimmick, but it works.
In addition to the default profile, the GP9 includes an FPS profile and an RTS profile. The names are irrelevant, even if these profiles sound great. The FPS profile has more of a forward presence with a lot of the sound moving to the center of the sound field, while the RTS profile pushes things off to the sides, as if the floor dropped out from the frequency range.
There’s no denying that the GP9 sounds excellent in games.
The GP9 sounds great for games, expertly placing the smallest nuances around the sound field in a way that even separated 2.0 systems fail to manage. It’s tough to ignore the cost, though. At $500, sound isn’t enough. The Razer Leviathan sounds great, too, and it’s half the price, and it includes a dedicated subwoofer.
Movies and music take a back seat The LG GP9 is a gaming speaker, and that shows through in the sound quality in other mediums. It’s tuned for playing games, not listening to music or watching movies.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Music was the biggest pain point for the GP9. I started with stressing the bass, loading up DNA by Kendrick Lamar and See You Again by Tyler, The Creator (which turned into a full listen of Flower Boy, as it often does). For $500, I wasn’t impressed. The GP9 sounded fine, but no better than a $200 Bluetooth speaker like the Sonos Roam.
With music, the main issue was consistent bass. Songs with a consistent low-end — such as a metal track like Circle With Me from Spiritbox — worked well, but any sort of dynamic low-end fell apart. The GP9 is subject to the compression that often comes with smaller speakers, with the high-end ducking out of the way for just a moment while the bass thumps.
And the bass thumps. The two passive bass radiators kick out some impressive low-end for such a small speaker, perhaps even too much. Sonically, it’s not too heavy on the bass, but the speaker consistently vibrated forward on my desk while listening to music, even at around half volume.
When watching movies or listening to music, it was as if I was using a completely different speaker.
On the other end of the frequency spectrum, there are still issues. The speaker is very bright, and it doesn’t separate the higher frequencies when the volume is turned up. I couldn’t counteract the issue with EQ, only dull it. A couple of larger satellite speakers, such as the Logitech G560s , can handle those higher frequencies with more grace.
If you want to listen to music, stick with headphones. Through a flat pair of cans like the BeyerDynamic DT 770 Pros, the quad DAC shines. It supports hi-res, lossless audio, and I could pick out the bright top-end, warm bass, and massive sound field compared to my PC’s sound card immediately.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Movies were better on the speaker. I watched Dune and Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings, and Dune sounded great. Moving from ambient to bombastic in the score felt natural, and the soundscape, although narrow, still felt much wider than the speaker.
Shang-Chi brought me back down to Earth, with the sound seeming to funnel up in the harsh upper midrange.
Even with a bright spot in Dune, this isn’t a speaker I’d use outside of gaming. When watching movies or listening to music, it was as if I was using a completely different speaker.
A functional built-in microphone Jacob Roach / Digital Trends A perk of the GP9 over gaming speakers like the Panasonic SoundSlayer is that it includes a microphone, but the quality isn’t great. It’s only slightly above a laptop’s microphone, though it was able to cleanly pick up my voice from a few feet away.
What impressed me more was LG’s noise canceling. LG calls it Clear Voice Chat technology, which sounds like nothing more than a bullet point on a product page. Thankfully, it’s more. Even when listening at a comfortable volume, the microphone was able to separate my voice from the speaker’s audio, and that’s tough to achieve.
The microphone is a voice chat solution, just not a great one. Clear Voice Chat is an impressive addition, but I would choose most other microphones over the one inside the GP9. You’ll get far better quality with a $150 headset that has a boom mic, such as the Corsair HS80 Wireless.
The app: A case of compromise Image used with permission by copyright holder The LG GP9 is designed for gamers, not by gamers, and you don’t need to look further than LG’s XBoom app to see that. The app isn’t bad, and using it to get the GP9 set up how I liked only took a few minutes. But it’s absurd that a speaker designed for PC gaming doesn’t have a desktop app.
XBoom feels like a half-baked solution.
To link the speaker, you need to pop it over to Bluetooth, download the app, pair it with your phone, and then switch back to your original audio source. That took me about 30 seconds. Here’s the problem: Turn off Bluetooth, and you have to repeat the process all over again. It’s not bdeal-breaking, but XBoom still feels like a half-baked solution.
In the app, you can adjust the EQ curve, change the RGB underglow, and update the firmware of the speaker, as well as access all of the functions that are available on top of the speaker as buttons. It’s not a bad app, but a desktop version would go a long way in rounding out the GP9’s list of features.
Our take LG has pitched an attractive piece of kit with the GP9. It’s a speaker that delivers on the experience of a gaming headset without the annoyances, fit with a wide sound field, built-in mic for communication, and a healthy dose of RGB flair. At $300, I would be singing the GP9’s praises. At $500, it’s an excellent gaming speaker that you shouldn’t buy.
It’s one of the best gaming speakers sonically, but sound isn’t enough for a speaker that costs as much as a new console.
Are there any alternatives? Dozens. The Razer Leviathan and Panasonic SoundSlayer are the most obvious alternatives, but there are several other options for gaming. Those include the Audioengine A2+ speakers and Logitech G560 kit, both of which are cheaper than the LG GP9.
How long will it last? Without using the GP9 for years, it’s hard to say how long the speaker will hold up. LG offers a standard one-year warranty for parts and labor.
Should you buy it? No, unless you can get one on sale. The GP9 is too expensive for what it is, and its positive qualities are outweighed by its price. If you can pick one up for around $300, though, it’s an excellent option.
Editors' Recommendations This is the best Bluetooth speaker under $100 you can buy right now Computing LG PC Gaming Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
