Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Marshall Emberton II and Willen review: A stylish set of Bluetooth speakers you can take anywhere By Ted Kritsonis Close Excellent sound quality Rugged IP67 build Easy portability Great battery life Sync with similar speakers No AAC or aptX support No wired playback Pricey When it comes to Bluetooth speakers , there’s an insane number of them to choose from. Most are perfectly adequate for casual listening, but if we’re being brutally honest, they’re not much to look at. Marshall’s line of portables neatly avoid the generic speaker trap by leaning into to the brand’s iconic history as one of the most recognizable names in live rock ‘n’ roll. For 2022, it has updated its Emberton speaker — now the $170 Emberton II — and added an even smaller and more portable sibling, the $120 Willen.
What’s in the box Design Setup and Marshall app Sound quality Battery life Our take Marshall Emberton II Marshall Willen So from a size and style point of view, these two speakers already have a lot going for them. They can even play beyond their respective frames, and we spent a lot of time with them to find out just how far they can go. But has Marshall thrown in enough features and performance to justify its premium pricing on the Emberton II and Willen? Let’s check them out.
Best wireless speakers for 2023: Sonos, Apple, KEF, and more Skullcandy’s new Bluetooth speaker lineup boasts big battery life for $30 to $80 Pantheone’s Obsidian smart speaker puts Alexa in a sharp new body What’s in the box Despite being different speakers, they each unbox exactly the same way, with the same contents inside. Apart from the USB-C charging cable and user manual, there’s nothing else to discover inside. These speakers aren’t exactly made to work with accessories anyway, but I’ll get to that part further down.
Design Emberton II Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends Here, too, the design principles align for both. They’re not new, however, since Marshall largely built the original Emberton the same way. This time, the rubberized veneer has more of a leather texture to it, and the grille is black to accentuate the brass color logo at the front. Marshall did also make a cream variant for this speaker that sports its own retro look in the company’s signature style.
The dimensions of 2.7 x 6.3 x 3.0 inches and weight of 1.5-pounds are identical to the previous Emberton. Marshall also didn’t move the multifunction button, LEDs, or USB-C port. That familiar territory also extends to what’s inside, courtesy of the dual 2-inch drivers with 10-watt Class-D amps and two passive radiators.
So what’s changed? And why is Marshall asking $20 more for the Emberton II? A key change is that you can sync the Emberton II with other Emberton II speakers in what’s called Stack Mode. It works similarly to JBL’s Party Mode and Soundcore’s PartyCast mode.
It’s also more robust, now with dust protection, as well as waterproofing, for a combined IP67 rating.
 That’s enough to survive full immersion in water for up to 30 minutes at a depth of about three feet, plus any sand or debris that might go along with your beach adventures.
But keep in mind, unlike some other full waterproof portables, the Emberton II does not float. And if you take it into a pool or salt water, you had better give it a thorough rinse in fresh water before putting it away.
Willen Despite their similarities, it’s not possible to “stack” these two speakers together. The mode only works with the same speaker types. The original Emberton doesn’t support the feature, so there was no way to get it to pair with its successor.
Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends The Willen is the smaller of these two, but arguably the more versatile. It’s a lightweight at 0.68 pounds, and easy to carry with its frame measuring 4 x 4 x 3 inches. It holds one driver and amp, instead of two, though it does also have two passive radiators. A rubber strap on the back also lets you mount it onto whatever it can wrap around.
It’s cool to have, but I did run into some issues with it, like when it was too short to strap onto my bike’s handlebars. It’s also not as stretchy as it looks, so the application is going to be hit-or-miss. You may find success with a thinner bar, or on a bag, as there is no real defined application for it. Whatever you can strap it onto is really up to you.
Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends Marshall claims 60% of the Willen’s plastic comes from recycled electronics, a little further ahead of the 50% it uses to make the Emberton II. Whatever Marshall put in these two, it did make them fairly rugged and tough. The Willen shares the Emberton II’s IP67 rating.
Setup and Marshall app There’s not much to setting these two up, and the process is identical for both. On Android devices, Google Fast Pair will pop up once you establish contact, though it’s best to already have the Marshall app installed on your phone to speed up the process. On iOS, it’s not all that different, with the app helping to pair up with your iPhone or iPad in no time.
The Marshall app is the other big change for the Emberton II. The original model had no companion app at all, so things like settings changes or firmware updates weren’t available. It’s not an especially feature-rich addition. It lets you monitor each speaker’s battery level, access three EQ presets (Marshall’s own signature tuning, Push for bass boost, or Voice for enhanced spoken word content), and engage Stack Mode.
With only one of each speaker on hand, I wasn’t able to test Stack mode, so I’m not entirely sure how well it works or sounds. What is clear is that the app makes the connections, and it treats the first speaker as the “main” while any others act as the additions. There’s no official limit to how many you can stack this way. Marshall claims it has linked as many as 30 speakers with no problems. Unfortunately, there’s no way to use Stack Mode to create a stereo pair between two similar Marshall speakers, but you can connect a single speaker to two Bluetooth sources simultaneously, which lets you seamlessly share DJ responsibilities with a friend.
Controlling the speakers is easy. Both use a brass multifunction button that doubles as a directional pad. Press and hold to power on or off, or hold it longer to put it back in pairing mode. Pressing left or right will repeat or skip a track, while up and down raises or lowers volume. The controls and battery life indicator do the exact same things on both the Emberton II and Willen.
The Willen is the only one of the two with a built-in microphone for calls. You can’t talk to anyone with the Emberton II, so you’re out of luck if you were hoping for some speakerphone functionality. It’s not remarkable, but the Willen does a good job with calls, and aside from a couple of connectivity hiccups, conversations went smoothly.
Sound quality Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends Neither the Emberton II nor the Willen support the AAC or aptX codecs. They’re going all the way with SBC, so if you’re thinking of going hi-res with your tunes, these two aren’t an option. Without a 3.5mm Aux-In jack, there’s no way to go wired, and the USB-C port, is only for charging. I tried playing music through it on both speakers, but nothing happened.
The good news is they get louder than you would expect. There’s real power inside, with pleasant clarity, particularly in the 40% to 60% volume range. I barbecue a lot, and I had one or the other of these speakers near me during the time I was testing them. I really enjoyed the Emberton’s resonance while hearing the barbecue’s sizzle as I was grilling, and I kept it going by listening to a podcast as I had my meal. I topped it all off with a drink and cigar. Either speaker just fit in with the situation and environment, and the portability only made that easier.
One thing to keep in mind with both speakers, however, is the way Marshall splits the stereo output. The front grille takes the left channel, while the back grille outputs the right. Marshall calls this “true stereophonic” sound, and it does indeed provide a sphere of audio that sounds great from any direction. But there are two caveats: You don’t quite get the left/right stereo separation you may be used to from traditional one-sided speakers and placing these speakers in locations where the front and back have unequal room to breathe will affect sound quality, so try not to stash them in a bookshelf or too close to a wall.
I tried the Push EQ preset to gauge how much bass came out, and while very impressive, I did notice a catch. Push is supposed to boost the bass, which it does, but it loses some of its rumble when you blast it. Both the Marshall and Push presets were designed to offset the speaker’s limitations, meaning that raising the volume to the highest levels didn’t lead to obvious distortion, but it lessened the bass to keep the audio as clear as possible. That actually works out well for rock and guitar tracks, where bass isn’t as prevalent, but if you’re blasting hip-hop and R&B, you might find the effect a little surprising.
Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends It’s understandably more pronounced on the Emberton II than it is on the Willen, considering the size and output differences, but the gist is the same. Go really high, and the same thing happens. Even so, the Willen was a pleasure to have around in the same circumstances. Sure, it didn’t have the same beefy sound its larger brother does, but when you’re just lounging in a chair or sitting with a friend at a table, it’s a super-convenient thing to have.
The Emberton II is certainly heavier and bulkier, though not that much less portable if you’re throwing it into a bag. It gets up and running quickly, and can very easily play tunes loud enough for a small group of people. It will sound louder indoors than outdoors, but there’s no question it works for smaller gatherings outside.
Battery life Want one more reason to spend the extra $20 for the Emberton II over its predecessor? Battery life is now 50% longer. Marshall claims at least 30 hours of playback per charge (a 10-hour increase over the Emberton), which is mostly accurate if you don’t raise the volume above 50%. Keep it at full blast (or close to it) and you’re cutting it down by more than half. That’s still pretty good, all things considered, so if you’re listening at a regular volume, you won’t be charging it all that often. A quick 20-minute charge will get you up to four hours of playback, and a full charge from a dead battery will take three hours.
Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends The Willen follows a similar pattern. At a largely default volume, it will hit its rated 15-hour limit, and maybe more. Crank it up, and you’ll be charging it again by the end of the night. A quick 20-minute charge can give you up to another three hours playback, and it takes three hours to fill it up completely.
Our take Marshall Emberton II Marshall Willen Given how they look and sound, it was easy to like both the $170 Emberton II and $120 Willen.
 The retro styling and ruggedized build were made for all seasons, regardless of whether you’re chilling at the beach, or hitting the slopes in winter. You don’t get bells and whistles, just music that can get loud and proud when you want it. If Marshall’s sound rings true to your ears, these would be well worth a look.
Is there a better alternative? Both of these speakers play their tunes in competitive spaces. The Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 stands out against the Emberton II with its cylindrical build and more intricate EQ, though it won’t last as long per charge and may cost more. For less money, the JBL Flip 6 also goes the cylindrical route and offers similar pairing features with other speakers of its type. Loud, rugged, and with a deeper EQ, it’s got more of a sporty vibe to it, too.
Ultimate Ears can also take on the Willen with its cheaper Wonderboom 2 , which also has a cylindrical build that floats on water, though it won’t get as loud as Marshall’s speaker does. The Tribit Stormbox Micro 2 is a budget option with a durable frame that also comes with its own strap to mount where you need it.
How long will they last? Their respective durability suggests the Emberton II and Willen are built to last. You do have to take care of them by rinsing off any salt, sand, or dirt that may stick to them. They are made tough, just not impervious to all bumps and encounters with the elements. Marshall offers a one-year warranty to cover malfunction issues, but not water damage.
Should you buy them? Yes, because they sound better than most speakers at the same size, and despite lacking some features, they’re undeniably stylish in that classic Marshall way. You can pre-order both from MarshallHeadphones.com right now, and they’ll ship on June 30, 2022.
Editors' Recommendations Klipsch takes on Marshall with three new portable and rugged Bluetooth speakers The best Bluetooth speakers for 2023: Marshall, Sonos, JBL, and more Bluetooth bandwidth set to double, opening a path for video and lossless audio The best Bluetooth speakers for under $100 The best waterproof Bluetooth speakers for 2023: from JBL, Marshall, and more Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Wireless & Bluetooth Speaker Reviews Audio / Video When Sonos recently debuted its two newest wireless speakers -- the Era 100 and Era 300 -- it broke with years of precedence by adding Bluetooth, a connection option that has never been offered on the company’s non-portable speakers. At the time, I thought Bluetooth on an Era speaker worked the same way as it does on the Sonos Move. I was wrong.
It turns out, the Era speakers use Bluetooth in tandem with their Wi-Fi connections, as opposed to the Move, which treats Bluetooth as a completely separate mode. That has some profound implications for what you can do with one of the new Era speakers within a Sonos system, as well as a few caveats about what you can’t do.
Audio / Video Sonos has officially unveiled two new wireless smart speakers -- the $249 Sonos Era 100, and the $449 Sonos Era 300. While the Era 100 is effectively a new version of the aging Sonos One, which it replaces, the Era 300 is an entirely new type of speaker for the company, with six drivers (including an up-firing tweeter) and compatibility with spatial audio formats like Dolby Atmos.
The leaks pretty much nailed it. Both speakers will be available on March 28 in 26 countries including the U.S., Canada, Mexico, the U.K., Ireland, Germany, and Australia, with preorders beginning March 7.
Audio / Video The Marshall Middleton ($299) is the company's latest addition to its lineup of guitar amp-inspired Bluetooth speakers, and it's available starting January 31 at marshallheadphones.com. The Middleton, as its name somewhat suggests, sits in the middle of the Marshall portable family -- it shares the same rectangular shape as the Emberton II but is heavier and more powerful than the Stockton II.
What makes the Middleton stand out is its unique quad-driver configuration, which places speakers on all four sides. There are two full-range drivers, each with its own 20-watt amplifier, and two tweeters, powered by a pair of 10-watt amps. The Middleton uses the same "true stereophonic" system as the Emberton II to achieve what the company calls multidirectional, 360-degree stereo sound.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
