Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Trettitre TreSound 1 review: a sleek mountain of mediocre sound By Simon Cohen Close $699.00 Eye-catching, unique design Powerful bass No Wi-Fi or app support Underpowered midrange No EQ control Audible distortion on deep bass tracks The TreSound 1 Bluetooth speaker looks like a mountain, according to its manufacturer, Trettitre, an up-and-coming audio manufacturer based in China. I guess it kind of does, though I would also accept “tipi,” “Christmas tree,” and “nuclear warhead” as descriptors — they all seem equally valid.
Design All looks, no smarts What isn’t up for debate is the TreSound 1’s price — a mountainous $699.
The best wireless headphones for 2023 from Bose, Sony, 1More and more Tivoli Audio’s Model Two Digital speaker abandons terrestrial radio Best wireless speakers for 2023: Sonos, Apple, KEF, and more At that level of investment, the TreSound 1 finds itself competing with some serious talent, like the $699 Denon Home 350 wireless speaker, the $799 Sony SRS-RA5000 , and the $799 Bowers & Wilkins Zeppelin.
I had high hopes that the TreSound 1 would take me to sonic peaks I had yet to experience. But in the end, the terrain proved too steep to climb.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Design You can’t fault Trettitre for trying. Triangular or pyramidal shapes are inherently beguiling, which is one of the reasons I was so keen to try the TreSound 1. At just under 17 inches tall and with an 11.8-inch diameter base, it’s a striking object, whether you get it in black, green, red, or white, like our review model.
Trettitre It’s beautifully made, with a glossy finish that looks elegant and luxurious. The metal acoustic grille wraps around the upper portion of the cone, and almost seamlessly integrates into the body, along with the matching power/volume knob at the point.
When you turn it on, with a twist of said knob, a white light ring appears at the base, casting a gentle glow all the way around the speaker. A very soft amber light in the pinnacle lets you know when the speaker has paired successfully (pulsing for pairing mode, solid for paired). There’s also a 3.5mm analog line-in jack in the back if you don’t want to use Bluetooth.
Sadly, this speaker is all beauty and no brains.
And despite not being a very good match for our home decor, which uses a lot of fabrics, woods, and earth tones, it somehow managed to look good in a variety of locations. Unfortunately, it all goes, ahem, downhill from there.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends All looks, no smarts Normally, you might expect a $699 wireless speaker to have a few bells and whistles. Maybe a Wi-Fi connection so you can stream music directly from services like Apple Music or Spotify , or add the speaker to a multiroom setup. Perhaps an app that lets you adjust things like EQ, or vary the color of that LED light ring. Or, you might just want to be able to pair it with a second speaker for stereo sound.
Sadly, this speaker is all beauty and no brains. It has none of those things. There isn’t even a way to pause and play your music from the TreSound 1. On/off, volume up/down. That’s it.
OK, you say, don’t get too precious about all of the tech stuff, some speakers are just meant to sound good — to hell with all the extras. True, true.
But, no.
In theory, the speaker should sound really good. It supports aptX HD for up to 24-bit/48kHz sound. Nestled in the base is a 5.25-inch 30-watt down-firing subwoofer. Behind the grille sits a pair of 2.25-inch full-range drivers and a pair of silk-domed tweeters. There even are 60 watts of class D amplification powering the rig.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Yet in a bizarre case of what you see is what you get, the TreSound 1’s sound signature is shaped just like the speaker itself. There’s a very impressive bass response — deep and resonant — but the highs that are emitted from the top of the cone are so achingly bright that they totally overwhelm the midrange.
And with no EQ controls of any kind, you’re stuck with it. Changing the volume does little to help. If your chosen streaming app has a built-in equalizer and/or EQ presets, it’s possible to do some tweaking. But finding a combination of adjustments that only tame that wild top end, without affecting the rest of the frequencies, can be tricky if not impossible.
The wonderfully powerful subwoofer has been woefully mismanaged.
The overly aggressive highs sometimes actually work. Listening to the whistling hook and energetic chorus of OneRepublic’s I Ain’t Worried is enjoyable, as is Bbno$’s Edamame.
 But tracks that are more complex can suffer, leaving you feeling like something’s definitely missing.
What’s even more unfortunate is that the wonderfully powerful subwoofer has been woefully mismanaged. Fire up an ultradeep bass cut like Billie Eilish’s Bad Guy , and distortion sets in from the very first notes, even at 60% volume.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends At first, I thought the distortion might be happening because of the way the TreSound 1 manages volume. Unlike most Bluetooth speakers and headphones , which synchronize their amplification steps with your smartphone (a step up or down on your phone’s volume causes an increase or decrease of the speaker’s volume), the TreSound 1 uses its own analog amplification (controlled via the cone-shaped top volume dial) over and above whatever Bluetooth volume setting you choose on your phone. But even after experimenting with several combinations, I couldn’t prevent the distortion from creeping back in at louder volumes.
Trettitre touts the TreSound 1’s 360-degree sound pattern, and it’s true — if you place the speaker somewhere central, you get generally consistent audio (albeit with sweet spots in the “front” and “rear”). But I have the same qualms about the TreSound 1 as I do with any 360 speakers that need to be connected to power at all times: who among us has a central location in their bedroom, living room, or kitchen, with a conveniently located power outlet and a way to keep folks from tripping over the cord? There’s a reason why most 360 speakers have the ability to work on an internal battery, e.g. the Bose Portable Smart Speaker.
I really wanted to like the TreSound 1. Wireless speakers tend to look fairly similar, so the prospect of an eye-catching design matched with really great sound piqued my interest. But despite its undeniably unique shape and luxurious build quality, there’s just no way to rationalize the TreSound 1’s top-tier price of almost $700 with its disappointing sound and almost total lack of wireless speaker features. That’s way too much money to spend on a speaker that doesn’t sound fantastic.
Editors' Recommendations B&O’s latest speaker is a love letter to aluminum Soundcore’s new Motion speakers are tough little portables with hi-res sound Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update The best Bluetooth speakers for 2023: Marshall, Sonos, JBL, and more Skullcandy’s new Bluetooth speaker lineup boasts big battery life for $30 to $80 Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Audio / Video Klipsch Gig XXL Klipsch Party speakers -- powerful and often colorfully lit portable Bluetooth loudspeakers -- have been a growing category for several years. In fact, we've seen a lot of the big brands in audio -- like Sony, JBL, and LG -- getting in on the act with a variety of models and prices. But the way you can really tell that this is no longer a flavor-of-the-month trend is that Klipsch is now a player too.
Audio / Video Sony has been working hard to compete with JBL on the party speaker front, and the company's latest effort, the $649 SRS-XV800, shows that the two rivals are largely in agreement regarding what these block-rocking speakers should have. It joins Sony's party flagship, the Sony SRS-XV900.
Like the similar JBL Partybox 710, the SRS-XV800 has its own wheels and carry handle so you don't need to lug around its total weight when there's a flat surface to roll on. It also has a customizable, music-synced light show that can be tweaked further through the Sony Fiestable app. Finally, no party speaker would be complete without a bit of water resistance for when things get crazy (IPX4) and dual audio input jacks for a karaoke mic and a guitar.
Audio / Video No, the iconic Danish audio company Bang & Olufsen (B&O) does not refer to its new Beosound A5 portable speaker as a picnic basket, but one look at the photos and the comparison becomes unavoidable. Still, picnic basket looks or not, the A5 packs an impressive array of design and technology, which given its starting price of $1,049, you'd hope would be the case. You can buy the Beosound A5 starting April 27 in stores and online at bang-olufsen.com.
B&O says the A5, which comes in two colors (natural aluminum/light oak and black aluminum/dark oak), is the result of a collaboration with the Danish-Italian design team, GamFratesi. It's got an IP65 rating for dust and water resistance, and most of the parts -- including the exterior grilles and the handle -- can be easily replaced or swapped out. As part of B&O's Mozart family of products, even the A5's communication module can be upgraded over time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
