Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Tribit StormBox Micro review: River-tested, ears-approved By Nick Woodard Close $49.99 IP67 weather resistance rating Exceptional Bluetooth range Good sound quality Lightweight, portable design Boring aesthetic Battery could be better A series of events happened in near-perfect succession: One weekend, I rediscovered my love of river floating, a relaxing, socially distant activity that shines as one of the more enjoyable things to do on a warm summer Sunday afternoon. The key ingredient missing was good, easy-listening music. I had Bluetooth speakers, but none that I would confidently take near the water.
Out of the box Design Features Audio quality Our take So, the next week, when my editor told me I’d be editing the $50 Tribit StormBox Micro portable Bluetooth speaker, I couldn’t wait to get started.
Out of the box The packaging, much like the speaker itself, is quite small. Accordingly, the contents of said packaging are minimal; there’s the StormBox Micro, a USB-C charging cable, and a quick start guide. That’s essentially it, and honestly that’s all you really need.
Nick Woodard/Digital Trends The setup process is almost nonexistent. Simply power the speaker on via the button on the side of the Micro, hold the Bluetooth button right next to it for two seconds, and the Micro will enter pairing mode. From there, you know the drill: Find the speaker in your device’s Bluetooth settings, make the connection, and start enjoying your music.
I put the Micro at one end of my backyard and went as far away as my property would let me, and the Micro continued to pump out tunes without a glitch.
The StormBox Micro comes with Bluetooth 5 tech, and Tribit claims it supports a 100-foot range. While I can’t confirm that exact number, I can say the range is impressive. I put the Micro at one end of my backyard and went as far away as my property would let me, and the Micro continued to pump out tunes without a glitch.
Design Stop my if I’ve said this before, but the StormBox Micro is small. The square-shaped speaker is 3.87 by 3.87 inches around, and about 1.4 inches tall. It weighs about 10 ounces, which to put into perspective, is heavier than your standard smartphone but no bulkier than an overstuffed wallet. In other words, the dimensions of the Micro scream portability.
Nick Woodard/Digital Trends The aesthetic of the Micro isn’t great. In fact, I’d say it’s downright boring, with a ridged mesh cover across the top and Tribit’s logo sitting squarely in the middle. That said, I’d also say the aesthetic shouldn’t matter to most people interested in this speaker. You should be more focused on its durability, and the Micro does feel like it can take a beating. And from my experience, it can. I dropped it as I was traversing a steep bankside on my way down to the river, but I was able to retrieve it, dust it off, and continue jamming out like nothing happened.
There are three controls on the top of the speaker: Volume up, volume down, and a multi-function button. The volume buttons do what you think they would, and the multi-function button can pause and skip tracks, activate your smart assistant, or navigate phone calls. Yes, you can answer, reject, and toggle between two different phone calls on this $50 Bluetooth speaker.
The Micro also has a tear-resistant strap that Tribit says you can use to attach the speaker to your bike or backpack. It’s a little small to be universally useful, but it is flexible and I looped it through a strap on my hiking backpack without issue. To be clear, I did not use the Micro while hiking. Please, don’t be the person who blasts Cardi B while hiking.
Features For most people, this is going to be the most important part of this review. The fact of the matter is, there’s an endless number of Bluetooth speakers you can buy, many of which will provide you with pleasantly decent sound for a similar price. But when you search for something that can handle the elements and take on the constant grind of an outdoor lifestyle for hours on end, the options narrow dramatically.
Nick Woodard/Digital Trends The StormBox Micro has an IP67 weather-resistance rating , which protects it against dust and being submerged in up to a meter of water. To test the limits of this speaker, I took the Micro out on the river with a few friends. It sat tethered to a rope on the edge of our raft, consistently taking on water as we paddled away from rocks and pointy sticks. I stopped short of dropping the Micro underwater, because I had concerns both about the buoyancy of the speaker and the depth of the river, but it got thoroughly soaked and didn’t skip a beat during our float.
You’re going to want to keep that USB-C charging cable handy for a multi-day camping trip, but the Micro has just the right amount of juice for a full day of fun.
The Micro also has a claimed eight hours of battery life, which is decent for a speaker of this size. The Micro ended up providing us constant music for two consecutive floating trips and the barbeque that ensued afterward. You’re going to want to keep that USB-C charging cable handy for a multi-day camping trip, but the Micro has just the right amount of juice for a full day of fun.
Audio quality Look, I’m not going to tell you that the Micro is capable of things that are physically improbable for a speaker its size. If you’re looking for larger than life sound, try the Ultimate Ears Hyperboom.
 If you’re after more high-fidelity sound while maintaining some weather resistance, try the Marshall Emberton or even the Sonos Move.
Nick Woodard/Digital Trends If you’re searching for a pocket-sized speaker that can play louder (and clearer) than it seems possible for something so small, then you’ve come to the right place. The Micro delivers decent bass, especially for its size, though it won’t rattle your raft. It sounds reasonably clear, and it doesn’t distort at high volumes. Speaking of high volumes, this may not be the speaker of choice for a high-octane house party. But did we bump some Beastie Boys or Zac Brown Band every time we passed onlookers on the banks of the river? You bet your Bluetooth we did.
The sweetest part of the Micro’s sound capability, to me, is its ability to pair with another Micro to create a stereo soundstage. This stereo mode — or Party Mode, as Tribit calls it — is enabled after you hold both your Micro’s Bluetooth buttons together simultaneously for five seconds. The result significantly improves the audio I mentioned above, increasing the volume and bass capabilities twofold. It’s the way music was meant to be heard, after all, and I think a setup like this would be far more ideal for a backyard hangout or a weekend camping at the lake. The only downside is that it’s just going to cost you twice as much.
To my surprise, it’s actually fairly decent for phone calls, if you find yourself needing that feature. The Micro’s microphone is not great, but I wouldn’t expect it to be anyways. In a nutshell, this isn’t a speaker meant for taking calls, but you can do it effectively if you need to. That’s more than we could say for the Marshall Emberton.
Our take The StormBox Micro doesn’t oversell itself. It seems to know the kind of consumer it’s for, and it checks all the necessary boxes. It’s durable, it sounds good, and it’s remarkably affordable for what it offers.
Are there better alternatives? The $100 UE Wonderboom has better battery life at 10 hours, but a worse weather resistance rating (IPX7). The same goes for the $100 JBL Flip 4 , which has 12 hours of battery life and an IPX7 rating. Does more battery but less protection justify doubling the cost of the Micro? I’d say it depends entirely on what you’re using your Bluetooth speaker for. The new river bum in me would opt for better resistance against the elements.
How long will it last? Tribit offers an 18-month replacement warranty, 30-day money-back guarantee, and lifetime support for the product. Combined with an IP67 weather-resistance rating, the StormBox Micro doesn’t seem likely to fail anytime soon.
Should you buy it? Yes. There are Bluetooth speakers out there with better sound and improved battery, but for a $50 package that includes excellent weather resistance, good sound, and convenient portability, the StormBox Micro is an impressive value.
Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Speakers Wireless & Bluetooth Speaker Reviews Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
