Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Ultimate Ears Wonderboom 3: still a solid buy despite only minor improvements By Jason Schneider Close $100.00 Excellent durability Light and portable Balanced, 360-degree sound Affordable price point Somewhat lacking in bass Not as slim as other competitors Some minor connectivity issues Ultimate Ears (UE) names all of its Bluetooth speakers with an emphasis on power and bass: Boom, Megaboom , Hyperboom , and now the latest installment, the Wonderboom 3.
 The tricky thing is that the “boom” isn’t really all that impressive in the third-generation small-format speaker. Built in a cylindrical shape with dual 40-millimeter active drivers positioned to deliver 360-degree sound, the $100 Wonderboom 3 does a nice job of filling a space, ensuring that no one sitting around your campfire or on your beach towel will be out of directional earshot. However, the bass isn’t exactly as full and rich as the “Wonderboom” name would imply.
Design: bold and loud Sound quality: good, but lacking punch Durability: truly tank-like What’s new: a few lackluster additions Verdict: still a solid buy The third generation of the Wonderboom series brings marginally extended battery life (14 advertised hours over the second generation’s 13), plus an updated Bluetooth protocol for extended range. Ultimate Ears is also putting an emphasis on the environment by using green and recycled materials in this new build.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I was excited to see and hear the improvements on the Wonderboom 3 because the Wonderboom 2 is, for all intents and purposes, one of my favorite small-format Bluetooth speakers on the market. Ultimate Ears always does a nice job on build quality, durability, and right-down-the-middle audio response. UE kindly offered me a pair of Wonderboom 3 speakers in “Performance Blue” to test and so I ran them through their paces for a week of work, play, and hanging on the beach. Read on to see if the Wonderboom 3 is the right Bluetooth speaker for you.
Marshall’s latest Bluetooth speaker has four drivers for 360 sound Sony expands its X-Series with 3 new go-anywhere speakers This is the best Bluetooth speaker under $100 you can buy right now Design: bold and loud Ultimate Ears takes a page out of JBL’s book, putting a strong emphasis on loud colors and sporty accents for its Bluetooth speaker range. The Wonderboom 3 brings four new colors: Hyper Pink, Active Black, the vexingly named Joyous Bright (which is really just gray), and the color I received: Performance Blue. But the main color is really only part of the story — Ultimate Ears always emblazons its portable speakers with loud, contrastingly colored plus/minus volume buttons and accents.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Wonderboom 3 certainly has a distinctive look, with a shape consumers will find similar to smart speakers (particularly the Homepod Mini ). This rounded, canister-style build is pretty cool to look at, and sits quite nicely on a table or a picnic blanket, but I can’t help but think it’s a tad inconvenient for thinner backpack pockets. Take the Bose SoundLink Micro or the JBL Clip speakers, for instance: These enclosures can be laid flat, so they’ll fit nicely in the front pocket of a bag or even in your back pocket in a pinch. So, while the Wonderboom 3 is certainly portable, it’s not the most convenient carry.
Sound quality: good, but lacking punch I loved the sound quality of the Wonderboom 2 and the Wonderboom 3 has a virtually identical audio performance to my ears. So if you liked the second generation, you’ll like this one. If you haven’t experienced the Wonderboom 2, I can sum it up in a few words: Tuned for balanced music. The Wonderboom 3 brings just enough bass to drive a pop or Top 40 mix without blowing out the bottom registers and burying the detail in the mids and highs.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sound quality is, in many ways, a subjective point. The JBL Clip line always pushes bass more than I’m expecting, and Bose’s comparable SoundLink Micro offers a polish that I like. While the Wonderboom 3 sounds full and balanced, it does seem to a lack a bit of low-end power compared to what I’m used to. This isn’t necessarily a bad thing; for those who listen to podcasts or more vocal-heavy music, the Wonderboom 3 will perform well, but if you want the loudest bass around, you want necessarily get it here.
One thing that Ultimate Ears does well with its Bluetooth speakers is to provide a one-touch button (a small tree icon on the bottom) that kicks the speaker into an “outdoor mode.” This setting boosts the bass a little and pushes the overhead to a slightly louder volume — 87 decibels, specifically, as opposed to the normal mode’s 86 dB.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Ultimate Ears also advertises a pairing mode that allows you to pair two Wonderboom 3 speakers together and play source audio as a stereo image (or doubled up playing the same audio) from one device. This goes a long way toward spreading the sound, widening the soundstage, and juicing the volume for bigger gatherings. True stereo mode provides a really traditional experience — as if you’ve got a pair of bookshelf speakers — and I really enjoyed working on a laptop with the Wonderbooms in this mode. But, if you’re just looking to double the sound and disperse speakers around a space, it’ll do that, too.
I did run into some Bluetooth problems when pairing my two Wonderboom 3 speakers together. The user guide prompts you to press both center buttons on two speakers, but doesn’t specify that you need to first hold one, and then press the other (though the user guide website is a bit more thorough). When I attempted this the first time, it unpaired both speakers entirely from my device and I had to re-pair them to get it to work. From there, it worked as expected, but considering there’s no app support for the Wonderboom series, I can’t help but think the average user will find some minor frustrations with this process.
Durability: truly tank-like One thing that’s quite impressive about the Wonderboom 3 is just how durable it is. Ultimate Ears clocks the water and dust resistance at IP67 — meaning the Wonderboom 3 is nearly waterproof and can handle dust and debris without any problems. This makes it the perfect companion for a beach day, a camping trip, or even a quick shower. Ultimate Ears also promises that listeners can submerge the speaker for 30 minutes. Oh, and it also floats, so if you drop it in the pool, you’ll still be rocking — just make sure you give it a thorough rinse under fresh water when you’re done with your adventures.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Ultimate Ears ups the ante even further by adding lab-tested drop resistance to the fold. According to the UE site, you can drop your speaker on hard surfaces from up to 5 feet and expect it to keep on chugging. While most speakers in this class feature rugged rubber bumpers and durable shell grilles, the Wonderboom 3 is one of the few that puts its drop-resistance promises where its mouth is. In practice, I brought one of my Wonderboom 3s to the beach for a full afternoon of sand and sun, and the other one on a long hike in the rain, and both look just as new as they did when I unboxed them.
What’s new: a few lackluster additions While most of my above feedback is largely positive, one of the most disappointing factors about the Wonderboom 3 is just how little has been updated. While it’s perhaps a bit overzealous to hold a consumer electronics brand to a certain standard of improvements for a new generation, I can’t help but think more substantial updates could have made my write-up nearly superlative.
Image used with permission by copyright holder On paper, the improvements come in three key places. First, Ultimate Ears is manufacturing the Wonderboom 3 with 100% recycled polyester fabric and 31% consumer-recycled plastic from previous electronics. This is an important choice in an ever-growing world of e-waste, but doesn’t exactly improve the day-to-day experience.
The battery life has also increased, but only by literally 1 hour. In my tests, my Wonderbooms were even trending closer to 13 hours rather than 14 (in line with the Wonderboom 2), but your mileage will certainly vary. I’d honestly consider the battery life the same between the two.
There’s also an improved Bluetooth range — 40 meters compared to the Wonderboom 2’s 30-or-so meters. Again, this is an objectively positive improvement, but how many situations are listeners going to be in where 30 meters isn’t enough, but 40 is? All in all, if you can find the Wonderboom 2 for a cheaper, refurbished price, it might be a good way to get 90% of the way there for less money.
Verdict: still a solid buy The Wonderboom series remains a reliable, small-format Bluetooth speaker, with its sights set on listeners on the go. The Wonderboom 3 makes some marginal improvements over its predecessor, but still retains its balanced, music-focused sound, top-tier durability, sporty design, and solid performance. If you’re in the market for even a couple of the priorities listed above, the Wonderboom 3 will fit the bill.
Editors' Recommendations UE’s Epicboom is a powerful, portable, pool-proof speaker UE refreshes its Wonderboom waterproof speaker with longer battery life, new colors The Sonos Roam just put all other portable speakers on notice Best Cyber Monday Portable Bluetooth Speaker Deals: Bose, JBL, and Ultimate Ears Ultimate Ears’ Wonderboom 2 Bluetooth speaker is a super summer sequel Product Reviews Speaker Reviews Audio / Video If you've been in the market for a Bluetooth speaker, but you can't quite seem to find one with the looks you like, Ultimate Ears has a new solution for you. On Sunday, March 3, the company announced a service it calls myBoom Studio, allowing buyers to customize the looks of its Boom 3 speakers for a small premium.
The new service allows you to pick between thousands of different colors, offering choices for the speaker fabric, end caps, spine, and even custom engraving a word or phrase onto the back of the speaker for you.
“Our speakers have always reflected the unique styles of our listeners, but up until today, our fans were limited with the color and design options we made available to them,” said Charlotte Johs, general manager of Ultimate Ears, in a press release. “With myBOOM 3, we’ve created this enjoyable and unique design studio where music enthusiasts can show their creativity and give their favorite Ultimate Ears BOOM 3 speaker a truly personalized look and feel.” Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
