Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Google Nest Mini (2nd Gen) review: Even faster, even smarter By Erika Rawes Close $49.00 Quick responses Adjusts sound based on background noise Eco-friendly materials Affordable price Max volume could be louder Same look as the previous model The Nest Mini (2nd Gen) is Google’s newest Mini Speaker. Released on October 22, 2019, the Nest Mini features an assortment of improvements, like better sound, faster processing, and much more, to deliver a better experience for the user than its predecessor. Similar to its predecessor, it’s a wonderful entry if you’re looking to finally get on board with a smart home — supplementing Google’s lineup with previous devices like the Google Home Mini and Google Home Max.
 The company’s latest smart speaker is the Nest Audio , which currently sits in the middle of its lineup at $100 and offers a substantially more robust audio performance.
Same look, but few design improvements Button controls, sensors, and ports Better sound, but when you put it next to the Echo Dot… A Faster Assistant Try these new features Our take What’s interesting is that Google is still selling its predecessor, the Google Home Mini for $49. However, if you craving for something with more substance, consider Google’s current smart displays — the Google Nest Hub (2nd Gen) and Nest Hub Max.
 We tested out the Nest Mini to see how it stacks up against the rest of the pint-sized smart speaker pack.
Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? Google’s Nest Aware service is getting more expensive The most common Google Nest Mini problems and how to fix them Same look, but few design improvements The Nest Mini looks almost identical to the Google Home Mini. It’s 1.65 inches tall and 3.85 inches in diameter, and it has a fabric design and the same rounded shape. The Nest Mini comes in four color choices: Chalk, charcoal, coral, and a new sky color. We received the chalk color for our review.
John Velasco / Digital Trends The new Mini has some improvements in design over its predecessor. Although you may not notice much difference at first glance, the differences become more apparent during the setup process. For instance, there’s a small cutout for a screw on the back of the device that allows you to mount it on a wall. The top fabric portion of the Nest Mini is made from 100% recycled plastic, while the external enclosure is comprised of at least 35% post-consumer recycled plastic. The Nest Mini is slightly heavier than the Home Mini (181 grams versus 173 grams), and you can feel the quality of the craftsmanship when you hold the Nest Mini in your hand.
Button controls, sensors, and ports The Mini is powered by a 15-watt power adapter connected to a DC power jack, a change from the former’s standard Micro USB connection. Even though it would’ve been ideal to get USB-C, given that it’s unlikely for the Nest Mini to be moved frequently, it’s perfectly alright for Google deciding to go with a proprietary connection. There’s no 3.5mm audio jack to connect an external speaker, but there is Bluetooth support.
Erika Rawes/Digital Trends The Mini still has a microphone-off slider switch on the side, so you can disable the microphone anytime. The volume controls are capacitive touch buttons, but they’re now located on the sides of the device — with accompanying embedded LEDs to indicate their placements. When you touch each side of the device, the volume goes up or down.
Manually controlling the volume isn’t all that necessary with the Nest Mini though, as the device automatically adjusts its volume based on the background noise in the room. We noticed when there was a lot of conversation or when TV was playing, the Nest Mini would produce louder music and responses than when the room was completely quiet.
Better sound, but when you put it next to the Echo Dot… The Nest Mini has 360-degree sound and the same size (40mm) speaker driver as the Home Mini. However, with the Nest Mini, Google made updates to the audio tuning software that help to improve the sound quality. It’s supposed to have two times stronger bass without compromising on sound clarity.
John Velasco / Digital Trends When we listened to the same songs on full volume, one after another on the Nest Mini and on the Echo Dot 3rd generation (which has a 1.6-inch driver), there was no doubt the Echo Dot 3rd gen had louder sound and stronger bass. The Nest Mini’s sound was clearer though, and we could hear every layer of the music — clear mid tones, high tones, and bass.
When it comes to voice detection, the Nest Mini is top-notch. It hears commands even in the noisiest of situations, and we feel it outperforms the Echo Dot 3 in this area in spite of the fact that the Dot has four far-field microphones and the Nest Mini only has three.
A Faster Assistant Google added a machine learning chip with up to one TeraOPS of processing power to Nest Mini, which allows the device to process commands locally. We absolutely noticed a difference in the response time, and in the quality of the Mini’s responses.
John Velasco / Digital Trends It quickly answers specific questions like, “How much will it cost to remodel my kitchen?” and then it listens for and immediately responds to follow up questions like, “How long will it take to remodel my kitchen?” The answers it provides are becoming more and more useful, and also, more detailed.
Try these new features Google continues to add more and more features to its home devices. The Nest Mini can make free phone calls via Google Duo (it basically acts as a home phone) and you can use it as an intercom to call other Google/Nest speakers in the home.
Additionally, you can take advantage of stream transfer, and move content (music, podcasts, etc.) from your Mini to other compatible devices with your voice. Google Nest speakers can now control more than 30,000 different smart home devices, you can have the Nest Mini speak multiple languages , and so much more.
Enhanced Voice Match support Did you know Google Assistant can deliver personalized information to multiple people in the home? Google Assistant is now capable of supporting up to six people’s voices with Voice Match on a smart speaker or display, so that you only get relevant details that pertain to you.
Adjusting “Hey Google” sensitivity In busier or noisier areas, it’s possible that Google Assistant can be initiated by accident. If you want to adjust the sensitivity whenever the wake phrase “Hey Google” is spoken, you can now do it through the Google Home app.
Washing your hands It’s more critical than ever before to ensure you wash your hands properly, especially with the pandemic continuing to spread. The Nest Mini offers a brand new feature to help out kids. You simply say, “Hey Google, help me wash my hands,” and from there, it’ll play a tune for 20 seconds to encourage adequate time for washing hands.
Find your keys Isn’t it annoying when you’ve misplaced your keys somewhere at home while running late to an appointment? Your Google Nest Mini can help you track them down, if you’re using one of Tile’s Bluetooth trackers. In order to track them down, you simply just say, “Hey Google, where are my keys?” From there, Google Assistant will tell its last known location.
Cooking dishes at home Having trouble figuring out what to cook? With Google Assistant, you can get some ideas with the ingredients you already have at home. You can simply say, “Hey Google, what can I make using flour, lemon, and sugar?” Our take We were a bit surprised that Google waited so long to update its Mini speaker, yet it didn’t make any drastic changes to the device’s overall appearance. In part, that’s because they didn’t want to fix what wasn’t broken. Google made changes to the Mini only where needed, maintaining the affordable price, without compromising on design quality.
Is there a better alternative? It depends. Some people may prefer the Echo Dot 4th Gen (retails for $50) or the Echo Dot 4th Gen with LED Clock (retails for $60), simply because they prefer Amazon’s assistant Alexa or the Amazon Alexa app. Some people feel the Google Home app is not as intuitive and user-friendly as the Alexa app. Also, Amazon’s Echo Dot speakers include a 3.5 mm audio output jack, while the Nest Mini doesn’t offer one.
But as of right now, the Nest Mini brings a faster and smarter assistant. Yes, the Echo Dot comes with a marginally better app and more options (more speaker choices, more smart home product compatibility, compatibility with Apple Music, etc.), but the Nest Mini still has a lot to offer for those who enjoy Google Home devices. It’s $49 online , which surprisingly is the same current selling price of the Google Home Mini ($39). It’s an obvious decision to invest in the newer Nest Mini.
Want more options? Check out our favorite smart speakers of 2019.
How long will it last? Durability and longevity are areas where Google Nest speakers tend to thrive. Historically, Google routinely makes landmark updates to its assistant than to its smart speakers, and this allows customers to feel confident knowing their devices won’t immediately become obsolete because they’ll be replaced by an updated version a few months later.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you want a powerful, fast, and attractive smart speaker for an affordable price, you won’t be disappointed with the Nest Mini.
Editors' Recommendations Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Google Home adds support for Nest Cam Indoor Your Google smart home devices just got a lot less talkative Sonos One vs. Google Nest Audio: which is the best smart speaker? Google Google Nest Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Speaker Reviews Smart Home Google has officially wrapped up its first wave of Matter updates by bringing the interoperability feature to Nest and Android devices. If you own products in these lineups, you’ll now be able to quickly connect them to other Matter-enabled products.
The rollout happened quietly throughout December, with the original Google Home speaker, Google Home Mini, Nest Mini, Nest Audio, Nest Hub (1st Gen), Nest Hub (2nd Gen), Nest Hub Max, and the Nest Wi-Fi Pro all receiving the update. You’ll also benefit from Fast Pair on Android, allowing you to quickly sync Matter devices to your home network. All updates happened automatically (so long as you’re running the latest firmware).
Smart Home Smart speakers come in many sizes, and pitting the Amazon Echo Dot (now on the fifth generation) vs. the Nest Mini (currently on the second version) compares some of the smallest available. These tiny speakers are still loud enough to play music or perform other audio functions for people nearby, and they can make great desktop companions or even smart alarm clocks in some cases.
Which is the best? Despite their diminutive sizes, these little speakers have a lot of differences, starting with their design. Let’s take a look.
Design Smart Home Google’s Nest line of products (an evolution from the previous Google Home brand after Google purchased Nest) incorporates a variety of smart devices, all designed to work under the Home app and integrate easily with each other. If you’re a fan of Google or frequently use Google Assistant, this is a great smart home ecosystem to invest in, and thanks to tech like Matter, Nest is due to become even more compatible with other platforms in the future.
So, where should you begin in the Nest world? With our guide to all the Nest products, of course! Here are all available Nest models, what they do, and what you should know about them.
Speakers Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
