Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sonos Beam vs. Sonos Arc: which soundbar should you buy? By Michael Bizzaco Close When it comes to home audio, Sonos is the kind of go-to name that is backed by years of delivering phenomenal sound quality, intuitive features, and wire-free listening. From the company’s smallest wireless speakers like the Sonos Roam to its most monolithic systems , the Sonos experience is buttressed by the amazing Sonos app (available for iOS and Android devices), a control center that grants access to a number of music streaming platforms, audio calibration tools, and much more.
Design and connections Setup Sound quality Features Price and warranty The verdict Sonos is also a force to be reckoned with in the home theater space. Today, we’ll be comparing the $499 Sonos Beam with the $899 Sonos Arc , two of the company’s soundbars that are built to deliver Dolby Atmos virtualization. Combine these soundbars with the formidable Sonos Sub and a set of rear speakers, such as Sonos’ latest game-changing, Dolby Atmos-capable Era 100 and 300 models , and you can build a serious surround system for your movies, TV, and immersive spatial audio music. But which soundbar to choose? Let’s dig in.
Check out our full reviews of both the Sonos Beam (Gen 2) and the Sonos Arc.
You Asked: Dolby Atmos and EDID, minimalist soundbars, and HDMI 2.1 The best TV brands of 2023: from LG to TCL, which should you buy? Samsung’s best Dolby Atmos soundbar system is $300 off today Design and connections Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos has always ensured that its products look as good as they sound, and whether you’re buying a Sonos One , a Sonos Amp , or a Sonos soundbar, whatever peripheral you purchase is going to look sleek and stylish.
The Sonos Beam (Gen 2) is available in black and white finishes, and measures 25.6 inches wide, 2.7 inches tall, and 3.9 inches from front to back. The second-gen Beam also carries over the same pill-shaped chassis from the previous iteration but ditches the fabric grille in favor of a perforated plastic shielding that covers the front driver array and wraps around to both sides of the back (with the middle of the backside relegated to the Beam’s inputs).
In terms of actual connections, the Beam keeps things simple, featuring just a DC power input, an Ethernet port, and an HDMI ARC/eARC port.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Sonos Arc , available in black and white, features a much wider and spherically-inclined build than the Beam, measuring 45 inches wide, 3.4 inches tall, and 5.5 inches from front to back. While the Arc can sit on top of a TV stand, be aware that the slightly taller chassis may interfere with the bottom of your TV screen.
Similar to the Beam, the Arc is equipped with an all-plastic grille that covers the entire front of the system and wraps around to the back. And in terms of connections, you’ll be working with the exact same setup as the Beam: a power connection, an Ethernet port, and an HDMI ARC/eARC port.
Speaking of that HDMI ARC/eARC port : seeing as both the Beam and Arc ditch HDMI switching (you won’t find any dedicated HDMI-in ports on either soundbar), if you’re dead-set on using eARC for Dolby Atmos, your TV must be Atmos-compatible , and any AV components (such as streaming devices or Blu-ray players) that you plan on experiencing Atmos with will all need to be connected to your TV’s HDMI inputs.
In terms of design, this is a great example of “different strokes for different folks.” The Beam will likely satisfy the vast majority of casual to elevated movie-watchers and gamers, while the Arc will satiate the heavy-hitting home theater diehards. Thus, let’s call this category a tie.
Winner: Tie Setup Sonos has an excellent track record when it comes to super-simple installation, and with the addition of near-field communication (NFC) for both the Beam and Arc, getting up and running couldn’t be easier. All you have to do is plug both soundbars in for power, download and launch the Sonos app on your mobile device, and, thanks to NFC, just tap your iOS device against the top of the soundbar to add it to your Sonos system.
Do note that we only called out iOS devices. Yes, you’ll be able to download the Sonos app and set up your soundbar using Android gear, but the process becomes a whole lot less seamless. For starters, that NFC capability isn’t going to work, requiring just a few more simple steps to add either soundbar to your Sonos network.
The real letdown though is missing out on the iOS-only Trueplay feature, which uses your iPhone or iPad’s microphones to calibrate your Sonos soundbar to your listening environment. While you can borrow someone else’s iPhone to use Trueplay (the settings will be saved to your network), it’s a bit of a pain to have to call in an extra device to do so.
Winner: Tie Sound quality Sonos When it comes to room-filling sound, both the Sono Beam and Sonos Arc set the bar nice and high when it comes to chart-topping performance.
The Sonos Beam is equipped with a single tweeter, four woofers (two front-firing, two curved and side-facing), and three passive radiators. As far as overall soundstaging goes, the Beam is near-perfect for most conventional listening spaces, including living rooms, entertainment dens, and even some larger bedrooms.
The mids and highs are well-balanced and bold, and there’s plenty of low-end detail, too (although some will still want to invest in a subwoofer like the Sonos Sub Mini ). Most importantly, the Beam’s dialogue audio is rendered clear and center-stage, which checks the box for one of the most important movie- and show-watching criteria.
The Beam does a great job at simulating Dolby Atmos virtualization: height-based audio for Atmos-encoded movies and shows. Keep in mind though, this isn’t a true Atmos system, and even though the Beam strives for the kind of immersion that something like a 5.1.2 arrangement delivers, it only gets so close.
But in terms of pure audio, how does the Beam stack up against the much larger Sonos Arc? Well for starters, the Arc rocks 11 powerful drivers (two of which are angled up for height-firing sound), three tweeters, and eight curved woofers. Just on paper, that’s a much heftier sound system, and in execution, the deliverables line up with the specs. The Arc provides the kind of earth-shattering sound that’ll make you question how a bar without a subwoofer can achieve this level of soundstaging.
The low end is rich and punchy, and the articulation for both mids and highs is wide but balanced. While the Beam does a great job at capturing the Sonos middle-man experience (wedged between the non-Atmos Sonos Ray and the prolific Sonos Arc), if you’re looking for as close to a true surround experience as possible (especially those of us eager for Atmos), and have the real estate to play with, the Arc is the sound you’re looking for.
Winner: Sonos Arc Features The Sonos Beam and Arc are far more than just your traditional soundbar. As part of the feature-rich Sonos lineup, you’ll be able to use the Sonos app to control and customize your listening experience with both speakers even further. This includes built-in music streaming capabilities from a number of different platforms (including Apple Music , Spotify, Tidal , and more), audio zoning (the ability to have a number of Sonos speakers play the same source, or have each speaker play a different source), and voice assistant support for both Alexa, Google Assistant, and Sonos’ own Voice Control feature.
Additionally, iOS users will be able to cast audio from a mobile device to both the Beam and Arc using AirPlay 2. And if you’re looking to add even more oomph to your surround-sound simulation, you can also use the app to add and link additional Sonos gear (including subwoofers and surround speakers) to the Beam and Arc, too.
Winner: Tie Price and warranty In terms of value, both the Beam and Arc are higher-priced soundbar offerings that aren’t exactly budget-friendly. The Sonos Beam (Gen 2) currently sells for $449 and includes a one-year limited warranty. The Sonos Arc is much more expensive, selling for $899, and comes with the same one-year guarantee.
Sure, the Sonos Arc delivers a much bigger audio experience than the Beam, but seeing as most folks will be happy with the room-filling sound and Atmos capabilities of the latter, we’re going to award a point to the Beam for this category.
Winner: Sonos Beam The verdict It’s a draw across the board for this session of audio warfare. If you’re in need of a solid soundbar that punches above its weight class, especially when it comes to Dolby Atmos, the Sonos Beam more than gets the job done. But if money is less of a concern and you’re looking for one of the most powerful sub-less soundbars on the market with room-filling Atmos sound, we wouldn’t think twice about pointing you toward the Sonos Arc.
One extra-comforting parting thought is that when you buy Sonos, whether big or small, you know that you’re investing in an audio product that will sound excellent for years.
Editors' Recommendations The best Dolby Atmos soundbars for 2023 Sonos One SL wireless smart speaker just got a rare discount AirPods vs AirPods Pro: Which Prime Day deal should you buy? Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy We love the Sennheiser Ambeo Max soundbar, and it’s $500 off today Sonos Speakers Versus Audio / Video What happens when a $2,600 Sonos system does battle with a $3,900 fire-breathing Dragon? You’re about to find out.
But first, an apology of sorts. This comparison has been a huge undertaking. Moving nine fairly heavy pieces all around our new studio, getting them hooked up, recalibrating them each time I moved them (more on that in a moment) has been a lot of work.
Audio / Video Roku TV is a smart TV platform and user interface that can be found on Roku’s first-party streaming devices and compatible QLED and LED TVs. Our focus today is on the latter, and fortunately some pretty awesome brands have signed their souls away to the Big R. As it stands, TCL is the kingpin of Roku-powered TVs, but depending on where you’re shopping, you’ll also be able to find some other noteworthy companies to grab a Roku TV from. These are mostly budget-friendly names like Hisense, Westinghouse and Roku themselves, but “budget-friendly” doesn’t translate to “low quality.” In fact, some of these Roku TVs are pretty dang great when it comes to things like HDR performance.
If you're looking for a sale, take a look at some of the best TV deals.
Audio / Video Dolby Labs has a new home theater technology called Dolby Atmos FlexConnect. The company says it will let people with a compatible TV place wireless speakers anywhere that's convenient, and the TV's built-in microphones will automatically calibrate them to work with the TV's speakers while ensuring the whole setup produces optimal sound. The technology will make its debut in the 2024 TCL X955 QD mini-LED 4K TV, but Dolby anticipates that other companies will also announce support for Dolby Atmos FlexConnect.
Because Dolby Atmos FlexConnect works wirelessly and uses a compatible TV's built-in hardware and software, you'll be able to set up a Dolby Atmos audio system that doesn't require a soundbar or AV receiver as its central unit and doesn't need an HDMI cable to send an audio signal to an external device.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
