Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sonos’ new Era 100 and Era 300 wireless speakers go all-in on spatial audio and Bluetooth By Simon Cohen Close Sonos has officially unveiled two new wireless smart speakers — the $249 Sonos Era 100 , and the $449 Sonos Era 300.
 While the Era 100 is effectively a new version of the aging Sonos One , which it replaces, the Era 300 is an entirely new type of speaker for the company, with six drivers (including an up-firing tweeter) and compatibility with spatial audio formats like Dolby Atmos.
A number of firsts Sonos Era 100 Sonos Era 300 The leaks pretty much nailed it.
 Both speakers will be available on March 28 in 26 countries including the U.S., Canada, Mexico, the U.K., Ireland, Germany, and Australia, with preorders beginning March 7.
Related: Sonos Era 100 and Era 300 first impressions: it’s all about immersion JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans Dolby Atmos FlexConnect could eliminate home theater soundbars and HDMI cables Sonos’ new search feature needs work Sonos says the Era name reflects the fact that the speakers mark a new era for the company, and that’s not just a marketing ploy — the Era 100 and 300 represent a significant departure from Sonos’ previous offerings in a number of ways.
The Sonos Era 100 (left) and Era 300.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends A number of firsts The Era 100 and 300 mark the first time that Sonos has included Bluetooth 5.0 connectivity in a non-portable speaker, letting you bypass Wi-Fi networks, as well as the Sonos app, for a quick, ad-hoc listening experience. This complements the speakers’ Apple AirPlay compatibility. Thanks to a USB-C port on the back of the devices, customers have the option of adding an auxiliary audio source like a turntable through the use of a $19 line-in adapter or the $39 combo adapter, which adds Ethernet. Until now, only the $549 Sonos Five included an aux-in port.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Both the Era 100 and 300 can use their onboard mics to do Sonos Trueplay tuning. Sonos calls this Quick Tuning, and it’s available to both iPhone and Android users from within the Sonos app, marking the first time that Android users will be able to enjoy Sonos’ room-tuning technology on the company’s non-portable speakers. iPhone users can still avail themselves of the more precise Trueplay technique that involves wandering around your room, waving your phone — Sonos now calls this Advanced Tuning.
Unlike the Sonos Move , which can also use its onboard mics for Trueplay, the Era series won’t automatically recalibrate themselves when you move them. If you decide to relocate your speakers, you’ll need re-tune them from within the app.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Speaking of the onboard mics, Sonos has declined to say whether or not it plans to sell “SL” versions of the Era Series. For some of its other voice-enabled speakers, SL versions omit the microphones — a choice designed to appeal to people who are uneasy with the idea that their devices might be used to listen to them all of the time. Given that the Era speakers are the first to offer physical mic switches (in addition to a touch control), Sonos may believe that SL versions are unnecessary.
The company has also finally decided to embrace modern Wi-Fi standards. Previous Sonos products were limited to very old protocols. The Sonos Ray, for instance, which launched in 2022, only supports 2.4 GHz 802.11a/b/g/n Wi-Fi connections. The Era series, by contrast, are much further along, with support for not only 2.4GHz and 5 GHz bands using 802.11a/b/g/n/ac, but also Wi-Fi 6, which should help with wireless reliability when you connect them to a Wi-Fi 6 or better router.
For the first time on a Sonos smart speaker, you won’t be able to use Google Assistant on the Era 100 or 300. Sonos says that’s because Google has changed the technical requirements for Google Assistant on third-party devices, but I suspect it may have just as much to do with the fact that these are the first voice-enabled products Sonos has launched since it won a patent lawsuit against Google.
 Sonos also seems to think that the ball is at least partially in Google’s court. “We remain hopeful that Google Assistant will be part of this ecosystem one day,” a Sonos spokesperson told Digital Trends via email, “but that’s really up to Google.” Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Amazon Alexa remains an option, as does the company’s own Sonos Voice Control.
 And the speakers will still be controllable from an existing Google Assistant-enabled Sonos smart speaker like the Sonos One or the Beam Gen 2.
From a design perspective, Sonos is sticking to its two principal color choices — black and white — with an all-plastic exterior shell and integrated grille. It’s very much a continuation of the design it used on both the portable Roam and the company’s entry-level Ray soundbar.
 Under that shell, however, Sonos has reduced its use of industrial adhesives by using more screws to fasten components together, which it says will make the speakers easier to disassemble and repair.
Both speakers also possess threaded mounting holes on their bottom panels, something the Sonos One and One SL were criticized for lacking when they launched.
Sonos Era 100 The Sonos Era 100 Sonos The Era 100 is similar in size to the Sonos One it replaces, but it stands about an inch taller and swaps the One’s rounded-square shape for an oval cylinder look. The key difference between the two products is that the Era 100 can reproduce stereo sound via a pair of angled tweeters. The Sonos One and its predecessor, the Play:1, were both mono speakers. The Era 100 also benefits from a larger midwoofer, which should let the speaker deliver more bass response, and new waveguides, which Sonos claims will produce a wider soundstage.
You’ll be able to use an Era 100 on its own, as part of a stereo pair with another Era 100, or as the surround speakers for a Sonos home theater setup when you have a Sonos Arc , Beam Gen 1 or 2, or Ray soundbar.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends On the top surface are some more changes: Sonos has redesigned its touch controls to make volume adjustments more intuitive by replacing separate volume up/down controls with a single continuous slider strip that runs nearly the speaker’s full width. Track-skipping controls now get their own dedicated touch areas instead of requiring swipe gestures, which could sometimes be tricky to perform. As with previous voice-enabled Sonos products, there’s the option to defeat the onboard microphone for privacy, but now it’s a physical switch located near the bottom of the speaker on the back panel, instead of a touch control.
Sonos will still sell its remaining inventory of the Sonos One and Sonos One SL. But after that, the company will only sell the Era 100.
Sonos Era 300 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Era 300, with its hourglass shape, is like no other Sonos speaker we’ve seen. Those deeply flared sides contain four of the speaker’s six drivers: two side-firing woofers mounted in the lower half of the shell and two side-firing mid-tweeters, which occupy similar positions in the top half. A third mid-tweeter fires sound directly toward the listener from the front grille, while a single, horn-loaded up-firing tweeter sits on top of the speaker to provide the overhead effects that have become the trademark of spatial audio formats like Dolby Atmos.
Sonos Dolby Atmos probably is best known as a 3D immersive surround-sound format for home theaters. Just like Sonos’ other non-portable speakers, a pair of Era 300s can be used as a set of home theater surrounds (if you combine them with a Sonos Arc or Sonos Beam Gen 2, they’ll supercharge your system with up to 7.1.4-channel sound). But Sonos is putting a big emphasis on the 300’s ability to unlock Dolby Atmos Music , which does for music what theatrical Atmos does for movies.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Used alone or as a stereo pair, the Era 300 can decode and play Dolby Atmos Music tracks from streaming music services. When full availability begins on March 28, it will work with Atmos Music content from Amazon Music Unlimited and Apple Music , with other services planned for the near future. Sonos has also said it is adding support for spatial audio tracks from Apple Music on its other Atmos-capable devices (the Arc and the Beam Gen 2) beginning March 28.
The Era 300 is the first non-soundbar Dolby Atmos speaker with a dedicated up-firing driver. Amazon’s Echo Studio and Apple’s HomePod Gen 2 both support Dolby Atmos for movies and music, but these speakers use digital signal processing (DSP) to virtualize Atmos’ height component.
Previous Next 1 9 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Before you ask: no, you can’t connect an Era 300 to a TV for Dolby Atmos sound. There’s no HDMI port, which is needed to transmit Atmos over a wired connection. Sonos feels that both the Arc and the Beam Gen 2 represent better options if you want to elevate the immersion of your TV’s sound system.
What also remains to be seen is whether Sonos will open the Era 100 and 300 to digital audio sources. At the moment, the company has characterized the USB-C port as an input for analog audio (and/or Ethernet if you buy the optional combo dongle that will be available), but in theory, it could also be used as a digital line-in from a phone, portable media player, or even a CD player.
In addition to the two dongles, Sonos has created wall mounts ( Era 100 , Era 300 ) and stands ( Era 100 , Era 300 ) to go with the new speakers that take advantage of the single/double threaded mounting holes on the bottom of each unit.
Editors' Recommendations Sonos Atmos vs. Nakamichi Dragon: beauty and the beast DTS Play-Fi wireless audio adds support for Dolby Atmos, DTS:X I had to try the Sonos Era 300 for myself and wasn’t ready for what happened Why Sonos Era 300 buyers should switch to Amazon Music Bluetooth on Sonos’ new Era speakers isn’t what you think – it’s better Sonos Speakers Tech News Audio / Video When you think about wireless music, one name comes to mind. Sonos. And unless you’re a diehard analog music fan who shuns anything digital, you’ve likely encountered the Sonos brand. It effectively pioneered and normalized the idea of multi-room, digital wireless audio, and it’s still the gold standard to beat.
Curious about what exactly Sonos does, and how it works in the same world that already includes Apple, Spotify, and even your old Technics turntable? Is Sonos right for you? Let's dig into it.
What is Sonos? Audio / Video It can be hard for brands to admit when they got something wrong -- especially when they’ve spent time, money, and customer trust on a message. But taking a sober second look at a previous strategy, particularly when customers are telling you it’s not what they want, can be a necessary, if painful step.
That’s where Sonos finds itself today. With the launch of the company’s newest wireless speakers — the $249 Sonos Era 100 and the $449 Sonos Era 300 — several previously held beliefs about what makes for a great home audio experience have been revised or tossed out entirely.
Audio / Video Sonos has launched its latest wireless multiroom smart speakers — the $249 Era 100 and $449 Era 300 — effectively rebooting the company's entry-level product. It marks the end of the Sonos One, and its midsize offering, which had been noticeably absent since the discontinuation of the Play:3 in 2018. We'll have reviews in due time, but I've spent a little bit of time with the new kit, and here are my first impressions.
I got a chance to hear both the Sonos Era 100 and 300 in action at a private launch event in New York City. The demo room was hardly an ideal spot from an acoustics point of view -- a wide and shallow shape and drapes slung on some walls, while others were built from highly reflective glass -- and yet I was able to get a sense of both speakers' potential.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
