Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sonos Era 100 and Era 300 first impressions: it’s all about immersion By Simon Cohen Close Sonos has launched its latest wireless multiroom smart speakers — the $249 Era 100 and $449 Era 300 — effectively rebooting the company’s entry-level product. It marks the end of the Sonos One, and its midsize offering, which had been noticeably absent since the discontinuation of the Play:3 in 2018. We’ll have reviews in due time, but I’ve spent a little bit of time with the new kit, and here are my first impressions.
I got a chance to hear both the Sonos Era 100 and 300 in action at a private launch event in New York City. The demo room was hardly an ideal spot from an acoustics point of view — a wide and shallow shape and drapes slung on some walls, while others were built from highly reflective glass — and yet I was able to get a sense of both speakers’ potential.
If I were to sum up Sonos’ unifying philosophy for the Era series in a single word, it would be “immersion.” One look at where the smart speaker market is today and it’s not hard to understand why immersion is the goal. Amazon’s $200 Echo Studio is a Dolby Atmos-capable smart speaker that can double as a soundbar when connected to the company’s Fire TV streamers, and Apple’s newly relaunched HomePod gen 2 follows an identical path, for $100 more.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends With competitors like these, the aging (and mono-only) Sonos One was looking a bit frumpy, and other than its soundbars, Sonos has had nothing to offer folks who want a little more from their wireless speakers.
I had to try the Sonos Era 300 for myself and wasn’t ready for what happened Why Sonos Era 300 buyers should switch to Amazon Music Bluetooth on Sonos’ new Era speakers isn’t what you think – it’s better For the Era 100, that means providing stereo sound from a single speaker. It’s not an easy task. Stereo sound depends on being able to send different information to your left and right ears, which is why stereo speakers usually come in pairs so you can create the necessary distance.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The only way to get there using the Era 100’s narrow enclosure is to angle two drivers away from each other, so they direct that left/right sound outward, and then back to the listener, perhaps taking advantage of any surfaces to bunce off of like walls.
From where I was sitting, I wouldn’t say that the Era 100 delivered strong stereo separation. But it definitely felt like it projected a wider soundstage than I’m used to with a single Sonos One. Also noticeable was the improved bass response, which felt weightier and more musical than the One. Since Sonos didn’t let us hear an Era 100 side-by-side with a One, these observations are purely what I could muster from memory.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends For the Era 300, Sonos gave us two demonstrations: using a pair of Era 300s as the rear surrounds for a Sonos Arc -based Dolby Atmos home theater, and using a single Era 300 for stereo and Dolby Atmos Music listening. Our movie clip was courtesy of the film Unbroken , which features a World War II American bombing run as seen from the bomber crews’ perspective. It’s a clip I’ve seen before, and there’s no doubt that the Sonos setup provided a powerfully emotional performance, putting me very much in the center of the action. How much of that was thanks to the Era 300 surrounds and how much was being produced by the Arc itself? That’s hard to say, but it’s obvious that the Era 300 makes for a potent addition to a Sonos home theater.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends I was more impressed by the audio-only demo, where we switched from standard two-channel stereo to Dolby Atmos Music, with samples from Lizzo’s About Damn Time and Finneas’ A Concert Six Months From Now.
 The stereo track sounded predictably good — Sonos really knows how to generate sound that is proportionally much bigger than the speaker it’s coming from — and the Atmos Music track demonstrated just how much bigger and immersive that sound can get when you include Atmos in the mix.
The Era 300 will work with spatial audio tracks from Amazon Music Unlimited, and when the speaker becomes available on March 28, Sonos will also add spatial audio support for Apple Music on all three of its Atmos-capable speakers (Era 300, Arc, and Beam Gen 2).
The lingering question I have about the Era 300 as a speaker for Dolby Atmos Music is the same question I have for Dolby Atmos Music when played through any sound system (as opposed to headphones or earbuds): given Atmos’ need for a target listening area to deliver its immersive soundstage, will people really take the time to sit and listen to Dolby Atmos Music? And if the answer is no, is the Era 300 still the right choice for folks who want a really great wireless speaker? I hope to answer that, and many other questions about using the Era 100 and 300, once the speakers are available on March 28.
Editors' Recommendations Sonos Atmos vs. Nakamichi Dragon: beauty and the beast Android users are about to lose a handy Sonos feature Sonos has always been expensive — but that doesn’t mean it’s overpriced Sonos CEO on Bluetooth epiphany: ‘you have to be humble enough to listen to customers’ Sonos’ new Era 100 and Era 300 wireless speakers go all-in on spatial audio and Bluetooth Features Sonos Speakers Audio / Video Sonos today sent out an email telling folks to "Get ready for a new era of sound." Get it? New "era?" Because that's exactly what's about to drop with the Era 100 and Era 300 speakers, which already have leaked in pretty good detail.
The countdown on the email points to something happening on Tuesday, March 7, and the email says to expect preorders then, too.
Audio / Video For years, Sonos has relentlessly championed the benefits of Wi-Fi audio. The company even ran a cheeky (and hilarious) campaign showing how annoying it can be to use Bluetooth, featuring pinging notifications and phone calls routinely interrupting what should have otherwise been enjoyable music-listening sessions. Times have changed, however, and not only has Sonos added Bluetooth to its two portable speakers (the Move and the Roam), but recent leaks suggest that it’s considering expanding support for Bluetooth into its main portfolio of powered speakers too, starting with the new Sonos Era 100 and Sonos Era 300.
This amounts to a tacit acknowledgment that Sonos may have been too zealous in its past refusal to adopt Bluetooth audio, and I can’t help but think that it might be time for another company to rethink its rejection of Bluetooth: Apple.
Audio / Video The leaks, hints, and other implications were all true. Sonos today unleashed a new soundbar, its own voice control service, and new colors for an existing speaker.
Sonos Ray is the new entry in the product line and the new least-expensive option in the company's home theater lineup. Sonos Voice Control — that's the official name — perhaps is the most intriguing of the three releases, if for no other reason than it's using a serious actor's intonations. (Or an actor's serious intonations. More on that in a minute.) And the portable Sonos Roam has some new colors on the way.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
