Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sonos CEO on Bluetooth epiphany: ‘you have to be humble enough to listen to customers’ By Simon Cohen Close It can be hard for brands to admit when they got something wrong — especially when they’ve spent time, money, and customer trust on a message. But taking a sober second look at a previous strategy, particularly when customers are telling you it’s not what they want, can be a necessary, if painful step.
That’s where Sonos finds itself today. With the launch of the company’s newest wireless speakers — the $249 Sonos Era 100 and the $449 Sonos Era 300 — several previously held beliefs about what makes for a great home audio experience have been revised or tossed out entirely.
A Bluetooth button features prominently on the Sonos Era 300.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Perhaps the biggest change has been a rethink of Bluetooth.
 In the past, Sonos hasn’t just refused to support the wireless technology that’s embedded in every single smartphone on the planet — it has openly mocked other companies’ Bluetooth speakers, most notably in a 2016 series of ads that featured the tagline “you’re better than this” — a reference to the ways in which Bluetooth speakers can undermine a listening experience.
As of March 7, the company has four Bluetooth-capable speakers, including the newly launched Era 100 and Era 300, plus the existing Roam and Move portable speakers. Why the change? “Bluetooth has gotten better,” Sonos CEO Patrick Spence told me at the Era launch event in New York City. “It’s gotten more ubiquitous, but it’s also much more reliable than it used to be.” Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update Dolby Atmos FlexConnect could eliminate home theater soundbars and HDMI cables Skullcandy’s new Bluetooth speaker lineup boasts big battery life for $30 to $80 That may be true. But Sonos’ reluctance to embrace Bluetooth even long after it had proven itself to be a useful and reliable technology makes one suspect that there also was an ideological flavor to the company’s stance.
“We got a little religious over Wi-Fi versus Bluetooth,” Spence admits. He’s still a fan of Wi-Fi, the wireless tech that propelled the company to its current standing as the king of the whole-home multiroom audio experience, but it appears that he’s ready to set aside some preconceived notions about what it means to deliver that experience. “I think you have to be humble enough to listen to customers.” A USB-C port seen on the back of a Sonos Era 100.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends As an example of Sonos’ newfound humility, Spence points to the fact that the Era 100 and Era 300 have a USB-C port that can be used with optional dongles to pipe in external sources of audio, like a turntable.
The Era series aren’t the first Sonos speakers to do this — the Sonos Five (formerly the Play:5) has an analog input too. But now that these three speakers make up the mainline of the company’s in-home, music-focused products, it’s a big shift from the days when there were almost no external inputs in the Sonos universe.
Interestingly, now that Bluetooth is very much on the table for Sonos, there may even be an appetite to do more than simply allow Bluetooth connections to these speakers.
In 2021, the company took its first foray into better-than-CD-quality audio with support for 24-bit/48kHz lossless music from the streaming service Qobuz. Similar support arrived for Amazon Music later that year. So when I asked Spence if Sonos was willing to look at high-quality Bluetooth codecs , like LDAC or aptX Adaptive, which are capable of much higher audio quality than the currently supported AAC and SBC, I was surprised when he said he was open to it.
“There’s no religion other than, ‘Can we deliver a great experience?’” he said. Spence did express some doubt as to whether these codecs were reliable enough to maintain a high level of quality, but remains willing to implement them if they can be made to work. “It’s about the quality of that connection. That’s all that matters.” Sonos This willingness to reconsider the way Sonos products work extends into the company’s current thinking around the new Era 300. The speaker was designed primarily to offer an immersive music listening experience via its Dolby Atmos -compatible spatial audio architecture. It also works as a Dolby Atmos-enhancing surround speaker when used in conjunction with an Arc or a Beam Gen 2, but it doesn’t do TV-based Dolby Atmos on its own or in a stereo pair.
I pointed out that both Apple and Amazon’s Atmos-capable smart speakers (the Echo Studio and HomePod Gen 2 ) work as TV speakers (when paired with their respective streaming devices) and asked if Sonos might change course. “We haven’t seen a lot of people actually using [the HomePod] that way,” Spence said. “Most people are still picking up a soundbar instead.” Still, like the move toward ubiquitous Bluetooth, he’s willing to let Sonos users be the judge. “If customers are showing us that this is the way they want to enjoy home theater, we’ll figure out how to support it.” That shift could happen sooner than later. Spence said that he’s been thinking a lot about how to remove the HDMI cable from the company’s soundbars, “I’ve been pushing the team for a long time — I don’t want a wire to the soundbar at all. Let’s make it even easier.” Technical hurdles still remain and, once again, he underlined the importance of reliability, but it’s quite clear that Spence wants Sonos to be even better than it is now.
Editors' Recommendations Sonos Atmos vs. Nakamichi Dragon: beauty and the beast DTS Play-Fi wireless audio adds support for Dolby Atmos, DTS:X Six years in hell: My aging Sonos speakers have survived outside Android users are about to lose a handy Sonos feature Sonos could soon be the soundtrack for your next shopping trip Features Sonos Speakers Audio / Video Shortly after Sonos showed off its new wireless speakers -- the Era 100 and Era 300 -- the company quietly released a new version of the search feature that’s built into the Sonos app. Sonos says the new version (which is slowly rolling out) is a better overall search experience. And yet, it's a big departure from its normal search, which is now called "classic search," and I think it’s still very much a work in progress.
Sonos says that for now, the classic search isn't going away. But come April 25, everyone will have access to the new search. Here's what you can expect when you use it.
A service-first, service-only approach Audio / Video If you’re thinking of buying the new Sonos Era 300 — the company’s first smart speaker designed specifically for spatial audio with Dolby Atmos Music — and you’re not currently an Amazon Music subscriber, listen up: you definitely need to consider switching from whatever music streaming service you’re currently using.
Don’t worry, I’m not getting a kickback from Jeff Bezos for saying that. It’s a simple matter of compatibility and audio quality. And, unfortunately for services like Spotify, Apple Music, YouTube Music, and Tidal, none of those services can provide a speaker like the Era 300 with the same level of support as Amazon Music. At least, not for the immediate future.
Audio / Video It's been a long while since we saw a proper refresh of Sonos' wireless speakers. Not new soundbars. Not something portable. We're talking about the bread-and-butter of what made the company so popular in the first place. Wireless speakers that are simple to set up and play damned near anything you want.
And it just so happens we've got two new speakers on the way. The Sonos Era 100 and Sonos Era 300 effectively replace the aging Sonos One (released in October 2017, refreshed in 2019, and still available while supplies last) and the already-defunct Sonos Play:3, which was discontinued way back in 2018 after a seven-year run.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
