Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best smart home gadgets for spring 2023 By Jon Bitner Close Spring is in the air, bringing with it warmer weather and a whole lot of reasons to get back outside. However, it also comes with a few downsides – such as overactive allergies, increased yardwork, and plenty of muddy shoes strewn about your entryway. But if you’re trying to cut down on time spent doing chores this spring, there are plenty of great smart home gadgets to add to your house.
Here’s a look at four of the best smart home gadgets of spring 2023. Introducing these to your home is bound to reduce your weekly list of chores, giving you a chance to get outside and enjoy the sunshine and fresh air.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Blueair Blue Pure 311 Auto Air Purifier Mulitple colors Easy to clean prefilter Simple operation Not ideal for large rooms If you’re looking to battle all the allergens that arrive with spring, consider adding the Blueair 311 Auto Purifier to your home. Its outer cloth cover is available in four different colors and serves as a prefilter to capture pet fur and other large particulates. It's also easy to clean, and the interior HEPA filter does a great job of capturing all sorts of particles that are floating around your home.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Husqvarna 115H Robot Lawn Mower Rated for 0.4 acres Handles 30-degree inclines Good price Setup can be tricky They might not be as popular as air purifiers or robot vacuums, but robot lawn mowers have come a long way over the past few years. The Husqvarna Automower 115H is one of the best, as it’s built to the company’s high standards, is rated for use on up to 0.4 acres, and can tackle includes up to 30 degrees. It’s also reasonably priced compared to the competition, clocking in well below $1,000.
The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Best robot mops of 2023 Roborock Roborock S8 Pro Ultra Vacuum and mop Powerful smartphone app Striking design Expensive The latest and greatest Roborock launches in late April, but you can sign up for notifications for when it goes live. It won’t be cheap, but with the ability to both vacuum and mop in a single run and a docking station that holds about two months of dust before needing to be replaced, you can truly automate your floor cleaning routine. It also features a modern design and is available in both black and white to match your home décor.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos Era 300 Dolby Atmos Music-compatible Incredible, immersive sound Easy, fast room tuning Perfect as home theater surrounds Line-in for analog sources Bluetooth, AirPlay 2 No Google Assistant Of course, it’s almost impossible to automate all your household chores, but blasting out to music with the Sonos Era 300 makes even the most mundane tasks a bit more exciting. Aside from top-of-the-class audio performance, you’ll also get support for Alexa, allowing you to give voice commands to other smart home gadgets lingering around your house. If you don’t want to spend an arm and a leg, the Sonos One offers similar performance with a price tag that is a bit more approachable.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Best robot vacuum Black Friday deals: Save on Roomba, Shark, more The best video doorbells for 2023 This Shark robot vacuum just had its price slashed from $249 to $129 Appliances Best Products Robot Vacuums Speakers Smart Home If you're shopping for the best outdoor security cameras of 2023, you'll want to find something that's weatherproof, captures high-quality footage, and works well at night. It's also important to consider your budget and ongoing subscriptions that may be required to access premium features such as cloud saving and person detection.
Regardless of your budget, there's an outdoor security camera that'll fit your needs. From premium products crafted by Ring to budget-friendly options like those from Wyze, there are dozens of well-reviewed models that are perfect for protecting your home.
Smart Home Adding a robot vacuum to your home is a great way to automate your cleaning. These nifty devices will clean your floors with little to no manual input -- freeing up your time for more exciting endeavors. Some are even capable of emptying their own dustbin or pull double duty as a mop. Not all robot vacuums are created equal, however, and finding the best robot vacuums takes a bit of digging.
The first thing you'll need to do when searching for a robot vacuum is set a budget. Robot vacuums run the gamut from a few hundred bucks to well over $1,000. Many of the best robot vacuums cost at least $500, and going any lower could result in poor performance or the need to constantly interact with your device (such as to empty its dustbin, untangle it from furniture, or help it back to its dock).
Smart Home Using an air fryer is popular today, largely because the machines let us get the great taste and texture of fried foods without suffering through all of the healthy-ruining oils that come with them. As we've explored the best air fryers, however, we've come to the conclusion that not all air fryers are created equal. And we're not alone in this assessment, as customers consistently appreciate using some over others as well. One such customer-loved air fryer is the Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer. The best part about it? An early Black Friday deal at Best Buy sends this beloved air fryer down to $50 from $130, saving you $80. Tap the button below to check it out yourself or keep reading for more info.
Why you should buy the Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer The Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer cooks up to 6.5 pounds of food at a time over 1700W of power. There are nine preset options for popular foods like shrimp or fish, but the whole device is easily controlled by an intuitive touch panel. It's easy to clean your fingerprints off it, too, due to its stainless steel exterior and smooth-surfaced touch panel. Similarly, the interior basket and crisping tray are both dishwasher safe.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
