Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Echo Pop vs. HomePod mini: which is the best smart speaker? By Jon Bitner Close The Echo Pop and HomePod mini are radically different products. Both are smart speakers — allowing you to listen to music or chat with a voice assistant — but that’s about where the similarities end. Echo Pop is designed as an affordable, entry-level device while the HomePod mini clocks in at a hefty $100.
Pricing and design Sound quality Features and smart home connectivity Is the HomePod mini worth its hefty price tag? But is Apple’s HomePod mini worth the added expense? Or should shoppers stick with the cheaper Echo Pop? Here’s a look at the advantages of both smart speakers to help you decide.
Pricing and design Amazon / Amazon The Echo Pop costs $40 and is available in four different colors (lavender bloom, charcoal, glacier white, and midnight teal). It features a circular shape with a flat front speaker, along with an LED indicator light on the top of the unit. Behind the LED light is an assortment of buttons to help control the action. It’s a decent-looking device, and its small size means it’s easy to find a home for it on your nightstand or cramped desk. Amazon loves to discount the Echo Pop, and it’s not uncommon to see it listed for well below asking price.
The Apple HomePod mini costs $100 and is available in five colors (space gray, blue, yellow, white, and orange). It features a spherical shape, with a flat top that offers various indicator lights and touch controls. Its build quality is more robust than that of the Echo Pop, which is what you’d expect for a product more than twice as expensive. The HomePod mini doesn’t often see price cuts, and when it does, it’s typically only by a few bucks.
Sound quality Apple You won’t get house-filling sound out of the Echo Pop, as it’s designed for small spaces such as a bedroom or home office. Our Echo Pop review found that it doesn’t sound bad, but the “mids and highs get muddied” as you crank up the volume. In other words, this is ideal for background noise while you work or cook, instead of using it as a centerpiece of your sound system during a party. It uses a 1.95-inch front-firing speaker with lossless HD, which is just enough to give you an adequate listening experience.
The HomePod mini, on the other hand, is surprisingly great at producing clean sounds. It boasts a computational audio system to optimize its performance regardless of what it’s playing. Our HomePod mini review found that the S5 chip does an excellent job of producing crisp audio even as you turn up the volume.
Inside you’ll find a full-range driver and dual passive radiators, which are responsible for great sounds at high frequencies and deep, rich bass. And since it creates a 360-degree sound field, it’s better for filling a house with sound than the Echo Pop (which uses a front-firing speaker).
Features and smart home connectivity Murat Çorlu/Unsplash / Apple The Echo Pop works with Amazon Alexa , allowing you to ask the assistant questions to check up on the news, weather forecast, or your calendar. It can also sync with the rest of your Alexa-enabled products, including smart plugs, smart locks, and smart thermostats.
It’s a similar story for HomePod mini, though it works with Apple HomeKit instead of Alexa. HomeKit doesn’t have quite the same, sprawling catalog of products that Alexa does, but you’ll still find plenty of smart home gadgets that work with your HomePod mini. And with Siri onboard, you’ll have access to a robust smart assistant.
Is the HomePod mini worth its hefty price tag? Digital Trends If you’re shopping for a smart speaker that produces crisp sounds and can easily fill a room, the HomePod mini is worth every penny. Not only does it look and sound great, but its S5 chip ensures you’re getting the best possible audio out of every piece of content you listen to. And if your home is running any other HomeKit-enabled products, it becomes even more enticing.
The Echo Pop is a great smart speaker, but it’s simply not as well-rounded as the HomePod mini. Be sure to keep it in mind if you just want something for your office or kitchen, though remember that it won’t sound the best as you increase the volume. But for a cheap smart speaker, it remains one of the best options around.
Editors' Recommendations Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more The best smart home devices for 2023 Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? The best Amazon Alexa smart speakers The Amazon Echo Hub is almost the whole-home hub I’ve always wanted Amazon Apple Speakers Versus Smart Home With the Homepod mini being so accessible and the new HomePod earning rave reviews, HomeKit has started to grow in popularity. Sure, its catalog isn't quite as robust as that of Amazon Alexa or Google Home, but there's no denying the appeal of a premium, Apple-powered smart home. And while HomeKit is an incredibly secure platform, it's not perfect.
Whenever you give Siri and command or ask it a question, details about the request are sent to Apple. While Apple does its best to hide unique information about you, it still collects contact information, music preferences, smart home usage statistics, and more.
Smart Home Smart home devices have come a long way over the past few years. Walk into any home improvement store or supermarket, and you’re bound to find a wide variety of smart lights, smart locks, smart thermostats, and an assortment of other “smart” gadgets. But one often overlooked category is smart plugs – tiny devices that plug into your electrical outlet and give your “dumb” electronics the versatility of a modern smart home device.
Beyond giving you remote control of your outlets, many smart plugs allow you to set timers or monitor your electricity usage. This makes them surprisingly versatile while still carrying an affordable price tag. Plenty of big names (like Amazon and Wyze) are producing smart plugs, but they’re far from your only option. Here’s a closer look at the best smart plugs of 2023.
Smart Home If you want to upgrade your house into a smart-home, the first step is getting a hub that all your fancy new devices can connect to. Amazon's Echo devices are perfect for that. There are a lot of different options in the Echo line, such as smart speakers and smart displays. Choosing which model is best for you will come down to your available space and what you intend to use the device for. We've broken down every model and generation of the Echo that is currently on sale, so read on to find out which one is best for you.
Echo Pop — $25, was $40 The Echo Pop is definitely what you could call a "cute snack of an Echo device." Its small, semi-sphere body, low price, and four cute colors lend it to being in just about any home. Our Echo Pop review called it the perfect price for getting into Alexa. Furthermore it is great for small spaces and your bedroom will love the bonus Eero mesh inside. Oh, and if you're worried about privacy in the bedroom (you should be) there is an easy mic off button on the top. You'll also know when Alexa is listening because, as pictured above, the light bar at the top will turn blue once you've engaged Alexa. At 3.9 x 3.3 x 3.6 inches, it's the perfect gadget to spruce up your bedroom's smart gadget environment.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
