Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to factory reset an Echo Pop By Jon Bitner Close The Echo Pop is the latest (and most affordable) product to join the Amazon Echo family.
 Setting up the device is simple, and performing a factory reset is even easier. However, performing the task isn’t as straightforward as you’d expect.
How to factory reset an Echo Pop When should you factory reset your Echo Pop? Here’s a complete look at how to factory reset your Echo Pop, along with a few reasons to perform the irreversible operation.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Echo Pop Image used with permission by copyright holder How to factory reset an Echo Pop There are two different ways to reset your Echo Pop. If you want to perform a soft reset that keeps your smart home connections intact, you’ll simply need to hold the Volume Down and Volume Up buttons for 15 seconds. But if you want to perform a factory reset on your Echo Pop, here’s what you need to do.
Step 1: Ensure the device is plugged in. If it’s not responsive, try unplugging it and plugging it back in.
Step 2: Wait for the device to fully power on.
Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more Sponsored Black Friday Deal: Grab Eureka NEW400 wet-dry vac for cleaning all spills [Sponsored] Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Step 3: Hold the Volume Down and Microphone Off buttons for 25 seconds.
Step 4: The light bar will turn off, then turn back on. When this happens, the factory reset is complete.
Step 5: You can now go about setting up the Pop like a brand-new device.
Step 6: Keep in mind that a factory reset deletes all your personal information and any other connections saved to the device.
When should you factory reset your Echo Pop? Performing a factory reset on your Echo Pop is a great way to prepare the device for sale. If you’re listing it on eBay or giving it away to a family member, a factory reset will ensure none of your personal information is stored on the device.
You can also try performing a factory reset if your Echo Pop starts acting funny or is experiencing a bug that prevents it from working as intended. Before a factory reset, however, you should try the soft reset that can be performed by holding down both Volume buttons. You can also simply try unplugging the Pop and letting it sit for 10 seconds – then plugging it back in.
Whatever the reason, know that a factory reset cannot be reversed. Once the operation is performed, there’s no way to recover all the connections or other data that was wiped. If you’re no longer going to be using the Pop, consider heading over to your Amazon account and finding the Manage Your Content and Devices tab. From here, you can deregister the Pop from your profile.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more Amazon How-To Guides Speakers Smart Home Arlo has supported Apple HomeKit since 2019, allowing you to get it synced with popular devices such as HomePod and HomePod mini. The process is fairly standard but if you're new to the world of smart home platforms, there are a few steps that might give you trouble.
Here's a look at how to connect Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit, along with which cameras support the feature.
Smart Home Amazon Astro -- the adorable household robot from Amazon that's yet to see a public release -- is gaining a new family member today with the launch of Astro for Business. A pilot program for the homebot began last year, and it looks like the unique gadget is ready to go live following its success.
Astro for Business differs from the standard Amazon Astro in some big ways. For one, it's specifically designed to work as a smart security solution for small and medium-sized businesses. That means it's possible to do away with complex security systems and instead opt for this roving robot. The quirky product combines AI software with hardware such as a periscope camera to help prevent break-ins and quickly alert you if something goes awry.
Smart Home With hundreds of incredible products available, it can be intimidating to piece together a smart home. From smart displays and thermostats to smart light bulbs and video doorbells, not only are there tons of categories to browse, but each category is filled with highly reviewed products that can be difficult to distinguish from one another. If you’re in the market for a new smart home gadget or are just starting your smart home journey, there are tons of factors to consider.
If you need help navigating all the products, here’s a look at the best smart home devices of 2023 across a wide variety of categories. It’s hard to go wrong with products from big names like Ring, Arlo, Amazon, and Google, but if you need a bit more guidance, here are some of our top picks.
Voice assistant Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
