Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to fix an Echo Dot with clock display that isn’t working By Jon Bitner Close The Echo Dot with clock is one of the most popular gadgets in the Echo lineup. With an affordable price tag and full access to the Alexa voice assistant, the smart speaker is a great way to dip your toes into the world of smart homes and start automating your daily tasks. However, some users have reported issues with the Echo Dot with clock’s display.
How to fix the display on Echo Dot with clock Control your Echo Dot with clock display from the Alexa app Difficulty Duration Specifically, the display on the Echo Dot simply stops working – and it’s not immediately clear how to resolve the issue.
If the display on your Echo Dot with clock isn’t working, here’s everything you need to know.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to fix the display on Echo Dot with clock There are a few different reasons your display might not be working on your Echo Dot with clock. And depending on the reason, you’ll need to try a different troubleshooting method. Here are four easy ways to fix your display.
Step 1: The easiest fix is to simply unplug your Echo Dot with clock. Then, after about 30 seconds, plug it back in. With any luck, the bug will resolve itself with a power cycle and you’ll be able to see the display again.
Step 2: If that doesn’t work, you’ll want to make sure you’re using the correct power adapter. The one that came with your device is the only official power supply, and using a third-party product might not give your device enough juice to run the display.
Amazon Echo Show 8 is back down to its cheapest-ever price Echo Pop vs. HomePod mini: which is the best smart speaker? This Amazon Echo Show 8 deal cuts $60 off after Prime Day Step 3: Amazon gives you impressive control over the Echo Dot with clock’s display – including the option to turn it off.
 That means someone else in your household could have turned off the display without your knowledge. To verify that the display is on, you can simply say, “Hey Alexa , turn display on.” Step 4: Besides turning off the display, you can also adjust its brightness. If your display isn’t working, it’s possible the brightness is simply too low to detect. To fix this issue, say “Hey Alexa, set brightness to 10.” This will ramp up the brightness and make the clock visible in even the most well-lit of rooms.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Control your Echo Dot with clock display from the Alexa app If you’d rather deal with the Alexa app than with voice commands, there’s an easy way to check the status of your display. You’ll also find some other settings that can help you fix an unresponsive display.
Step 1: After opening the app, navigate to the Devices section.
Step 2: Select the Echo and Alexa submenu, then find and select your device.
Step 3: Here, you’ll find the LED Display menu. Click on this, and you’ll be able to see if your display is turned on or off, as well as make other adjustments to its appearance.
Editors' Recommendations Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? Which Amazon Echo should you buy? Here’s how to throw a killer Halloween party with your smart home The Amazon Echo Hub is almost the whole-home hub I’ve always wanted Amazon How-To Guides Speakers Smart Home We’re conditioned to associate a red ring on our devices with bad news. If you suddenly see one on an Alexa device like an Echo, it’s easy to start worrying. It’s even worse when you try to use Alexa, but find that the voice assistant isn’t responding as it should.
Smart Home If you want to upgrade your house into a smart-home, the first step is getting a hub that all your fancy new devices can connect to. Amazon's Echo devices are perfect for that. There are a lot of different options in the Echo line, such as smart speakers and smart displays. Choosing which model is best for you will come down to your available space and what you intend to use the device for. We've broken down every model and generation of the Echo that is currently on sale, so read on to find out which one is best for you.
Echo Pop — $25, was $40 The Echo Pop is definitely what you could call a "cute snack of an Echo device." Its small, semi-sphere body, low price, and four cute colors lend it to being in just about any home. Our Echo Pop review called it the perfect price for getting into Alexa. Furthermore it is great for small spaces and your bedroom will love the bonus Eero mesh inside. Oh, and if you're worried about privacy in the bedroom (you should be) there is an easy mic off button on the top. You'll also know when Alexa is listening because, as pictured above, the light bar at the top will turn blue once you've engaged Alexa. At 3.9 x 3.3 x 3.6 inches, it's the perfect gadget to spruce up your bedroom's smart gadget environment.
Smart Home When working as expected, Ring video doorbells are a great addition to most smart homes. Offering just about everything you’d find on a traditional doorbell, plus the addition of video alerts and customizable settings, it’s easy to see why they’re so popular. However, every so often, Ring doorbells will misbehave and stop working as intended – and one of the most common issues is that your Ring video doorbell won’t chime properly.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
