Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to set up your smart home for beginners By Tyler Lacoma Close If you’re just beginning your smart home journey, it can be difficult to figure out where to start. From smart thermostats and smart speakers to robot vacuums and light bulbs , the number of gadgets on the market is truly staggering — and can quickly become overwhelming to newcomers.
Understand compatibility Pick a voice assistant hub Add some smart lighting Pick out a couple of smart plugs Upgrade to a smart thermostat Integrate smart home security Get innovative with new appliances Thankfully, piecing together a smart home is pretty simple. While you can easily sink hours into automating every aspect of your household, all that’s really required for a “smart home” is a few products and their accompanying apps on your phone. If you need some guidance getting started, here are some tips to help set up your smart home.
Important note : Smart homes work via Wi-Fi connections (generally). Make sure your Wi-Fi network is password protected and uses the latest encryption options. This goes a long way in allaying security fears and making sure no one can hack your devices.
Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? Understand compatibility Image used with permission by copyright holder When picking out your first smart home devices, compatibility is the big question: Will all the smart tech work with each other? If it doesn’t integrate, you could lose valuable control, or you may need a separate app for each device, which can quickly get confusing and complicated.
The good news is that now is an excellent time to start creating a smart home system because compatibility is getting a huge boost with Matter, a joint development between major tech giants that’s slowly rolling out to devices across the Apple, Google, and Amazon ecosystems (along with hundreds of other popular products).
Matter will essentially eliminate the need to verify which platforms a product supports, as anything that runs Matter will play nicely with all other Matter-aligned products.
In other words, products across several different ecosystems will finally have a way to talk with each other — giving you unprecedented freedom to purchase your favorite gadgets and automate your life.
Devices and brands are already announcing compatibility with Matter (we have a larger guide on it ), so when you pick out new smart devices, we highly recommend looking for products that support Matter or that will. Then you should be able to use a single app, like Google Home or the Home app on iOS, to control most of the devices in your house, as well as a single voice assistant — without having to worry about compatibility.
Pick a voice assistant hub Image used with permission by copyright holder You don’t need a voice assistant hub in your smart home , but it’s an excellent place to start, and voice commands can often control the rest of your smart home , too. Voice Assistants like Alexa and Google Assistant can help you set up routines to control multiple devices at once, add new capabilities, or schedule certain things like dimming the lights or arming a security system. Plus, they can answer questions, make lists, call people, and do other handy voice assistant stuff.
If you like the idea of listening to music, you can pick something like the Nest Audio or Sonos One , place it in a central location and connect it to the voice assistant app on your phone. Smart displays like the Echo Show 15 can hang on a wall or sit on a table to show videos via the touchscreen and even livestream feeds from your security cams. And small speakers like the HomePod Mini or the Nest Mini can sit on your desk and listen for orders.
Looking for something affordable with support for Alexa? Then you can’t go wrong with the Echo Pop , which clocks in at $40 and is fully compatible with the popular voice assistant.
Add some smart lighting Image used with permission by copyright holder Once you have a smart speaker (again, an optional but suggested step), one of the easiest ways to adopt smart home tech is to pick up some smart lighting, too.
 It may be easier than you think: Brands like Philips Hue and Kasa — and many others — make long-lasting LED bulbs that are designed to fit into existing sockets. These connect with apps that allow you to control the color, brightness, and color temperature of the bulbs, among other things. You can create schedules for when you want the lights off or dimmed and connect them to your voice assistant so you can give orders about turning lights on or off.
This is a great way to get some smart devices in your home because you can go as slow as you want (not all your lights need to be smart) and experiment with what the bulbs are capable of. When ready, you can add more bulbs or expand into other devices with confidence. And if you like smart bulbs, you may want to upgrade some lighting systems with smart switches that permanently add similar advantages no matter what kinds of bulbs you are using.
Pick out a couple of smart plugs Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re looking for more smart home territory to conquer, it’s time to investigate smart plugs ! These little devices are made to plug into existing outlets in your home. You then plug another device — like a lamp, a coffeemaker, a diffuser, etc. – into the smart plug.
 With an app, you can now set a schedule for turning that device on or off at specific times, as well as monitor energy usage. Plus, many smart plugs are compatible with voice assistants for giving quick commands and can tie into larger smart home routines you may want to create.
Among many other brands, Kasa and Belkin have notably reliable smart plugs. The Emporia Smart Plug is another solid option if you’re looking for something with impressive energy-tracking abilities.
Upgrade to a smart thermostat Nest Next on the list is to find a great smart thermostat and replace your heating and cooling command center with a device that you can create a schedule for using your phone, as well as save money and get monthly reports about your energy usage.
Nest’s latest smart thermostat is a great pick, Ecobee continues to have excellent options , and many other brands have their own offerings. In fact, Amazon is a great option for shoppers on a budget, thanks to the Amazon Smart Thermostat — which is reliable, affordable, and fully supports Alexa. There’s a little bit of wiring involved with most smart thermostats, but it’s manageable or easily handled with a quick electrician visit.
Integrate smart home security Nest Now it’s time to talk about safety. Smart devices are a popular choice for a variety of security equipment made for your home, much of it do-it-yourself (DIY)-friendly , with options that come both with and without monitoring subscriptions Here are several of the most common options worth considering: Smart security cameras : These cams can be set up nearly anywhere , and typically come with motion sensors, two-way audio, spotlights, and more. You can view them through an app and receive many kinds of alerts — and today’s versions are typically smart enough to identify packages, ignore cars, and more.
Video doorbells : These are security cams that are designed for entryways and paired with a digital doorbell. They’re a great security pick even if you don’t have any other kind of security system, and the battery versions like those offered by Nest and Ring are particularly easy to install.
Smart locks : Smart locks replace or upgrade your lock with a high-tech deadbolt that you can control from an app and create digital passes for. A smart lock is an excellent security upgrade once you feel more comfortable with your smart home, although they can be a little bulky.
Smart sensors : These are security systems featuring a hub that interacts with a variety of sensors, including motion sensors, door sensors, window and glass sensors, leak sensors, and more. They may also be able to interact with other smart devices in your home. It’s an expensive but more complete security solution that’s often paired with a monitoring plan.
Get innovative with new appliances Image used with permission by copyright holder There are so many places you can take your smart home next, and it’s up to you where you want to go. We suggest looking at things like smart speaker bars for your entertainment system, smart smoke detectors that let you know when the battery is running low, and smart blinds that you can schedule to open and close. You may also like the idea of a secondary smart speaker upstairs or in the bedroom as an alarm clock.
When you are ready to take things even further, apps like Home in iOS, Alexa, and Google Home will typically suggest ways to pair smart device actions or allow you to manually set up routines.
 That could be a morning routine to start the coffeemaker, read out the news, and turn on the lights, for example. People also like to make coming-home routines, romantic routines, movie night routines — you get the idea. It’s an easy way to experiment and find the setups that work best for you.
When it’s time to buy larger appliances, you can look for those that can integrate with your smart home apps and send you alerts or messages for anything from a smart grill sensing temperatures to a smart washing machine telling you a cycle is finished. Again, look for the Matter protocol, which will help your devices stay secure and compatible with each other. The sky’s the limit for just how smart you want to make your home.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart home devices for 2023 How often should you replace your robot vacuum? The 5 weirdest smart home gadgets of 2023 How to create spooky Halloween effects with smart home lighting and sound Internet of Things (IoT) Speakers Smart Home Nanoleaf has been a big proponent of Matter, with a couple of products in its Essentials lineup already supporting the interoperability standard. The company today announced it’s expanding its selection of Matter-enabled smart home gadgets with four new products -- two of which are members of the Essentials lineup, while the other two are stylish table lamps designed in collaboration with Umbra.
The Nanoleaf Essentials Matter GU10 and Recessed Downlight are the two products joining the existing Essentials catalog. Both work with Matter over Thread, allowing users to access millions of colors, Schedules, and Scenes. The Downlight is of particular interest, as it features a slim design that should easily fit existing cutouts for 4-inch recessed lights.
Smart Home The best Alexa smart speakers don't just offer support for the voice assistant -- they also sound good, look good, and bring great value to your home. They often serve as the "brains" of a connected smart home, as you can give commands to the rest of your Alexa-enabled products just by talking to your smart speaker.
But with so many Alexa smart speakers on the market in 2023, it can be a challenge when narrowing down your options. It's hard to go wrong with anything from Amazon, Bose, Sonos, and other reputable brands – but which model is best for you? Smart Home Smart locks are an increasingly common sight around neighborhoods. These gadgets bring some modern amenities to your front door, letting you eschew your traditional key to operate your deadbolt with a password, fingerprint, or Bluetooth. If you’re curious to learn more about smart locks before adding one to your home, here’s everything you could want to know.
What is a smart lock? At its most basic, a smart lock is an electronic lock that connects to your home and lets you open your door without needing a traditional key. This can be done using a keypad, smartphone app, and sometimes a fingerprint scanner.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
