Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best 8K TV deals: Samsung, LG and Sony starting at $1,000 By Andrew Morrisey Close It may seem like 4K resolution just arrived, but 8K is already around the corner. You may not necessarily need such high resolution, but if you’re in the market for a new TV, buying an 8K TV now can future-proof your home theater, and 8K TVs are more affordable than most people realize. Putting one of the best 8K TVs at the center of your home theater will create about as immersive of an experience as you can get, as 8K resolution is the equivalent of putting four 4K TVs together. There are several 8K TVs in the same price range as 4K TVs, and there are quite a few 8K TV deals taking place right now. We’ve rounded them up, so read onward for more details.
Samsung QN700B 55-inch QLED 8K Smart TV — $1,000, was $1,600 Samsung QN800 75-inch QLED 8K Smart Tizen TV — $2,500, was $3,800 LG 99 Series 65-inch MiniLED 8K Smart TV — $2,500, was $3,500 Sony Z9J Bravia XR 75-inch Smart Google TV — $2,890, was $4,000 Samsung QN900C 85-inch QLED 8K Smart Tizen TV — $7,000, was $8,000 Samsung QN700B 55-inch QLED 8K Smart TV — $1,000, was $1,600 Samsung You can’t go wrong with a Samsung TV at any resolution, as Samsung is almost always one of the best TV brands.
 With this 55-inch QLED TV you’re getting a size that can fit well into most rooms and picture quality that’s hard to beat. It utilizes a Neural Quantum Processor Lite 8K to deliver Samsung’s most impressive picture yet, and while it’s often seen as a tossup between QLED and OLED for the best picture technology, QLED fits nicely with this 8K TV. It offers 33 million pixels and AI-based processing that upscales and analyzes everything you watch to upscale it with impressive clarity into 8K. This means that while most modern content is made in Full HD or 4K , with this TV you’ll be able to watch it and everything before it in 8K.
Samsung QN800 75-inch QLED 8K Smart Tizen TV — $2,500, was $3,800 Samsung The 75-inch version of the Samsung Neo QLED 8K Smart Tizen TV is the one you want if you’re looking to go big with your home theater. Its massive size combines with its premium picture quality to create an environment that feels a lot like a movie theater. It has all of the bells and whistles you’d expect from a TV of this size, including 8K AI upscaling, Quantum HDR 32X for beautiful contrast and colors, and Dolby Atmos sound with Object Tracking Sound+, which creates a 3D audio environment right in your home. It also has anti-reflection and Ultra Viewing Angle, which makes any seat in the house the best seat in the house.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
LG 99 Series 65-inch MiniLED 8K Smart TV — $2,500, was $3,500 Image used with permission by copyright holder Because one much of the content being produced these days is still in 4K , one of the main features you’ll want in an 8K TV is the ability to upscale without pixelating the image. Most 8K TVs have this feature and do the job well, but this TV utilizes Deep Learning and an advanced 8K processor to make it possible.e All of your favorite content will look great on the LG 99 Series 8K Smart TV. It also has some unique smart features like Sports Alert, which gives updates on your favorite teams, start times, and scores, even while you’re watching other content.
Sony Z9J Bravia XR 75-inch Smart Google TV — $2,890, was $4,000 Sony Sony is another big name that always makes the list of the best TV brands , and with the 75-inch Bravia 8K Google TV you’re getting some of its premium features. It has a Cognitive Processor XR that delivers intense contrast with deep blacks, high peak brightness, and natural colors. This processor understands how humans see the real world and adjusts the display to suit. Because this TV is a Google TV , it organizes your favorite content all in one place. This includes content from streaming platforms such as Netflix, Disney+, and Apple TV, among many others. The Sony name also makes this a good TV for compatibility with the PlayStation 5 , and it even has exclusive features for the PS5 to improve gaming picture quality.
Samsung QN900C 85-inch QLED 8K Smart Tizen TV — $7,000, was $8,000 Samsung If the size of other 8K TVs isn’t enough for you, perhaps the Samsung 85-inch QLED 8K Smart Tizen TV will do the trick for your home theater. With more than 33 million pixels that provide an incredible sense of depth and clarity, this TV brings four times the resolution of 4K to your home theater. It has a Neural Quantum 8K processor that elevates every image to 8K with multi-layered neural networks, and Quantum Matrix Technology presents a brilliantly intense picture powered by tiny hyper-focused light cells. This TV has all of the great features of a Smart TV , including access to streaming services , making it a great TV to break in with the best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max, and more.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now Best Black Friday 8K TV deals: Save on LG, Sony, and Samsung Deals Cheapest Prices TV Audio / Video You may or may not be aware, but out of all the different types of TV technologies QLED vs OLED panels are totally different. QLED stands for Quantum Light-Emitting Diode which means it uses millions of nanoparticles or Quantum Dots to supercharge its color, delivering a vibrant, gorgeous picture. You can read our quantum dot explainer to learn how it all works in more detail. The bigger dilemma, at least right now, is that QLED panels tend to be very expensive, unless you can grab them at a hefty discount. You'll want to listen up, though, because at this very moment there are a ton of early Black Friday deals to shop. Many of those deals even offer eye-popping discounts on QLED TVs from some of the biggest brands on the market like Samsung, TCL, Vizio, and more. We've rounded up all the best, and it can't hurt to take a look. Since it's discount season, make sure to compare these prices with OLED TV Black Friday deals as well.
The best QLED TV Black Friday deal We tend to go with a more affordable option when picking out the "best" deals, and this pick is no exception, but don't let that fool you. TCL has made an excellent TV with a lot of great features, like the superior 4K quality resolution, mini-LED technology with uncompromising contrast and brightness, and hands-free voice controls accessible via Google Assistant. But it all hearkens back to that price, and man is that price juicy. Don't sleep on this one.
Audio / Video If you don't already know, OLED and QLED panels are totally different, with OLED including millions of individually lit pixels. That allows them to be more vibrant than other panel technologies, but also during dark scenes, you get true blacks because the lights are actually turned off, rather than just dimmed. Unfortunately, OLED panels are expensive, unless you can find some excellent deals. Don't turn away just yet, though, because there are a ton of early Black Friday deals to shop right now -- across many retailers -- and some even included some great discounts on OLED TVs. In fact, we've rounded up all of the best OLED TV Black Friday deals we could find, including one stand out that pretty much everyone should consider.
If an OLED display is just too far out of your price range, you should also check out QLED TV Black Friday deals. Best Buy Black Friday TV deals include a wide variety of options, if you want to compare prices across TV categories.
The best OLED TV Black Friday deal Audio / Video One of our favorite unique TVs is on sale for Black Friday. Right now several sizes of the Samsung The Frame TV are on sale, with the 85-inch model dropping from $4,300 to $3,300. While that is still very expensive for a TV, it's a significant discount. Besides, this TV offers more than a quality centerpiece for your home theater system. It has the ability to display images in a way that no other TV can -- but more on that later. For now check out the deals on the 65-inch and 75-inch models if 85 is too much, and be sure to check out Frame TV Black Friday deals for discounts at other retailers.
65-inch The Frame TV -- Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
