Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LG TV deals: OLED, QLED, QNED and more on sale today By Lucas Coll Close There are no ifs, ands, or buts about it, TVs are some of the most highly sought after items when it comes to electronics deals. That’s because with some excellent discounts you can both upgrade the size you get and the quality of TV, while spending much, much less. And if you’ve been consistently checking out the best TV deals , you’ll notice LG often features. Also a popular entry in our look at the best TVs , LG is always a brand worth paying attention. But its TVs can be pricey. That’s why we’ve checked out the best LG TV deals in particular, so you can save on some fantastic high-end TVs. Below, we’ve picked out the best of the bunch currently available. Take a look and see which one you want to add to your home.
LG 43-inch Class 4K UHD Smart TV — $258, was $338 LG 50-inch 50UQ7070 4K TV — $328, was $398 LG 50-inch Class UR9000 Series LED 4K UHD Smart TV — $430, was $470 LG 50-inch Class 4K UHD Smart NanoCell TV — $450, was $500 LG 65-inch 65UQ7070 4K TV — $458, was $558 LG 70-inch 70UQ7070 — $598, was $648 LG 55-inch B2 OLED 4K TV — $1,000, was $1,100 LG 55-inch Class C2 Series OLD evo 4K UHD Smart TV — $1,200, was $1,300 LG 65-inch A2 OLED TV — $1,300, was $1,400 LG 75-inch Class 80 Series QNED 4K UHD Smart TV — $1,500, was $1,700 LG 65-inch Class B2 OLED 4K UHD Smart TV — $1,500, was $2,300 LG 86-inch 80 Series QNED 4K TV — $1,700, was $2,000 LG 65-inch G2 OLED evo TV — $2,000, was $2,200 LG 65-inch Class C3 Series OLED 4K UHD Smart TV — $2,000, was $2,500 LG 42-inch OLED Flex — $2,200, was $3,000 LG 77-inch B2 OLED TV — $2,300, was $2,500 LG 65-inch Class 4K G3 Series UHD OLED Smart TV — $2,899, was $3,297 LG 43-inch Class 4K UHD Smart TV — $258, was $338 LG Electronics Don’t overlook this TV, because with its decent size, 4K UHD support, and built-in smart functionality thanks to webOS 22 it has everything you could ever want or need. It’s the perfect set for upgrading or replacing an auxiliary room like a bedroom, game room, patio, or beyond. It’s powered by the LG a5 Gen 5 AI processor, has LG’s Game Optimizer and Dashboard, and active HDR via HDR10 Pro.
LG 50-inch 50UQ7070 4K TV — $328, was $398 Image used with permission by copyright holder The LG 50-inch 50UQ7070 4K TV keeps things simple while offering up all the essentials you need. It has the LG a5 Gen AI processor so you gain enhanced picture and sound quality while you watch. It also has a game optimizer mode to give you the best gaming experience for the price. Active HDR (HDR10 Pro) provides scene-by-scene picture adjustment to automatically adjust the quality of what you’re watching. Elsewhere, you get an eARC connection for better sound quality while there are nice details like sports alerts for real-time updates from your favorite teams.
LG 50-inch Class UR9000 Series LED 4K UHD Smart TV — $430, was $470 LG Electronics Powered by LG’s ThinQ AI technology, this immersive TV offers impressive 4K upscaling with HDR10 compatibility to improve your picture. You get webOS 23 for smart streaming right away, with quick cards for navigation shortcuts and a bevy of channels for extra entertainment. The a5 Gen 6 AI processor delivers exceptional performance while watching media, gaming, and beyond. The unique filmmaker mode allows you to experience movies and shows as if you’re the director.
LG 50-inch Class 4K UHD Smart NanoCell TV — $450, was $500 LG Electronics The “real 4K ” NanoCell display uses enhanced density to deliver true colors, a vibrant picture, and better performance all around. It’s elevated even more with the ThinQ AI upscaling, gameplay enhancements, active HDR , and the unique filmmaker mode you’ll find only on select LG TVs. WebOS offers streaming right out of the box, with an active internet connection, and the magic remote makes it easy to search and control content.
LG 65-inch 65UQ7070 4K TV — $458, was $558 LG For a bigger TV experience, there’s always the LG 65-inch 65UQ7070 4K TV. It’s a great size for your living room and ideally suited for many forms of entertainment. There’s its dedicated gaming optimizer mode which adjusts all your game settings in one place. Active HDR (HDR10 Pro) means you get scene-by-scene adjustments as you view, so the quality is always at its best. That’s thanks to LG’s a5 Gen 5 AI processor which does all the background work for you so you can simply enjoy watching or playing a game.
LG 70-inch 70UQ7070 — $598, was $648 Image used with permission by copyright holder For anyone with a large living room or gaming den, you need the LG 70-inch 70UQ7070. It has plenty of benefits such as LG’s a5 Gen 5AI processor so it’s capable of upscaling and enhancing the picture in the background without you needing to do a thing. If you like to tweak settings though, gamers will love the game optimizer mode which offers up plenty of settings but also does the hard work for you. Active HDR (HDR10 Pro) provides scene-by-scene adjustments with the quality of the picture improved without you noticing the work involved. Plenty of streaming services are catered for here too so it’s a breeze to use.
LG 55-inch B2 OLED 4K TV — $1,000, was $1,100 LG With the advantage of self-lit pixels aka OLED , the LG 55-inch B2 OLED TV looks great. It leads to deep blacks and vibrant colors, even as part of the same scene. The a7 Gen 5 AI processor 4K can adjust picture and sound qualities automatically to give you a great picture every time. That’s helped by AI Picture Pro 4K which automatically enhances contrast and resolution via AI 4K upscaling and AI Tone Mapping so you get to witness lifelike images. A dedicated Filmmaker mode promises great results for movie fans, while there’s also a dedicated Game Optimizer for gaming too.
Dolby Vision IQ and Dolby Atmos all add to the experience while the TV is even easy to use thanks to the Wiimote-like Magic Remote.
LG 55-inch Class C2 Series OLD evo 4K UHD Smart TV — $1,200, was $1,300 LG Electronics This self-lit OLED evo TV comes equipped with the webOS smart streaming platform, all powered by LG’s a9 Gen 5 AI processor with 4K upscaling. For gaming, you get Nvidia G-Sync, AMD FreeSync, and LG Game Optimizer support. The brightness booster, 100% color fidelity, and 100% color volume offer rich, vibrant picture options for your movies and shows. The magic remote, cloud streaming support through GeForce Now, and WiSA ready wireless connectivity for use with high fidelity speakers offer even more features that are going to rock your home theater.
LG 65-inch A2 OLED TV — $1,300, was $1,400 Image used with permission by copyright holder LG makes some of the best OLED TVs so this LG 65-inch A2 OLED TV is well worth your time and money. It has LG’s a7 Gen5 AI processor 4K which adjusts picture and sound quality while also upscaling non- 4K content. Features like AI Picture Pro 4K and AI Tone Mapping provide lifelike images every time, while you also get automatically enhanced contrast and resolution. Dynamic Tone Mapping is able to detect what you’re seeing and apply the optimal tone curve so you gain more natural color, deeper contrast, and more intricate detail. There’s also LG’s Filmmaker Mode for watching movies with Dolby Vision IQ and Dolby Atmos support, while a game optimizer mode is great for avid players.
LG 75-inch Class 80 Series QNED 4K UHD Smart TV — $1,500, was $1,700 LG Electronics Leveraging Quantum Dot NanoCell technology, and the a7 Gen 6 AI processor, this LG panel delivers vibrant colors, rich contrast, and sharp picture to elevate every single scene you watch. All of that, coupled with virtual 5.1 surround audio, Dolby Atmos and Dolby Vision , and advanced gameplay features make this TV stand out, and that’s well before even considering the size. It comes with webOS 23 for streaming right out of the box, and support all your favorite streaming platforms.
LG 65-inch Class B2 OLED 4K UHD Smart TV — $1,500, was $2,300 LG Electronics A gorgeous OLED panel, LG’s a7 Gen 5 AI processor for 4K content and upscaling, Dolby Vision IQ and Dolby Atmos , gaming optimizations with cloud gaming support through GeForce Now, and webOS 22 plus support for the LG magic remote — this TV is a fantastic option for any home theater setup.
LG 86-inch 80 Series QNED 4K TV — $1,700, was $2,000 LG QNED isn’t exactly a household name for many but LG’s use of Quantum Dot NanoCell color technology provides richer and more accurate colors than elsewhere. There’s local dimming too to improve contrast and reduce the halo effect for a clearer picture. Alongside such rich and lifelike colors, you get all the other great features from LG like AI Picture Pro 4K , Dynamic Tone Mapping, a dedicated Filmmaker mode, AI Tone Mapping, and a simple-to-use interface. Simply put, everything will look great here.
LG 65-inch G2 OLED evo TV — $2,000, was $2,200 Riley Young/Digital Trends Designed to look particularly good on your wall, the LG 65-inch G2 OLED evo TV is LG’s brightest LG OLED TV ever. Its Brightness Booster Max technology works alongside the latest a9 Gen5 AI processor to provide you with the brightest and best OLED performance yet. As with the others, you don’t need to do a thing to get the best performance here. Simply load up a film and Filmmaker mode does its thing or use the Game Optimizer while playing. With all the latest picture technologies from LG here, just wall mount your TV and it’ll provide you with a picture quality you can only dream of. It’s the ultimate LG TV right now.
LG 65-inch Class C3 Series OLED 4K UHD Smart TV — $2,000, was $2,500 LG Electronics The first thing you’ll notice about this gorgeous OLED panel is that it features an ultra slim design with a nearly invisible bezel. That meshes well with the art gallery mode that essentially turns the TV into a piece of fine art when it’s not in use. It’s all powered by the LG a9 Gen 6 AI processor with 4K upscaling, webOS 23, LG ThinQ AI and the magic remote for an incredible experience. The brightness booster, unique filmmaker mode, Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos support offer immersive home theater experiences. Plus, you get ultimate gaming support via the Nvidia G-Sync, AMD FreeSync compatibility, with the LG Game Dashboard and Game Optimizer. This is a great TV for standard movies and shows, gaming, fine art, and much more.
LG 42-inch OLED Flex — $2,200, was $3,000 LG Electronics Billed simply as the LG OLED Flex — with seemingly no mention of size or dimensions — the Flex is a 42-inch curved display in part of LG’s 2023 lineup. It’s called so because, well, it’s a flexible display with a bendable design. At the push of a button you can change the curvature of the screen to adjust viewing angles, with an ergonomic and sleek stand to keep it firmly in place. An ambient-light sensor helps adjust the vibrant backlighting to keep it bright and vivid. It features “super” anti-reflection properties, game optimizations including cloud gaming support via GeForce Now, and powerful entertainment options — all powered by the a9 Gen 5 AI processor.
LG 77-inch B2 OLED TV — $2,300, was $2,500 LG Bigger and better than others, the LG 77-inch B2 OLED TV has the now reliable set of high-end LG OLED features you’d expect. That means its a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K powering a lifelike picture with extensive depth and rich colors, with self-lit pixels looking fantastic. AI Picture Pro 4K works hard alongside AI Tone Mapping to provide a great picture while there’s also 100% color fidelity, 100% color volume, and Dynamic Tone Mapping too. You hardly need to do a thing either with the Filmmaker mode hard at work here along with the game optimizer providing Dolby Vision IQ, Dolby Atmos , and much more for a gorgeous image.
LG 65-inch Class 4K G3 Series UHD OLED Smart TV — $2,899, was $3,297 LG Electronics This TV features a one wall design and includes a wall bracket so you can mount it nearly flush to the surface with almost no space in between. It’s also so thin it looks like nothing more than a vibrant photo frame up on the wall.
Dolby Vision , WebOS 23, and LG’s a9 Gen 6 AI processor deliver one of the clearest and brightest pictures you’ve ever seen.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals: TVs, Fire Sticks, and more The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now Don’t miss these 32-inch TV Black Friday deals from just $90 Deals Cheapest Prices LG TV Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
