Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 2023’s best TVs for under $1,000 By Michael Bizzaco Close When new TVs arrive online and to brick-and-mortar retailers, many of us are conditioned to expect highway robbery-type prices, and in many cases, we get just that. Premium and flagship models are always going to be expensive, and other than waiting for the prices to drop when next year’s models start hitting shelves, there’s not much we can do. But did you know that you don’t actually have to spend a ton of moolah to drive home with an amazing TV? In fact, some of the best TVs of 2023 are available for $1,000 or less! We're not kidding, and we've done the tough job of vetting and testing the best TVs under $1,000 that you can buy right now. And guess what? One of the models is the amazing Hisense U8K , one of our favorite QLED TVs for 2023.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Hisense 55-inch U8K ULED The best TV for under $1,000 Excellent brightness Vivid HDR colors Very good backlight control Excellent contrast Great for gaming Some color anomalies Scattered software bugs Our favorite TV for under $1,000 is the incredible 55-inch Hisense U8K, and this wasn’t a tough call in the slightest. Our own editor-at-large, Caleb Denison, was totally blown away by a number of the U8K’s impressive features, but a true standout was its peak brightness capabilities. For those nit nerds who have a vested interest in those kinds of specs, we captured max brightness output at 2,000 nits (although it promises only 1,500), which is pretty darn good in our book! The U8K also scores big in the color accuracy and motion clarity departments (with the former being slightly better than the latter).
HDR connoisseurs will also be pleased to know that the U8K supports HDR10, HDR10+, and Dolby Vision. And as far as streaming content goes, we can never stop singing the praises of Google TV , which just so happens to be Hisense’s operating system of choice. Stream movies and TV shows from services like Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video, Disney+, and Max, while Google builds personalized recommendations for you based on your viewing history.
In terms of sound quality, the U8K isn’t too shabby either. In fact, Hisense is really the last of a dying breed when it comes to TV companies that care about giving you decent speakers. No, it’s not a surround-sound replacement, but if you’re stuck without Dolby Atmos or even a soundbar , the U8K’s onboard audio will do just fine.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Hisense 65-inch U7K The runner-up Powerful brightness and colors Great black levels Solid HDR support Awesome sound quality (for a TV) Less dimming zones and peak brightness than the U8K The Hisense U7K is extremely close to being a carbon copy of the company's U8K flagship, but there are a few picture and sound features that hold this model back just a tiny bit. But if you’re looking to score one of the best deals you can get on one of the best 65-inch TVs in 2023, these little demerits may work in your favor. On paper, the U8K has less local dimming zones (384 compared to 1,008 on the 65-inch U8K), a lower peak brightness (1,000 nits compared to the U8K’s 1,500), and two missing audio channels (the U7K is billed as a 2.1 system, while the U8K rocks a 2.1.2 array). Otherwise, the U7K shares the same mini-LED and quantum-dot tech for incredible color and contrast (with support for Dolby Vision, HDR10, HDR10+, and HLG).
Differences aside though, the U7K is still a phenomenal TV with next-gen gaming features, including its Game Mode Pro. which utilizes HDMI 2.1 that automatically adjusts to gaming with auto low latency mode (ALLM), and has a 144Hz variable refresh rate (VRR) for lag-free PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S gaming. Dolby Atmos support also means excellent immersive surround sound from your capable receiver and speaker system or compatible Atmos soundbar, which we have several suggestions for, should you need one.
The Hisense U7K, like all of Hisense's latest TVs, runs Google TV's smart interface for all things Netflix, Hulu, Disney+, and more. It's also Google Assistant-capable for searching for TV shows and movies, as well as controlling smart home devices with your voice.
More TCL TCL 65-inch Q7 QLED An awesome TCL High brightness Great contrast Vivid color Great for gaming White balance is just bad Color is technically inaccurate Inconsistent picture quality from streaming apps TCL has been featured in this roundup for quite some time and, quite frankly, if some of TCL's 2022, 2021, and even 2020 models were still readily available, they’d still have a home on this list because they hold up so well. The 2023 TCL Q7 QLED performs like an amalgamation of every great TV the company has ever made. The TCL name has come a long way to become one of the best TV brands on the market, and anyone looking for a powerful QLED TV for less than a grand will be interested in this TV.
Its arresting brightness performance has been improved thanks to its High Brightness Pro LED backlight at up to 1,000 nits peak. The Q7's backlight also has more than 200 full-array local dimming zones that dynamically adapt to on-screen content. Boasting quantum dot-boosted colors, advanced HDR support (Dolby Vision IQ, HDR10+, HDR10, and HLG), and gamer-optimized 240Hz VRR (the Q7 has a native 120Hz refresh rate), the Q7 QLED performs like it costs way more than a grand.
Google TV runs the show for all things smart and smart-adjacent (like Google Chromecast). Similar to Hisense’s duel of the U8K and U7K models, the only differentiator between TCL’s Q7 and QM8 is the amount of local dimming zones and peak brightness levels. If you’ve got the extra dough to spare, you may want to opt for the company flagship, but the Q7 is still an incredible pick.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon 65-inch Fire TV Omni QLED The best value Excellent Fire TV experience Great smart home hub Adequate picture performance Fun features Lacks HDR punch Price-to-picture performance ratio is off Amazon’s first-party TVs are pretty good when it comes to overall picture quality, but even better when it comes to saving you cash, and that's where the Fire TV Omni QLED comes in.
Amazon has been making TVs for a few years now, and while they’re not the kinds of sets we’d point all our friends toward, these Alexa-powered displays are great when funds are limited. But you know what? The 65-inch Omni QLED is actually pretty awesome all-around, and it costs far less than the average 65-inch LED at around $800.
Perhaps the biggest win to write home about is that the Omni QLED supports each and every HDR format out there (Dolby Vision IQ, HDR10+ Adaptive, HDR10, and HLG). So whether you’re streaming your favorite movies from Netflix or popping in your 4K Blu-ray copy of Jurassic World: Dominion , the Omni QLED is equipped to push the kind of breathtaking brightness, colors, and contrast that one should expect from an HDR viewing. This Amazon Omni TV also has Amazon's Adaptive Brightness feature that, if utilized, actively measures the lighting in your room and optimizes the TVs brightness. It also features the Fire TV Ambient Experience that turns the TV into an art display when idle -- it can feature your photos, Alexa widgets, and more than 1,000 works of art.
Omni also has Alexa built in, allowing you to control all the smart home devices in your house. Yes, the Omni QLED has a little bit of trouble with light blooming, and the refresh rate only tops out at 60Hz, but it’s going to be pretty difficult to score this insane of a deal for a screen as big, bright, and colorful as this one.
Digital Trends LG 55-inch B2 OLED An OLED for less A great OLED from a trusted name Great black levels Good 4K upscaling Optimized for next-gen gaming Only 60Hz refresh rate A better LG OLED doesn't cost much more The LG B2 Series has been around for a minute, but that’s why you’ll get such an excellent deal on this mighty midtier set that features LG's OLED picture technology.
We were eager to get an LG OLED on this list. No, the 55-inch B2 Series isn’t one of the company’s newest sets, but LG’s previous-gen models tend to stick around for quite some time. Put up against the 2023 G3 or C3 Series (or even the 2022 C2 Series), the B2 doesn’t deliver the same kind of brightness and picture processing that you’ll find on its higher-priced siblings, but don’t let that deter you. In fact, the a7 Gen5 AI Processor 4K does a really awesome job at bringing as much pixel power to the table as possible, especially when it comes time to upscale a non-4K source.
The B2 Series also includes a number of great gaming features, including Nvidia G-Sync, FreeSync Premium, and VRR support. Of course, it would be nice if we could say these features worked in unison with a 120Hz panel, but the B2’s native 60Hz screen is one of a few sacrifices to keep the price low. But if you’ve been dying to get into an OLED for a while, and money’s been the main limitation, the 55-inch B2 Series comes in at just under $1,000.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung 70-inch Q60C QLED A big screen for less than $1K Great price for the size Solid 4K upscaling Decent HDR performance Only 60Hz refresh rate Some issues with light blooming Not as advanced as other models on this list It’s not an overperformer in the picture quality department, but for the size and the price, the Samsung 70-inch Q60C QLED delivers a solid big TV experience, especially for fans of the Samsung name that want as big of a TV as they can get.
Sometimes the most important part of a new flat-screen purchase is making sure the screen is as big as possible. Unfortunately, most 65-inch-plus TVs cost a pretty penny, but we were determined to find a make and model that came in below cost, while still delivering an awesome picture, and so we’ve landed on the Samsung 70-inch Q60C QLED. To be honest, we didn’t think we’d be able to include a Samsung in this roundup at all. We all know it makes amazing TVs, but for something on the bigger side, they’re usually way more than $1,000. The Q60C really fits the bill though.
As far as picture tech goes, the Quantum Processor Lite handles all 4K optimization, ensuring that even SDR sources look crisp and colorful. There’s also some pretty decent HDR support (HDR10+ and HLG) and motion acceleration built in for good measure. The latter is much needed though, because a big part of your savings on the Q60C comes from the set’s native 60Hz refresh rate. Yeah, it’s not exactly ideal for a larger screen, and we don't recommend this TV for gamers, but there’s plenty to love about this Samsung (including awesome smart TV features and Object Tracking Sound Lite), even though it doesn’t have a 120Hz panel.
More Frequently Asked Questions You'll be able to find a TV as large as 70 inches for under $1,000.
Yes, but very rarely with deals. OLED TV technology still is primarily available on high-end models that soar beyond the $1,000 mark. But we're starting to see some models dip below a grand.
Using either Google Home, Fire TV, or an Amazon Echo, you can pair many modern TVs with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa. Many newer TVs have these options built-in, so you can use them without buying a separate appliance. Unfortunately, no current models of TVs have Siri built-in, so you’ll have to try a workaround. For example, TVs that support AirPlay 2 and HomeKit let you control them by using Siri on an iOS device, such as an iPad, iPhone, iPod, and Mac.
The No. 1 thing to consider is HDMI in terms of outputs and inputs. We recommend purchasing a TV with HDMI ARC or eARC , which means your TV audio can stream to an AV receiver or a soundbar. Every TV we’ve included on this list has at least one HDMI ARC port, and most have three total HDMI ports. This means you’ll have plenty of image and audio channels available to connect gaming consoles, Blu-ray players , and set-top streaming devices to your system. Getting the latest generation of HDMI is also important for enabling the most recent visual/audio options.
There are several times in the year that are good for buying a TV. Let's get the obvious out of the way — Black Friday and the surrounding holidays tend to have the best deals for things like TVs, so November and December are clear choices. But if you missed a deal or it ran out of stock, these can also be annoying months to buy. We suggest also looking for deals in January when brands discount in preparation for the Super Bowl, and in April and May, when many TVs go on sale.
With proper care, TVs can last for many years. But Samsung and LG have particularly good reputations for durable TVs that can handle long-term use without developing annoying issues like damaged pixels, while still offering top-notch quality. Check out our excellent post on the best TV brands for more details.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Best Black Friday 8K TV deals: Save on LG, Sony, and Samsung The best early Black Friday TV deals under $300 right now Usually $1800, this Samsung 70-inch QLED TV is discounted to $880 Best Products Product Reviews TV TV Reviews Audio / Video Black Friday deals season is always a great time to score awesome TV deals and right now, Amazon is one of the places to check out. Today, you can buy the TCL 98-inch S5 4K TV for $2,998 instead of $4,000. A substantial saving of 25% or $1,000, the TV might still not be in impulse buy territory but if you've been waiting to invest in a huge TV, this is a great saving. Here's what else you need to know before you consider buying.
Why you should buy the TCL 98-inch S5 4K TV TCL is one of the best TV brands around for value and this TCL 98-inch S5 4K TV certainly demonstrates how much it can pack in for the price. The TV offers so much more than simply being massive and bordering on home cinema like in your living room.
Audio / Video With Walmart's early Black Friday deals, you won't have to wait for the shopping holiday to buy an affordable 4K TV as you can already take advantage of offers like this $50 discount for the 50-inch Onn 4K TV. From an already cheap sticker price of $198, it's available for just $148, so if you want an upgrade for your home theater setup but you're on a tight budget, you wouldn't want to miss out on this bargain. Add the 4K TV to your cart and check out as soon as possible because there's a chance that stocks run out sooner than you expect.
Why you should buy the 50-inch Onn 4K TV The 50-inch screen of the Onn 4K TV, like most of the best TVs, offers 4K Ultra HD resolution for crystal-clear picture and lifelike colors, so you'll be able to appreciate even the smallest details of your favorite content. With a 60Hz refresh rate, you'll experience smooth motion on the screen when you're watching sports programs and playing video games. You also have the option of downloading the free Roku app, which can transform your smartphone into a remote for browsing channels and using voice commands.
Audio / Video Walmart's Black Friday deals for this year have already started, which is great news for those who want a head start on their shopping. If you were planning to get a new TV, check out this offer -- a $52 discount for the 55-inch Samsung TU690T 4K TV, which lowers its price to just $298 from $350 originally. There's no point in waiting for after Thanksgiving if you can already get this 4K TV for less than $300 right now, so proceed with the purchase as soon as possible if you're interested.
Why you should buy the 55-inch Samsung TU690T 4K TV The Samsung TU690T 4K TV is an excellent display for watching streaming shows, which you can access through the Tizen OS. As a smart TV, like all of the best TVs, not only does it support all of the popular streaming services, but it will also let you download and use a wide variety of apps such as video games and workout guides. You also have the option of connecting streaming devices to the TV's HDMI port, if you're more comfortable with other platforms like Apple TV and Roku.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
