Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Vizio TV deals: Cheap smart TVs starting at $130 By Lucas Coll and Noah McGraw Close Vizio has made a name as a fantastic low-budget TV brand. As they’ve gotten more popular, they’ve come out with some nicer models and explored technology like QLED and OLED panels. We’ve summarized the most popular Vizio Series below, and listed all of the sizes in each category that are currently on sale. These Vizio TV deals come from several different retailers. We’ve scoured the web for deals so you don’t have to.
Vizio D-Series — starting at $130 Vizio V-Series — starting at $250 Vizio P-Series — starting at $1,200 50-inch Vizio MQX QLED TV — $500, was $550 65-inch Vizio M6 QLED — $498, was $678 75-inch Vizio M7 QLED — $900, was $1,000 How to choose a Vizio TV Vizio D-Series — starting at $130 Image used with permission by copyright holder If you need a small TV for your bedroom, dorm room or kitchen, a cheap Vizio is a classic option. The D-Series are smaller form TVs with fairly basic functions, and price tags to match. They aren’t 4K , just 1080p, but since they are small it isn’t usually obvious. They have standard LED displays that are direct lit, meaning they don’t have local dimming options. They do run at 60Hz, so gaming and sports will look smooth. They also have smart capabilities, so you can stream from most apps straight to the TV.
24-inch — $130, was $140: 32-inch — $170, was $180: 40-inch — $180, was $190: Vizio V-Series — starting at $250 Vizio The Vizio V-Series is a great option for all around performance on a budget. It’s a 4K TV with up to 60Hz refresh rate, making it great for sports or gaming. It even has a 10ms response time. While that’s not gaming monitor-levels, it will make for a smooth gaming experience. It’s powered using Vizio’s IQ Active processor, which is powerful enough to support HDR10 and active pixel tuning.
43-inch — $240, was $290: 50-inch — $285, was $299: 65-inch — $398, was $528: Vizio P-Series — starting at $1,200 Image used with permission by copyright holder Vizio’s P-Series is a gorgeous group of OLED TVs with some surprise bonus features. It starts out with OLED pixels, so you get amazing contrast between bright colors and pitch blacks. It adds to that with the Vizio Quantum Color engine, which is a variation of a QLED panel. That’s right, quantum dots and OLED pixels — the best of both worlds. The TV gets up to 1,200 nits of brightness, and the screen has an anti-glare film on it, so you’ll get a stunning and clear picture even in well lit rooms. It has a bunch of bonus features that improve the home theater experience, like 4K upscaling, active pixel tuning and a 120Hz variable refresh rate.
75-inch — $1,200, was $1,700: 50-inch Vizio MQX QLED TV — $500, was $550 Vizio The MQX Series is a great budget option for QLED TVs. QLED means they have a quantum dot panel inside them that helps enhance color. It has local dimming, so cark areas can stay truly dark instead of slightly gray. It can also handle Dolby Vision and HDR10+. The MQX has a high refresh rate of 120Hz, so its great for gamers who want to push the limits of fps on their games. It has all the smart features you could want, so you can stream straight to the TV.
65-inch Vizio M6 QLED — $498, was $678 Vizio The Vizio M6 is the next step up in the M-Series. It has a great 4K screen and a processor, so it can upscale regular HD content into 4K.
 The processor also handles active pixel tuning, which adjusts pixel brightness frame by frame for the highest contrast possible. It is compatible with HDR and Dolby Vision Bright mode, so games and movies optimized for those settings will virtually jump off the screen. Did we mention it’s QLED? That means you’ll have incredibly vivid colors — over a billion are possible.
75-inch Vizio M7 QLED — $900, was $1,000 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Vizio M7 gives you almost everything you could want from a 4K TV. It has QLED, so you’ll get gorgeous colors from the full DCI-P3 spectrum and unparalleled brightness. This is enhanced using the Dolby Vision Bright Mode. The LEDs are in an Active Full Array with 32 local dimming zones. That means that dark areas will stay nice and black, even when they share the screen with bright objects. It’s contrast you can’t get through a standard LED panel.
How to choose a Vizio TV Image used with permission by copyright holder Cheap Vizio TVs are among the best values on the market for anybody shopping for a television, but considering how large the lineup is, there are a few things to bear in mind before you rush to grab the first bargain you see at the size you think you want. Before you dive into these Vizio TV deals, set your budget, determine what panel size is ideal for the room you’re going to put it in, and know what you’ll be using the TV for. Are you going to be mostly be using your Vizio TV for streaming TV shows and movies? Do you plan to watch live sports? Will you have Xbox, Nintendo, or PlayStation consoles hooked up to it for playing video games? All of the above? Also, don’t assume that you should get the same size you have now. Televisions are thinner, lighter, and much cheaper than they were even five years ago, so it may not hurt to size up. You’re less likely to be disappointed with a larger TV than you are with one that ends up being too small. See our TV sizing guide if you need some help with this. Bear in mind that while 4K TVs are the norm nowadays, smaller ones around 43 inches and below still commonly feature 1080p Full HD panels. If you explicitly want 4K Ultra HD and the TV you’re eyeing is on the smaller side, make sure it fits that bill before you hit that Add to Cart button.
Although Vizio is one of the top value brands in the TV market, it also has some higher-end models under its wide umbrella. These more premium televisions boast enhancements like QLED and OLED displays, which utilize newer lighting technologies rather than traditional edge-to-edge backlighting to create a brighter picture with deeper contrast (e.g., blacks will look truly black, not dark gray). Some also have built-in modes purpose-designed for things like gaming, so look out for those additional features when shopping for Vizio TV deals depending on your needs and viewing habits.
If you’re shopping for cheap Vizio TVs for a budget-friendly home theater setup, for example, then you might want to consider upgrading to a QLED or OLED panel for a more cinematic experience. Thankfully, these aren’t nearly as expensive as they were when these LED technologies first hit the market a few years ago. You’ll find these panels on select models in the the Vizio P-Series, V-Series, and M-Series, and depending on size, you might even find some below $1,000 in your search for cheap Vizio TVs.
Editors' Recommendations Amazon’s new Fire TV Stick 4K is an absolute steal while it’s 50% off The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now Deals Cheapest Prices TV Audio / Video If you're always looking for the next advancement in TV tech, you're likely familiar with the concept of 8K television. You probably know that TVs of this style are quite expensive, though, so may have been waiting for prices to die down before buying one. That's a logical approach, and it may be a couple of years yet before 8K programming becomes available to the masses, but with Black Friday deals already here for 2023 the shopper with an eye on the ground has a chance to get one for a steal this year. Arranged by brand, these are our favorite Black Friday TV deals on 8K TVs.
If you haven't completed your home theater setup yet, pair your 8K TV with Black Friday soundbar deals.
Best LG 8K TV Black Friday deals Audio / Video You may or may not be aware, but out of all the different types of TV technologies QLED vs OLED panels are totally different. QLED stands for Quantum Light-Emitting Diode which means it uses millions of nanoparticles or Quantum Dots to supercharge its color, delivering a vibrant, gorgeous picture. You can read our quantum dot explainer to learn how it all works in more detail. The bigger dilemma, at least right now, is that QLED panels tend to be very expensive, unless you can grab them at a hefty discount. You'll want to listen up, though, because at this very moment there are a ton of early Black Friday deals to shop. Many of those deals even offer eye-popping discounts on QLED TVs from some of the biggest brands on the market like Samsung, TCL, Vizio, and more. We've rounded up all the best, and it can't hurt to take a look. Since it's discount season, make sure to compare these prices with OLED TV Black Friday deals as well.
The best QLED TV Black Friday deal We tend to go with a more affordable option when picking out the "best" deals, and this pick is no exception, but don't let that fool you. TCL has made an excellent TV with a lot of great features, like the superior 4K quality resolution, mini-LED technology with uncompromising contrast and brightness, and hands-free voice controls accessible via Google Assistant. But it all hearkens back to that price, and man is that price juicy. Don't sleep on this one.
Audio / Video When it comes to a home theater setup bigger can often mean better. That’s certainly the case with the Samsung QE1C 4K QLED TV, but with this TV bigger also means savings. This 70-inch TV makes for one of the best QLED TV deals available when you purchase directly from Samsung, as it’s marked down an impressive $920 from its regular price of $1,800. This brings its sale price to $880, and Samsung is including free shipping with a purchase.
Why you should buy the Samsung 70-inch QE1C 4K QLED TV Samsung is one of the premier names when it comes to 4K TVs. It almost always seems to place a television amongst the best TVs, and it’s regularly regarded as one of the best TV brands. With the QE1C 4K QLED TV, Samsung offers a range of smart features that include access to Samsung’s gaming hub, as well as easy access to your favorite streaming services. This makes the QE1C a great way to kick back with the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime, Max, and more. It also comes with a SolarCell Remote, which gives you full control of your content and features a solar panel for charging.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
