Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Walmart TV deals: 55-inch 4K TV for under $250 and more By Albert Bassili Close If it’s time to upgrade your home theater system, Walmart TV deals are a great place to start looking. While TVs have gotten dramatically cheaper over the years, you’re still going to be dropping at least a triple-digit number on a new one. Thankfully Walmart TV deals cut quite a bit off the price tag. Below we’ve collected LED, QLED , OLED , HD and 4K TVs from Walmart. These comes from all sorts of brands, so check out the full list. If you want to brows for yourself, here’s a link to all of the TVs for sale at Walmart.
Hisense 58-inch Roku 4K TV — $268, was $338 Philips 55-inch 4K TV — $268, was $298 Onn. 55-inch 4K Roku TV — $248, was $298 JVC 58-inch Roku 4K TV — $268, was $340 LG 55-inch 4K TV — $358, was $448 Vizio 65-inch V-Series 4K TV — $398, was $528 Onn. 75-inch 4K Frameless TV — $498, was $578 Vizio 65-inch M6 Series QLED TV — $498, was $678 Samsung 55-inch QN80 QLED TV — $998, was $1,168 Samsung 75-inch The Frame — $1,949, was $3,000 Hisense 58-inch Roku 4K TV — $268, was $338 Hisense One of the best TV brands for value, Hisense is worth checking out, particularly with its Hisense 58-inch Roku 4K TV. A great size for the price, you get all the benefits of a 4K resolution along with Dolby Vision HDR and HDR10 support, as well as Motion Rate 120. The latter means you won’t have to worry about motion blur while you play a game or watch fast-moving action or sports. A dedicated gaming mode significantly improves input lag too so you get a great experience. For sound, there’s DTS Studio Sound support for a more immersive experience. Also, the TV works with Google Assistant and Alexa so it’s easy to use and control your TV and other smart home devices.
Philips 55-inch 4K TV — $268, was $298 Walmart This Philips TV is pretty basic, but it has the two most important features for a home theater system: It’s big and it’s 4K.
 55-inch TVs are on the smaller end for a living room TV, but you certainly won’t be squinting at the screen. This is also a smart TV, so you can start streaming right after you buy it, no external connections needed. It’s powered by Google, so if you have other Google smart devices you can connect them to each other.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Onn. 55-inch 4K Roku TV — $248, was $298 Onn.
For a sizeable home cinema experience on a budget, there’s the Onn. 65-inch 4K Roku TV. Its 65-inch panel means you won’t miss out on being wrapped up in the movies or sports games you might be watching. It has Roku built-in so it’s simple to find everything with seemingly every streaming service imaginable here. There are also three HDMI ports for hooking up game consoles so it’s fairly flexible, especially for the price.
JVC 58-inch Roku 4K TV — $268, was $340 JVC This JVC 4K TV is another fairly simple device. Its most prominent feature is its size. 58-inch TVs aren’t standard. This won’t affect your viewing experience. In fact, you’re getting quite a bit more screen for a minor increase in price. It’s a smart TV, of course, so you can stream straight to it. This one is powered by Roku , so you can ditch your Roku plugin if you buy this TV.
LG 55-inch 4K TV — $358, was $448 LG Earlier TVs on this list have been from manufacturers that focus on producing budget-friendly options. LG, on the other hand, is a top notch TV brand. LG makes some of the best TVs on the market. This is still al budget option from them, but it has one of their powerful α5 Gen5 processors, which optimizes the contrast and brightness of the TV based on what’s on the screen. It’s even compactible with HDR10+.
Vizio 65-inch V-Series 4K TV — $398, was $528 Vizio V-Series TVs from Vizio are quality LED TVs. It doesn’t have any next-gen technology like QLED or local dimming. The technology it does use has been perfected though. It uses full array backlighting, so everything on the screen will be lit uniformly — no dim sections. It has a powerful AI processor that helps upscale FHD content into 4K.
 The processor can also tune the contrast of individual pixels to give you the clearest image it can. It can also work with Dolby Vision content and HDR10+.
Onn. 75-inch 4K Frameless TV — $498, was $578 Walmart A frameless TV is great for the homeowner that wants to wall mount their TV. It makes the Onn. 75-inch 4K Frameless TV blend well into your home. Alongside that, you get a fairly typical Onn. experience with Roku smart TV built-in to make it easy to find things to watch. It also has three HDMI ports so it’s easy to hook everything up to, while the 4K resolution keeps it current and looking good.
Vizio 65-inch M6 Series QLED TV — $498, was $678 Vizio Vizio is a great TV brand to buy from and the Vizio 65-inch M6 Series QLED TV demonstrates you can get a lot for your money. It has a great 4K resolution panel with QLED technology. To boost its cinematic level of color, it has a full array backlight so you get superior light uniformity and better picture performance. Alongside that, there’s Active Pixel Tuning so you get intelligent pixel-level brightness adjustments that tune contrast levels frame by frame in over 2,000 zones for better visual contrast. There’s also the IQ Active Processor which upscales non- 4K content while there’s also Dynamic Motion Rate 120 for better motion clarity, even when there’s hectic action going on. The latter is great for gamers and works well in conjunction with the V-Gaming Engine which automatically optimizes the picture for gamers with low input lag and variable refresh rates. Three HDMI 2.1 ports are great for players too while extensive smart functionality is ideal for calmer times of the day.
Samsung 55-inch QN80 QLED TV — $998, was $1,168 Samsung This is another high quality QLED screen from Samsung. You’re get fantastic colors thanks to the quantum dot panel. If you don’t want a soundbar, this TV is a great option, as it has several up-firing speakers built in that even track sound across the screen. If you decide to get a soundbar, the Q-Symphony technology will let you use the TV’s built-in speakers as another channel. It has a powerful 4K processor, the ability to play HDR10+ content, and an adaptive picture setting that adjusts the contrast and brightness of the screen depending on what’s happening in the movie you’re watching.
Samsung 75-inch The Frame — $1,949, was $3,000 Samsung The Samsung Frame is a truly unique TV. When you’re not using it, you can display slideshows so crystal clear they look like framed pieces of art. The TV does this by having a very high quality QLED display, a matte setting and a mode that reduces glare on the screen. It’s very thin so it’s easily mountable on a wall, and you can customize the bezels to match the other framed artwork in your home.
Editors' Recommendations Early Black Friday deal knocks 25% off this massive 98-inch 4K TV 55-inch Samsung 4K TV is under $300 in Walmart’s Black Friday sale Don’t miss this deal: Best Buy has a 75-inch 4K TV for $520 Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more Deals Cheapest Prices Samsung TCL TV Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Audio / Video If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That's why we've listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don't have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there's something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we've picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV -- $298, was $348 The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that's ideal if you're on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There's also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
Audio / Video Checking out all the TV deals but know your heart is set on a 75-inch model? We've narrowed things down here to all the best 75-inch TV deals going on at the moment. Encompassing everything from regular 4K TVs to the latest in 8K and Mini-LED technology, there's something for every budget and need here. Keep reading while we take you through the best options currently available.
Onn. 75-inch 4K TV -- $498 The Onn. 75-inch 4K TV isn't technically on sale but it's an amazing price for a 75-inch 4K TV. Its huge 75-inch screen is teamed up with useful features like three HDMI ports. It also has Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily find movies and TV episodes across thousands of free or paid channels. There's also the Roku mobile app which means that you can use voice commands to find what you want to watch rather than needing to use the remote. It's straightforward enough and ideal for those on a budget.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
