Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides How to update software on a Samsung smart TV By Michael Bizzaco Close Samsung is one of the world's leading TV brands. Not only do its LEDs, QLEDs, and QD-OLEDS deliver some incredibly powerful picture quality, but they're also some of the best TVs for streaming movies and TV shows from your favorite apps, including Netflix, Prime Video, and Disney+. We're betting you've heard the phrase "smart TV," and the ability to connect to Wi-Fi to enjoy apps, games and web browsing on your TV is exactly what the "smart" in smart TV means. But like any good web-connected device, today's best Samsung smart TVs require software updates to ensure you're getting the best smart experience possible.
Update your Samsung TV's software over the internet Update your Samsung TV's software with a USB flash drive Setting your Samsung TV up for automatic software updates Updating the apps on your Samsung TV Difficulty Duration What You Need Samsung smart TV and remote A reliable internet connection USB flash drive (in some cases) A computer (in some cases) Making sure your Samsung TV is running the latest software (sometimes also referred to as firmware) ensures that you're receiving the best performance all-around, including things like app optimization, overall security, bug and glitch fixes, and, in some cases, picture and sound enhancements. We also have how-to articles for keeping your apps up to date and how to delete apps from your Samsung smart TV.
By agreeing to the Smart Hub Terms and Conditions during the initial setup of your Samsung TV , you're giving Samsung permission to apply automatic software updates to your set. If you didn't agree to these terms upfront or want to learn about other ways to get software updates to your Samsung TV, we've outlined a few methods to do so in this guide.
Samsung / Samsung Update your Samsung TV's software over the internet Aside from having automatic updates set up, this is by far the easiest way to download and install updates for your Samsung smart TV.
Step 1: First things first: You'll want to make sure your TV is connected to a reliable Wi-Fi network.
 If you've been "borrowing" internet from the restaurant across the street, this isn't the time to bet on the connection. If your TV isn't connected to a solid network while downloading or implementing a software update, it can potentially take a long time to grab the new patch in the first place. In some cases, it may even result in the TV's software bricking altogether — and that's not typically a fate you can walk away from.
Step 2: Once your TV is connected to Wi-Fi, press the Menu or Settings button on your remote, navigate to Settings , then choose Support.
The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now Step 3: Next, select Software Update , then Update Now.
 You'll also see a toggle on/off for Auto Update.
 Don't worry, we'll get to that in a few moments.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: If there is an update available, the TV will ask you to confirm the download. Once you grant permission, the TV will begin downloading the patch and installing it. From start to finish, this process takes only a few minutes.
We cannot emphasize this enough: During any part of the update process, do not turn off the TV.
 Doing so puts your TV at risk of bricking while implementing the new software.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: When the update is finished installing, your TV will restart automatically. That's all there is to it.
SanDisk Update your Samsung TV's software with a USB flash drive If you don't have a ready Wi-Fi network for your TV to jump on, another way you can download and install software updates is with a USB flash drive.
Step 1: All of the latest software updates for Samsung's full lineup of TVs can be found online through the Samsung Download Center.
Step 2: Once you're on the page, you can either search for your specific TV by selecting Product Type , then TV.
 If you already know your TV's exact model number , you can click Enter Model Number to input the medley of letters and numbers that make up your Samsung's name.
Step 3: On the Support page for your respective TV, the latest software updates can be found under the Downloads tab. Just click Download next to the latest version and wait for the download to complete.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: The update will be added to your computer as a compressed file. Locate the file, then unzip it. To make the next step easier, we recommend moving the unzipped file to your desktop.
Step 5: Next, go ahead and connect your USB flash drive to one of your computer's USB inputs. Then, either click and drag the unzipped update file over to your USB or copy/paste it from your computer into the drive.
You'll want to make sure that the update file is stored directly to the drive and not any ancillary folders that you may have on the USB already. If the update file gets plopped into a secondary folder, your TV won't be able to find it (our next step).
Step 6: Dismount the USB drive, unplug it from your computer, then connect it to one of your Samsung TV's USB inputs.
Step 7: Grab your TV remote and turn the set on. Open the Main Menu , select Settings , then Support.
 Then, select Software Update > Update Now > Yes.
Your TV will then search for the USB-loaded update. After detecting it, the set will begin installing the update. Let us reiterate: Do not turn the TV off during this process. When the update is completed, your TV will restart automatically.
Setting your Samsung TV up for automatic software updates If you'd rather not have to manually search for updates intermittently, you can turn this feature on to have updates downloaded while your TV is in standby (turned off, but still plugged in for power). Once you turn your TV back on, the update gets applied to your set automatically.
Step 1: Turn your TV on, open the Main Menu , then navigate to Settings > Support.
Step 2: Choose Software Update.
 If Auto Update isn't toggled on, go ahead and do so. From now on, your Samsung TV will perform all software updates automatically.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Updating the apps on your Samsung TV Outside of the main software updates your Samsung TV receives, there are also individual app updates to consider. Keeping your TV apps up to date ensures you're getting the best experience from your smart TV overall. App updates can be relatively small (glitch fixes) to large in scale (menu redesigns). Regardless of the download size though, app updates can be just as essential as the software patches that hit your TV directly.
Step 1: On your Samsung TV remote, press the Smart Hub or Home button.
Step 2: Choose Apps from the bottom-ribbon of menu options. Next, select My Apps , followed by Options.
Step 3: If you want your TV apps to update automatically, toggle Auto Update on.
Going forward, if you notice that there's a delay when you press the Smart Home or Home button on your TV remote, this is because your TV is implementing whatever app updates were last installed. You'll also see some kind of message telling you that updates are being applied. After a minute or two, this message will disappear and you'll be able to use your TV as normal.
Step 4: With Auto Update disabled, you can manually choose which TV apps receive updates. To do so, press the Smart Hub or Home button, choose My Apps , then select the update box (located near Options ). Select the update box.
From here, you'll see a list of the apps installed on your TV that have updates available, allowing you to pick and choose which ones receive the latest software/firmware.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday Best Black Friday 8K TV deals: Save on LG, Sony, and Samsung The best QLED TV Black Friday deals on TCL, Samsung, Vizio, and more How-To Guides Samsung TV Audio / Video If you don't already know, OLED and QLED panels are totally different, with OLED including millions of individually lit pixels. That allows them to be more vibrant than other panel technologies, but also during dark scenes, you get true blacks because the lights are actually turned off, rather than just dimmed. Unfortunately, OLED panels are expensive, unless you can find some excellent deals. Don't turn away just yet, though, because there are a ton of early Black Friday deals to shop right now -- across many retailers -- and some even included some great discounts on OLED TVs. In fact, we've rounded up all of the best OLED TV Black Friday deals we could find, including one stand out that pretty much everyone should consider.
If an OLED display is just too far out of your price range, you should also check out QLED TV Black Friday deals. Best Buy Black Friday TV deals include a wide variety of options, if you want to compare prices across TV categories.
The best OLED TV Black Friday deal Audio / Video One of our favorite unique TVs is on sale for Black Friday. Right now several sizes of the Samsung The Frame TV are on sale, with the 85-inch model dropping from $4,300 to $3,300. While that is still very expensive for a TV, it's a significant discount. Besides, this TV offers more than a quality centerpiece for your home theater system. It has the ability to display images in a way that no other TV can -- but more on that later. For now check out the deals on the 65-inch and 75-inch models if 85 is too much, and be sure to check out Frame TV Black Friday deals for discounts at other retailers.
65-inch The Frame TV -- Audio / Video When it comes to a home theater setup bigger can often mean better. That’s certainly the case with the Samsung QE1C 4K QLED TV, but with this TV bigger also means savings. This 70-inch TV makes for one of the best QLED TV deals available when you purchase directly from Samsung, as it’s marked down an impressive $920 from its regular price of $1,800. This brings its sale price to $880, and Samsung is including free shipping with a purchase.
Why you should buy the Samsung 70-inch QE1C 4K QLED TV Samsung is one of the premier names when it comes to 4K TVs. It almost always seems to place a television amongst the best TVs, and it’s regularly regarded as one of the best TV brands. With the QE1C 4K QLED TV, Samsung offers a range of smart features that include access to Samsung’s gaming hub, as well as easy access to your favorite streaming services. This makes the QE1C a great way to kick back with the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime, Max, and more. It also comes with a SolarCell Remote, which gives you full control of your content and features a solar panel for charging.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
