Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Download YouTube Videos What is YouTube Premium? Price, content, and more Free Movies on YouTube Play YouTube in the Background What is YouTube Music? Home Audio / Video Features Everyone is missing the point on streaming video By Phil Nickinson Close Yes, there are a million ways to watch streaming video. And that’s the way it should be.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends There’s a tremendous amount of gnashing of teeth anytime a streaming service increases its prices. There’s a scramble by media outlets to update SEO-friendly posts and quickly offer alternatives, as if this was all a zero-sum game and you’re able to watch the same things on all the services. Or maybe it’s time to go back to cable altogether because streaming video is just too darn expensive and it’s too hard to find what you want to watch. We’re in one of those times in which it feels like all the services are increasing all the prices, to the extent that Engadget has plainly asked “Is streaming even still worth it?” That is all missing the point. Terribly.
As for the cost of streaming video, nobody likes seeing prices increase (except for the ones doing the increasing, of course). Nobody wants to be told that they’re going to have to pay more than they were before — especially if you’re not getting any more for your money next month than you were the previous month. Nobody wants to be told that they’ll have to pay up instead of freeloading on their parents’ Netflix account.
I get it.
 It’s basic human nature.
But streaming video services aren’t making widgets. And it’s not as simple as saying, “Yeah, we’re going to be more expensive, but we’re also going to give you 100 more shows and movies to pick from.” Because it’s not the number that matters. Hell, it’s not even the quality of the shows and movies that matters. It’s whether the service has the thing that you want to watch. And they don’t have to have all the things you want to watch — just enough to keep you around.
 Or, if you’re smart and come and go a couple times a year, they’re able to schedule things in such a way that they keep you coming back.
It’s also not about the very first-world problem of having too many streaming services — both live and on-demand — so that it’s sort of difficult to figure out where to watch things. Sure, it’s annoying to figure out whether a game is on ESPN, or FS1, or FS2, or ESPN+, or TBS, or TNT, or on Max, or on Paramount+. It’s annoying to figure out if a new movie is streaming on Hulu , or on Netflix, or wherever. But you also can’t trip over a new movie or live sporting event without hitting a thousand search results about how to watch the thing. All you have to do is ask.
And the various streaming platforms are trying to integrate things so that you can just ask them, instead of a search engine in a web browser.
Google TV does it. Amazon Fire TV does it.
Roku does it. Apple TV does it.
No. For my money, here’s why streaming video — with all its faults, and with all its price increases — will keep me from ever going back to cable: It’s all about the flexibility.
An over-the-air antenna can be streamed all over your house. How’s that for blurring the past with the future? Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends If you don’t live in a major metro area, there’s a good chance you only have one option for cable (this argument works the same for satellite, too). That means a single point of failure. That means you’re stuck with their plans, their channels, and their hardware. That means if you want to change things, you have to jump through their hoops. If you’re lucky, you can change things online. But you still might well be left with hardware that has to be returned.
Taking things into your own hands with streaming means you’re going to have to do more work. You’re going to have to figure out which live service has the channels you want. At least YouTube TV — which is still growing — and Hulu With Live TV and all the rest still have some actual honest-to-god competing to do with channel lineups, add-ons, and other incentives. That’s where differentiators like NFL Sunday Ticket really can matter.
You’re going to have to see which services — and how many — will fit into your monthly budget. And you’re going to have to audit those expenses a couple times a year, lest you end up paying far more than you thought you would for services it turns out you’re not really watching that much. It’s a little bit of work, yeah. But it’s also you doing your due diligence when it comes to your expenses.
And you’re also going to have to figure out what hardware you want to do all this on. That’s maybe the easiest part of this whole equation. We’ve got our list of the best streaming hardware out there, but really it’s all about ecosystem. If you’re all-in on Apple, you’ll get the most out of an Apple TV 4K.
 If you’re among the Android faithful, a Chromecast with Google TV should do just fine (even if it’s getting a little long in the tooth). Or you could go with Amazon Fire TV or Roku.
 Or if you really don’t care and you have a relatively recent television, just use whatever is built in. Those are all one-time costs, though, and most don’t even top $100.
And you own that hardware — not a company that’s incentivized to make sure you stay locked in.
Hell, you don’t even have to do any of this if you don’t want to.
FAST services (that’s “free, ad-supported television”) are blurring the lines between linear TV — that is, channels that have everyone watching the same thing at the same time — and on-demand viewing. Toss over-the-air TV into the equation — broadcast channels available via an antenna — and a little video source called YouTube and you can still find plenty to watch without spending anything monthly. (And that’s before we even get close to uttering the word TikTok.) So, yeah. Streaming video is still worth it. It’s not as simple as the olden days when we’d pay one bill for one set of channels and not have anywhere near the same amount of choice as to what we watched — and when and how we watched it. And you can control how little — or how much — you spend on it. Nobody said the future wouldn’t be messy.
But I won’t ever go back to the way it was.
Editors' Recommendations YouTube TV still leads after latest round of streaming numbers Should you buy an obsolete Apple TV? YouTube TV password sharing — is that even a thing? YouTube TV rolls out multiview: watch up to 4 NCAA games at once The most innovative streaming devices of 2022 Amazon Android Apple Apple TV Cord Cutting 101 Features Google Chrome Hulu Netflix Roku Streaming Services TV YouTube Audio / Video It's the simple things that can make all the difference. YouTube TV — the largest live TV streaming service in the U.S. — has added a clock to its live guide.
Why, you ask? So you can see what time it is, of course.
Audio / Video À la carte TV is a myth. The idea that you can subscribe to -- and pay for -- channels individually is just something that the money folks will never let happen. The closest we're going to get is with something like Sling TV, which sports smaller packages with a plethora of add-ons that you can mix and match.
But YouTube TV is now doing something a little different, giving you the opportunity to subscribe to a number of networks on their own without also subscribing to the $65-a-month base YouTube TV plan.
Audio / Video More people "streamed" television in July 2022 than watched on traditional cable TV, according to Nielsen. That's a big deal. Because it means streaming no longer is the future — it's the present.
And I suppose that matters. The question is to whom. Not so much me.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
