Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: What is Roku? Best Roku TVs How to Pair a Roku Remote The Roku Channel How to Use AirPlay on Roku Best Roku Devices Star Button on Roku Remote Home Audio / Video Features Roku and Amazon are so close to making subtitles easy to toggle By Phil Nickinson Close Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends The idea that remote controls should include a dedicated button for captions is not, in and of itself, a bad one. In fact, it makes a whole lot of sense, whether the remote belongs to a television or a peripheral like Roku or Amazon Fire TV. We acknowledge the fact that it would add complexity and, possibly, cost to a device. (And that it’s relatively easy to just flip ’em on and off inside apps as it is.) But we believe it would be worth it.
Amazon Alexa Voice Remote Pro Roku Voice Remote Pro So what went wrong? We didn’t pick Roku and Amazon Fire TV out of thin air in that previous paragraph. They are the two biggest streaming platforms in the world. And as it turns out, they both have remote controls with user-programmable buttons. While that’s not quite the same thing as what we’re imploring the likes of Roku, Amazon, Google, Apple, and others to employ, it’s something that’s available now. (Though the remotes in question aren’t shipped by default with every device — you’ll have to spend more to get them.) The Alexa Voice Remote Pro and the Roku Voice Remote Pro include two buttons that you can program yourself to perform a number of actions. There are limits to the options and what you can do with them, but it’s still better than nothing.
Which streaming platform has the best screensavers? Amazon debuts its first Fire TV soundbar and faster Fire TV sticks Amazon is giving you 6 months of MGM+ when you buy a new Fire TV Here’s the state of play when it comes to the programmable buttons and captions: Amazon Alexa Voice Remote Pro In our Alexa Voice Remote Pro review — yes, we reviewed a little remote control — we were unequivocal in saying that it should just be included in the box of all Amazon Fire TV devices. It’s really good, from the form to the feel to the options.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends There’s good and bad news when it comes to captions, however. The bad news is that there isn’t an obvious “Toggle captions” option for the buttons. That’s a shame and something Amazon should be able to fix relatively easily if it wants.
The good news? There’s a pretty easy workaround, though it does require you to use both buttons. The programmable Alexa Voice Remote can be tasked to repeat a voice command, too. That means you’re not limited to the options presented on the screen when you first attempt to program one of the buttons.
So I hit the Alexa button, said “Turn captions on,” and then held down Button 1 and set it to repeat that action. I then did the same thing for Button 2, programming it to “Turn captions off.” It’s a little clunky, but it works great.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Only one problem here: That scheme works great in the Amazon Prime Video app, but it doesn’t work in every other streaming app I tried. (And that includes the Amazon-owned Freevee.) In other words, a custom function that really only works in a single app isn’t much of a custom button at all.
Roku Voice Remote Pro Things are slightly better when it comes to the Roku Voice Remote Pro.
 Again, this remote doesn’t come with the least-expensive Roku streaming devices, which is a shame. But if you have it, you have two programmable buttons at your disposal.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Like the Alexa Voice Remote, Roku gives you a few options from which to program one of the buttons. But unlike Amazon, one of those options happens to be “Closed captions.” You also can program a voice command, the same as with the Alexa remote, which gives you another avenue to turn on captions or subtitles. (Though I couldn’t get that part to work for some reason.) Setting one of the programmable buttons gives you the option to turn captions off, have them always on, have them on if you hit the replay button on the remote (which takes you back a few seconds), or when the TV is muted.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends That’s pretty handy. But it’s also not universal. It works as intended with Roku’s own video offerings, such as anything you watch on The Roku Channel. It also works on Disney+, Hulu , and ESPN+ — three apps all owned by Disney and which should be using the same tech stack. It also works on Max, the streaming service formerly known as HBO Max, as well as with Paramount+. There may well be other apps on which it works, too — these are just some of the bigger ones I tried.
But it also fails to work on some pretty major apps. YouTube and YouTube TV are out. So, too, are Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, and Apple TV.
So what went wrong? It’s pretty clear that while captions and subtitles are included in all the apps where you’d expect them, there’s not one standard implementation of them within the apps themselves.
That’s something the platforms actually could take care of. There’s a reason developer standards exist, and this is precisely why. Amazon and Roku — and all the other platforms, for that matter — could tell the various video services “You need to code your apps so that if a button press tells an app to turn captions off or on, your app will do so.” It’s a little more complicated than that, of course, especially when you get into the differences between subtitles and captions.
But it’s doable. And even though we’re talking real first-world problems here — it’s not like clicking a remote a few times inside an app to toggle captions is all that difficult — it could go a long way toward, well, something.
At least getting a couple of cranky old writers to settle down.
Editors' Recommendations Everyone is missing the point on streaming video Should you buy an obsolete Apple TV? Everything announced at Amazon’s fall 2023 devices event TV dialogue is getting harder to understand. This change could help.
Amazon Fire TV Channels brings even more free TV to the platform Amazon Cord Cutting 101 Features Roku TV Audio / Video If you needed any more proof that branding is out of control, consider the following sentence: Amazon today announced that more than 100 Amazon Originals, which first appeared on Amazon Prime Video, will be made available for free on Amazon Freevee.
Or, in other words, you'll be able to watch things like The Wheel of Time, Reacher, A League of Their Own, and LuLa Rich — to name but a few — for free, without a subscription to Amazon Prime.
Audio / Video Amazon today announced that it's bolstering the high end of its Fire TV Omni Series line of televisions with new sizes and entry into new international markets, while also bringing new sets to the more affordable side of the equation. And the news comes as the company also announced that it's sold more than 200 million Fire TV devices worldwide. For context, that number was around 150 million in January 2022.
First up: The Audio / Video A select number of Amazon Fire TV devices now support audio streaming to hearing implants, thanks to a partnership between Amazon and Cochlear, the world's largest provider of hearing implants. It lets hearing implant users hear a variety of audio content. Depending on the Fire TV device, that includes streaming movies and shows from Netflix and Amazon Prime Video, podcasts, audiobooks, Alexa voice feedback, system sounds, and audio from local TV networks.
The new feature uses a Bluetooth protocol known as Audio Streaming for Hearing Aids (ASHA), along with special modifications for the specific needs of those who use implants. At the moment, hearing implant streaming is available on Fire TV Omni QLED Series, Fire TV Omni Series, Fire TV 4-Series, Fire TV Cube (3rd Gen), and Fire TV Cube (2nd Gen) devices. It will work with Cochlear Nucleus 8, Nucleus 7, Nucleus Kanso 2, and Baha 6 Max sound processors.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
