Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Why TCL’s 5,000-nit X955 is a brightness bomb of QD-mini-LED By Caleb Denison Close TCL just dropped a bomb on the TV market.
Next-level bonkers A whole lot of nits The bright crystal Onkyo sound More TV models Smart home appliances And NXTPAPER phones Headlining a slate of new product announcements ahead of IFA — the world’s largest consumer electronics show — TCL has announced its new flagship 4K TV model called the X955.
This X955 looks and sounds like a mind-blowing TV, with the kind of specs over which TV enthusiasts salivate. I think it is safe to say we have never seen anything quite like it before. Let’s take a look at the specs and break down what they mean, then take a deeper look at why this TV is likely to make some waves.
Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy TCL’s new QD-Mini LED televisions point to a very bright future TCL’s 2023 mini-LED 4K TVs are shockingly affordable Next-level bonkers The TCL X955 is marketed as a “5000 mini-LED.” But what does that mean, exactly? According to TCL, it means the TV has more than 5,000 local dimming zones — 5,184 to be exact — and is capable of up to 5,000 nits of peak brightness. Please allow me to put that into context for anyone who isn’t super tuned in to the state of today’s TV tech.
The basic breakdown is more backlights, more control, better contrast, better brightness, better picture.
The trend for the best QLED TVs right now is to use mini-LED backlight systems. These work exactly as they sound: very tiny LED backlights illuminating an LCD TV panel that are much smaller than what’s used in a standard LED TV set. Now, because the LEDs are so much smaller, there’s an opportunity to use more of them. And more backlights means more control over how things look. So instead of standard LEDs counted in the low hundreds, we’ve been seeing mini-LEDs counted in the low thousands — which was already a big step up for TV performance.
Not only that but as you increase the number of mini-LED backlights, there’s also an opportunity to break those backlights down into zones that you can turn on and off — we call these local dimming zones. The more zones you have, the more light control you have, and therefore the more contrast you can get — and the most easily recognizable part of picture quality to the human eye is, you guessed it, contrast. So the basic breakdown is more backlights, more control, better contrast, better brightness, better picture.
TCL Mini-LED TV tech already was pretty exciting. But what TCL is announcing here is just next-level bonkers. Let me put the numbers into perspective for you so you can better grasp the gravity of this.
The brightest consumer TV I’ve ever tested came in at about 3,000 nits, with the most recent example being TCL’s QM8 , which was released in North America. The QM8, if you’ve not read my review, offers some of the best contrast, backlight control, and brightness I’ve ever seen from an LCD/LED TV.
This TV could have black levels that are indistinguishable from OLED to most viewers.
The TCL X955 promises to take everything that we thought was amazing about the TCL QM8 and shatter all of it. From 3,000 nits up to 5,000 nits is a massive jump in peak brightness capability. But the zone count jump is almost more exciting to me – the TCL QM8 has 2,300 zones in the 85-inch and up models. This new X955 is well over double that. Honestly, I’m having a hard time wrapping my head around it.
So, the X955 offers over 5,000 dimming zones and up to 5,000 nits — what could this mean for picture quality? Well, with that kind of backlight control — presuming TCL’s AIPQ 3.0 processor performs as expected — this TV could have black levels that are indistinguishable from OLED to most viewers. Perfect black levels are OLED’s most desirable attribute (OLED, of course, can turn each individual pixel off and on). It would be amazing if the X955 can get close to matching that. The numbers support the theory that it would.
TCL A whole lot of nits Then there’s that brightness. Who in the world needs 5,000 nits? Well, you don’t need the TV to be 5,000 nits bright all the time. That actually could be painful. That peak brightness will be reserved for small, bright highlights, like the sun reflecting off the chrome of a car or off the surface of a lake. It will also lead to brighter overall colors, so you can expect for the color on this TV to leap off the screen. But if the TV is capable of 5,000 nits peak, that means its average picture level, or APL, probably is capable of being extremely bright when needed. This means the TV could compete directly with sunlight and still put out a picture that is not only visible under those difficult conditions, but impressive as well.
Perhaps the most exciting aspect of this TV’s high brightness is that it breaks a 4,000-nit barrier that’s existed since the inception of consumer TVs. See, when movies (and some high-production-value TV shows) are mastered for home viewing in HDR , most of them are mastered up to 1,000 nits. A very small handful have been mastered to 4,000 nits, but there’s never been a TV that could get that bright and take advantage of such a range in darkness to brightness. The X955 claims to be capable, and then some. This could push Hollywood to start being a little bit more expressive and creative with their HDR grades for the home version of their movies, and I find that very exciting. We may soon literally see images at home that we’ve never seen before.
TCL X955 TCL Now, this part is super important — right now, the X955 is being made available primarily to the European market. It is not yet currently destined for North America, and models always vary by market. But I think it is safe to hope that, come CES in January, we’re going to be seeing the X955 announced for the U.S. in 2024 (possibly under a differently named model). I’m not making any promises, and TCL is certainly not saying that. But this is how these things often work.
The X955 is available in 85- and 98-inch sizes. Prices are not yet announced.
Looking forward, perhaps the most impactful thing about the X955 is what it could do to the rest of the TV market. TCL is leading the way here, just as it did by introducing the first commercially available mini-LED TVs — now all the major brands use mini-LED backlights in their best TVs. I think TCL will push other brands to reach for the skies as well, It’s likely the X955 is going to be a TV we talk about for a long, long time.
The bright crystal So how did TCL pull off feats other TV makers haven’t yet? Is it just pure brightness muscle? Is it just playing a numbers game and cramming in as many mini-LEDs as it can? No, not exactly. It looks like there are some panel and processing innovations happening here, too.
TCL TCL is using a new six-crystal mini-LED structure that offers more brightness from a smaller mini-LED chip than we’ve seen used before. That is a legit innovation. It also allows the X955 to be an extremely thin TV, which, again, just brings it that much closer to the appeal of an OLED TV.
But in addition to that smaller, brighter backlight, TCL is using a new microlens to focus and distribute that light. This is different than the Micro Lens technology used in the latest OLED TVs in that it isn’t capturing and rerouting rogue light, but it’s instead making sure the light goes precisely where it needs to go with great efficiency. And TCL is talking about how the new six-crystal chip is 30.2% more efficient than previous mini-LED backlights. So, not only will the light be better focused, reducing halo and blooming, but all that extra brightness doesn’t mean your power bill is going to skyrocket. This is important considering the EU’s tightening regulations around out-of-box energy consumption for TVs.
Anyway, those are just some of the picture-quality elements. There is more to a TV than just raw horsepower and handling. If we look closer at the X955, we can see other signs of it being a true flagship product. It’s got a 98% screen ratio, which means that it is virtually bezel-free, as you can see in our video.
Onkyo sound The X955 also is armed with quite an onboard sound system, too. This is something else that has me really excited to check this TV out. TCL has partnered with Onkyo for onboard sound — and for those of you who don’t know, I’m a big Onkyo fan. The Integra A/V receiver I’m using in our labs right now is an Onkyo product, for reference.
TCL TCL describes it as a 4.2.2 audio system that is meant to improve bass response and overall clarity, and add height effects for Dolby Atmos.
 I’m very much looking forward to hearing it myself.
More TV models 1.
TCL C755 2.
TCL C955 TCL’s announcement had some other treats in it as well. The company announced a new C955 for Europe, which looks a lot like the QM8 we have here in the U.S., with over 2,000 local dimming zones and a claimed 2,000 nit peak brightness. This may not be TCL’s flagship for the Euro market, but it does bring all the hotness of the QM8 we have here in the U.S. to Europe, so I think that will be a super-popular model. TCL also announced a C755, which, in the 65-inch size, offers over 500 local dimming zones. And then perhaps the biggest announcement in terms of size is that the EU is also getting a 98-inch C745 model, which TCL promises will be the most affordable 98-inch TV on the market there, though there’s no word on what that actual price is just yet.
Smart home appliances TCL also announced a new line of air conditioners that double as air purifiers, and I think these are going to get a lot of attention in the European market. Plus, frankly, I’m wondering if we’ll get to see those here in the U.S. because with all of the superhot and hazy days filled with wildfire smoke that we have had around North America lately, this sounds like exactly the kind of product we need right now.
TCL TCL also announced a new line of refrigerators designed to keep your food fresher for longer, with some interesting new designs around ionization and sterilization and three different climate control zones. Apparently, the fridge design includes new heat dissipation technology so you don’t need to give it quite so much room to breathe for it to work effectively.
Rounding out the home appliance announcements is a new series of washing machines that are more eco-friendly, quieter, and easier to access. They include new antifungal and anti-funk technologies to keep things smelling fresh – I mean, we all know what can happen when those front loaders don’t get cleaned for a while. These new washer designs can help prevent the buildup of odors in the first place, and that’s just great news for your clothes.
And NXTPAPER phones TCL Finally, TVs aren’t the only place you can find some new TCL tech. Also announced were a pair of new TCL 40 Nxtpaper phones.
 Like everything else announced, these are bound for Europe. But they’re also very much worth a look thanks to their screen tech. That’s the Nxtpaper part, and it’s been used before on tablets and laptops.
The gist is that they’re “e-paper-like” in that they’re supposed to be easier on your eyes while still maintaining brightness, with a sensor adjusting things on the fly.
Editors' Recommendations You Asked: Sonos setups, 5,000 nits, and dumb TVs Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other TCL QM8 Mini-LED TV hands-on impressions: I’m shook TCL QM8 mini-LED TV at CES 2023: a 98-inch giant with a built-in subwoofer TCL’s ultra-slim X9 Google TV packs a soundbar, webcam, and a $10,000 price tag TCL Tech News TV Audio / Video TCL has been teasing us for months, making us wait to hear how much the company will charge for its 8K resolution 6-Series mini-LED QLED TVs. Now we know, and boy, was it worth the wait. The 75-inch model is just $3,000, while the smaller, 65-inch version rings in at $2,200. They both go on sale today with limited availability at major retailers.
To put those prices in perspective, LG and Samsung -- the only other companies that have mini-LED-based 8K TVs in 2021 -- charge $3,500 for their most affordable 65-inch models and $4,800 for their 75-inch models.
Audio / Video While Samsung's QLED displays continue to do battle with LG's OLED panels for dominance in the living room, it may be time to welcome a new contender. At CES 2020, TCL has taken the wraps off its Vidrian Mini-LED display technology, which incorporates tens of thousands of mini LEDs into a clear glass substrate. It's an advancement over the company's first 8-Series 4K mini LED display, which it introduced in 2019.
"When combined with TCL’s big-screen 8K LCD panels," the company's press release reads, "this advanced backlight technology will enable consumers to enjoy immersive entertainment in all lighting conditions, from being enveloped in a movie in the darkest of home theaters to being thrilled by a daytime ball game in a sunlit living room." Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
