Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Hisense U7G 4K HDR TV review: Confidently click ‘buy now’ By Caleb Denison Close $900.00 Impressive brightness Solid black levels Excellent backlight control Great for gaming Easy setup Poor off-angle performance Potential dirty screen effect My pick for the best TV under $1,000 has gone to a TCL TV for the past few years, but this year, Hisense at the very least co-owns that coveted spot with its U7G 4K ULED TV. Priced well below $1K, this TV outperforms my expectations at nearly every turn — and that’s through the lens of a very picky TV enthusiast (me).
Out of the box U7G Series details Setup Measurements/specs Backlight and black levels Motion and processing Gaming Bonus features Our take For most folks, the U7G is absolutely a no-brainer pick. Here’s why.
Out of the box Riley Young/Digital Trends Over the course of my 29 years in the field of consumer electronics, I have preached that a heavy device is a premium device. Of course, there are limits to that notion — you don’t want a 25-pound pair of headphones.
 But, by and large, the best devices in any given category tend to have some heft because, even in this digital age, quality components tend to weigh more than cheap components.
Hisense’s mini-LED U6K TV arrives, starting at $500 You can now buy Walmart’s crazy-cheap 4K Android TV streamer You don’t need to spend a fortune on a 43-inch 4K TV — here’s proof By that measure, the Hisense U7G wouldn’t be considered a premium TV. It’s astonishingly light. So much so that I had real concerns about its overall build quality and its potential to impress me with its performance. But as I’ve been very easily moving the U7G around from spot to spot in my testing lab, I’ve determined that this TV is built just fine and should stand the test of time.
Riley Young/Digital Trends As a bonus, the U7G is a cinch to assemble and mount on the wall. There are just a couple of feet to install for stand mounting, and for those who will use a media center or credenza, the U7G’s footprint spans 47.75-inches wide by 10.5-inches deep.
In the box with the TV are the feet, screws for the feet, a Google voice remote, batteries for the remote, and a smattering of paper-printed product literature that one probably doesn’t need.
U7G Series details While we reviewed the 65-inch 65U7G model, our review also applies to the other screen sizes available in the series.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 55-inch 55U7G $700 65-inch 65U7G $900 75-inch 75U7G $1,200 Setup Riley Young/Digital Trends One of the things I enjoy most about Hisense TVs is their ease of setup — specifically in regards to getting the right picture mode presets for all the various inputs and streaming apps on board.
I realize a lot of folks buy a TV, plug it in, turn it on, endure the requisite setup wizard, and then promptly go about watching TV without ever touching the picture settings. This is a shame. To get the best picture out of any TV — and especially the Hisense U7G — it pays to take a little time to at least make a few easy adjustments.
By default, the TV will be in a standard picture preset, which may ultimately suit your taste, but the TV will also be in an energy-saving mode which I highly encourage users to turn off right away. This eco setting will cap the TV’s peak brightness, and if one doesn’t turn this off, they’ll never know what their TV can really do.
Once the TV’s eco mode is disabled, I would also suggest turning off motion smoothing. While motion smoothing is helpful for some fast-moving sports content, it makes movies and some TV shows look artificial, introducing soap opera effect, which I consider dreadful. Not everyone agrees with me on this, however, so if you like the smooth-looking motion, feel free to leave it turned on — just know that I will never come over to watch TV with you.
Personally, I think the pro move is to select Theater Day as the picture mode. If the color temperature looks a little warm to you or it seems as if the picture isn’t as vibrant, that’s normal. Give your eyes a chance to get used to it. I think you’ll find it looks a lot more authentic. Theater Day also give you the best brightness output for SDR content without having to mess with any other settings.
Riley Young/Digital Trends Once Theater Day is selected for one HDMI input, it will be selected for the others as well. And if you select Theater Day in one streaming app, it will be the default for other streaming apps (again, this is for SDR content). Most TVs don’t offer this convenience, which is why I praise Hisense for making TV setup easy.
For HDR content, I suggest selecting HDR Theater, and I recommend Dolby Vision Custom for Dolby Vision.
 Again, once these picture modes are selected for one HDMI input or one streaming app, they will be applied across the board.
One final note on setup: The Android TV /Hisense setup wizard is going to throw a lot of privacy-related questions your way. Take a moment to read this stuff and choose wisely depending on how comfortable you are with data collection on your viewing habits. Also know that you can choose to keep your viewing data for yourself, but it will be at the expense of relevant content suggestions.
Measurements/specs Riley Young/Digital Trends As is my custom for TV reviews, I used a Spectracal C6 colorimeter profiled to an X-Rite i1Pro spectrometer, along with Calman Ultimate software, to measure the U7G’s out-of-the-box performance before I made any detailed adjustments. Since few people are going to pay to have a TV like this calibrated, I think these numbers are the most valuable.
I checked peak luminance performance for SDR in Theater Night (283 nits) and Theater Day (566 nits). Theater Day looks just bright enough to offer a good-looking picture in a room with a moderate amount of daylight coming in. This is not mind-blowing brightness, but definitely above par for TVs priced below $1K. The backlight setting can be bumped up to increase brightness in brighter rooms, but the black levels will take a hit and start looking a little grayish.
For the HDR Theater mode, I got between 930 and 950 nits depending on how long I had been testing peak brightness. I consider just under 1,000 nits in HDR to be a good measurement for a TV in this price class. That’s definitely bright enough to make HDR look like HDR and, again, that’s above par for a TV in this price class.
Interestingly, I found that the HDR standard mode didn’t get any brighter than HDR Theater. This is atypical and yet another reason for me to recommend the HDR Theater setting.
I also checked the U7G’s out-of-box two-point grayscale performance and found it was impeccable. And I don’t just mean on point for Hisense, I mean the grayscale was at Sony A80J levels of accuracy. I expected this to translate into excellent color accuracy, but oddly enough, that didn’t turn out to be the case.
Normally, accurate grayscale means the colors are going to track well, but technically speaking, the TV has color errors that go into the visible spectrum. However, they are not so significant that I think most viewers would notice.
Given the TV is so inexpensive, a videophile on a budget might do well to pick up the U7G and have a professional calibrate the color. For the modest increase in overall cost of ownership, I think the return might be worth it to the right person. Most folks, however, will be pleased as punch with the color, if not downright impressed.
Backlight and black levels Riley Young/Digital Trends I am extremely impressed with the Hisense U7G’s backlight performance. I witnessed little to no crushing of blacks (where dark grays/shadow detail is represented as black). There was also surprisingly little blooming and halo effect around bright objects on dark backgrounds, which is impressive when considering how bright the TV can get.
I have a new favorite piece of content for checking black levels, shadow detail, blooming, and halo effect all at once: Night on Earth , which is available on Netflix. I watch the show with closed captions turned on and I will quickly learn just about everything I need to know about a TV’s backlight control and black level performance..
The great thing about this Netflix nature docuseries is that it is filmed almost entirely at night — hence the title. They use special cameras and technology to capture night images — action in nature that’s never before been seen. The show, on average, is extremely dark, except where it isn’t, which makes for one hell of a torture test, and let me tell you the U7G passed the test with ease.
Riley Young/Digital Trends I observed almost no perceivable blooming from the edges of the TV or halos around bright objects, the best test of which is around the closed captions, which are bright white on an almost jet black background. It’s rare that I’m not distracted by a backlight system when watching dark content, but the U7G had me simply enjoying the content — that’s a big endorsement.
HDR highlights were exactly what I expected/wanted for a TV in this price range. I think the U7G tracks a little high on the brightness curve in terms of accuracy, but it is enjoyable. The U7G reminds me of some Samsung TVs in that regard, but with better blacks for the price.
HDR had pop, and I enjoyed it.
Motion and processing Motion performance was good — right in the midrange overall. I did see a little bit of stutter and flicker with vertically panned shots, but it wasn’t a consistent problem. Motion issues didn’t occur often enough for me to get upset, which means I think most folks will be very pleased with this TVs presentation.
Upscaling and processing, in general, were just OK. The U7G doesn’t clean up noise as well as, say, a Sony TV, but then again, most TVs don’t. In particular, I noted a little bit of color banding in low bit-depth content from streaming services.
 The U7G isn’t going to make Bob Ross on PBS look like a 4K studio master, but it does just fine for the kind of content most folks are going to watch today. For the price, I couldn’t ask for any better. One would have to pay a LOT more to get better processing, so again, I’ll hand it to Hisense for finding a good balance.
Gaming Riley Young/Digital Trends According to the Xbox Series X 4K TV details, the Hisense U7G supports just about every gaming parameter available, including variable refresh rate. I was not expecting VRR on this TV, but when I enabled it on the Xbox Series X , I got no argument. What a pleasant surprise! I was only able to verify HDMI VRR and FreeSync support for the U7G — the jury is still out on G-Sync for PC gamers.
The U7G is going to be great for gamers. The input lag is super low (below 15 milliseconds for 4K and about 7ms for 1080p and VRR) and the HDR images are fantastic. There’s great shadow detail and very little motion blur. All the crucial elements are there for a great gaming TV.
Bonus features The Hisense U7G is an Android TV with Google Assistant support and support for Google smart home devices. It’s not as fancy a platform as Google TV , and the U7G has no hope of being upgraded to Google TV in the future, but Android TV is a solid platform that will work well for years.
Our take The U7G, right now, is the best TV you can buy for under $1,000. That honor was once shared with the TCL R645, however, that TV’s price has soared due to supply chain issues, so for now, the U7G owns that title. I’d also have to call the U7G the best TV for enthusiasts who don’t have big budgets. This TV proves you can have excellent picture quality and not spend a small fortune.
Is there a better alternative? At the price point, no. The U7G offers a unique value in 2021. However, the Hisense U8G offers just slightly higher performance (brightness) for $100 to $200 more.
How long will it last? The Hisense U7G, from a performance and features standpoint, is positioned to function well for several years. Hisense provides a one-year parts and labor warranty for its TVs provided they are used in a non-commercial setting.
Should you buy it? Yes. The U7G is a great TV. It’s low price makes it a no-brainer buy.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense kicks off its U8K mini-LED TV availability with deep discounts Hisense debuts its first 8K Roku TV, the 75-inch U800GR TCL rolls out 4K HDR Android TV models starting at $200 You can currently buy a 70-inch Samsung 4K TV for less than $550 Android Hisense Product Reviews TV Reviews Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals and Amazon Black Friday deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals, 55-inch TV Black Friday deals 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
