Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Hisense U7H (65U7H) review: punching above its weight By Caleb Denison Close $800.00 Great color accuracy Solid HDR Punch Impressive black levels Runs Google TV well Outstanding value Motion not as smooth as pricier TVs Glut of ads on YouTube I’ve given the Hisense U8H a lot of praise and recommended it as a top pick in its price class.
 But the ever-so-slightly lesser Hisense U7H reviewed here surprised me so much that I’ve had to spend some time re-evaluating my recommendations. The U7H is so much better than I expected that it has me wondering if it might actually be the better TV pick for most people.
Video review Series and size details Picture quality Gaming Sound quality Final take Before we dig in, there are two important things to keep in mind. First, I want to point out that the 65-inch Hisense U8H sells for around $900 as of the latest update to this review, while the 65-inch inch U7H is going for about $750. That price gap is worth keeping in mind as we go forward. I also need to point out that this review is for the U7H as sold in North America; the U7H in other international markets is a completely different TV.
Hisense’s mini-LED U6K TV arrives, starting at $500 Hisense debuts its first 8K Roku TV, the 75-inch U800GR Also, in conjunction with its recently formed partnership with the NBA, Hisense ULED TVs will now be prominently featured at Best Buy stores across North America, where comparing ULED models will now be made much easier.
Video review Series and size details While we reviewed the 65-inch 65U7H model, our review also applies to the 55-inch and 75-inch models.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 55-inch 55U7H 65-inch 65U7H 75-inch 75U7H Picture quality Good enough to surprise you If you’re about to upgrade from a non- HDR TV, be it 4K or 1080p, the Hisense U7H’s picture quality is going to impress you. It offers sufficient brightness to deliver impactful HDR highlights and higher color brightness than non- HDR TVs while maintaining deep enough black levels to pull off impressive contrast. The U7H’s out-of-box color accuracy on the sample I received for review delivered shockingly good color accuracy with no adjustment. And while motion resolution was not quite as smooth as, say, the more expensive TCL 6-Series TV, it is still better than most low- to mid-lier televisions. Dollar per dollar, the U7H is one of the most impressive TVs you can buy this year. Below, I’ve detailed some of the measurements I took on the U7H and placed them in context with other TVs I’ve reviewed this year.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Brightness and black levels I measured the Hisense U7H’s peak brightness in SDR at just over 800 nits. This was in Filmmaker mode with the backlight setting maxed out. In HDR, I measured sustained peak brightness at around the same 800-nit level, 819 to be exact, with peaks coming in just under 1,000 nits. The U7H comes in well under the more expensive U8H in terms of peak brightness performance, and in a side-by-side comparison, it’s clear the U7H doesn’t have quite as much punch in bright highlights and color brightness, but that speaks more to the U8H’s insanely bright picture quality for its price than the U7H, which remains one of the brighter TVs in its price segment.
Bear in mind that I believe 1,000-nits peak brightness is the bar for whether an LCD-based TV really delivers a meaningful HDR experience. An LCD TV’s black levels generally are not as good as an OLED TV panel , so they need a bit more brightness to really sell that HDR contrast.
The U7H has it where it counts.
This leads me to what’s really surprising about the U7H. Unlike the U8H, this TV does not have a mini-LED backlight system.
 So in addition to lowering expectations around peak brightness, I also had lowered expectations about the overall black level and how much blooming control the TV could exert. But the U7H is remarkably impressive in the backlight control department. It passes our usual torture tests with impressive authority. I was never bothered by blooming — that murky halo of light around a bright object on a black background. There is some here, but it is not distracting. Even off-axis the blooming isn’t as apparent as I’m used to.
The result of the decent peak brightness and good backlight control is a quite-good HDR presentation. Part of that is aided by the U7H’s mostly solid tone mapping, by which I mean that it retains details in the bright highlights well. It’s not as good at maintaining shadow details, but the low-luminance performance is definitely good for a TV at this price and even stacks up well against more expensive TVs.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In short, The U7H has it where it counts.
Color and white balance Now I want to talk about color. I’m not kidding here — I was blown away by the color measurements I got. In fact, the accuracy was so suspiciously good that I did a hard factory reset on this TV, then ran a firmware update, then tested again just to see if I got the same results.
This kind of out-of-the-box color performance is virtually unheard of for a TV at this price.
The results were phenomenal.
In SDR, the color checker errors averaged out below 3, which is technically not perceptible to the human eye — and that was with zero adjustments to white balance. The max error was under 4, so even the worst color error is hardly worth talking about. In HDR, I got the same results.
This kind of out-of-the-box color performance is virtually unheard of for a TV at this price, and in fact, it makes me want to go back and measure the U8H again because I don’t think the more expensive TV performed this well.
As for the white balance on the U7H, I barely had to touch it to get to D65, which is the Hollywood reference standard. In the low color temperature, which is meant to be “warm” it had a little too much blue in it, which is typical. I backed the blue gain down a few points in SDR and HDR, and the errors were barely over 1. That’s just ridiculously good from a measurement perspective.
It’s entirely possible that the review sample sent to me had received special hard calibration (performed at the hardware rather than software level) by Hisense before it was delivered to me, but even if it had, my results prove that the TV is capable of achieving incredibly good performance with a calibration, which can not be said of all TVs at this price level, let alone TVs costing more. As always, the performance of one retail TV to another will have subtle variations.
Motion When I tested the U8H and U7H, I noted an odd shimmering effect when watching certain high-resolution HDR content on YouTube. The effect is documented in the video at the top of this post. After further testing, I have determined this shimmer is related to the content and not the TV’s performance. While the shimmer effect (as I’ve come to call it) is present on TVs from other brands, it isn’t as apparent. This may speak to a combination of factors, including both sets’ higher brightness, pixel response time, and processing. Given it rarely shows up, I don’t consider this to be a significant enough issue to reduce the TVs’ scores.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In other matters of motion, I feel like without any motion smoothing on, the U7H doesn’t look as smooth and natural as, say, the TCL 6-Series , but then again neither did the U8H, so no real change there. I am curious to see how a 2022 TCL 5-Series might stack up, but that TV has not yet been announced.
The U7H is a remarkable performer across the board.
So, if we package all those numbers up into a takeaway, I think what you need to know is that the U7H is a remarkable performer across the board. Way better than I expected in black levels, contrast, and color accuracy. It lacks the muscular punch you get in the U8H but is otherwise dangerously close in performance to that more expensive TV.
Gaming For gaming, the U7H is similarly outfitted as the U8H, with two 4K 120Hz HDMI inputs, variable refresh rate, very low input lag, an auto-game mode, and it lights up all the green check marks on an Xbox Series X.
 But while we’re talking about unlocking the most potential from your game console or PC, I still don’t like that we have to press this one button on the remote to access the HDMI-enhanced mode to unlock all of those features. Though to Hisense’s credit, when there’s no signal going to one of those ports, there is a message that suggests you do exactly that, although it doesn’t go into which button to push.
Sound quality The speakers on the U7H deliver sound that is surprisingly decent, especially in the bass, which helps give the TV a much fuller sound than most. It’s not fantastic, but it’s not flat-out terrible either, which is a big bonus. Still, I would definitely look to invest in a soundbar to make this a much better home theater experience.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Final take When I take everything into consideration, I think we’re looking at a TV that offers almost everything the more expensive step-up model does, except the more powerful brightness. Everything else is practically the same. I think people who really want a super bright TV – and I mean super-duper bright, might be satisfied with spending a bit more for the U8H. But for most consumers, I think the U7H is the smarter buy. I know that the price gap isn’t huge, but it’s nothing to dismiss, either.
The U7H is just so much better than I expected, I think it deserves a lot of attention. If you don’t consider yourself a videophile on a budget and you just want the best picture you can get for your money, I think the U7H is the real value leader right now.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense kicks off its U8K mini-LED TV availability with deep discounts Hisense announces its own Fire TV, starting at $530 Hisense Product Reviews TV Reviews Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
