Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Hisense U8H mini-LED TV review: a budget videophile’s dream By Caleb Denison Close $1,399.99 Intensely bright Class-leading black levels Impressive HDR imaging Vibrant, accurate Color Surprisingly Good Sound Quirky user interface Some bugs Hisense once again has shattered my expectations.
Video review Out of the box Hisense U8H QLED Series details Setup and user interface Hisense U8H measurements Picture quality Sound quality Gaming Reservations The takeaway The Hisense U8H is the company’s first mini-LED television. Since I’d yet to be impressed with any TV brand’s first attempt at the next-gen LED backlighting tech, I figured I already had good reason to temper my expectations. Add to that the fact that Hisense’s TVs haven’t historically produced what I’d call “accurate” picture quality — at least not without considerable tweaking — and I thought I had enough experience to suggest I knew the U8H before I’d unboxed it.
I was so very, utterly wrong.
The Hisense U8H is the sort of TV that makes a mockery of much more expensive TVs that literally pale in comparison. You can spend more than double on a TV from Samsung, Sony, or LG and still not get as powerfully bright and arrestingly deep a picture as this TV puts out. That being the case, you’d think the U8H would easily earn my enthusiastic recommendation. Unfortunately, this TV has a few quirks that give me pause. Read on to find out if the Hisense U8H might be right for you.
Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Hisense just debuted the world’s largest mini-LED TV at 100 inches Walmart TV deals: 55-inch 4K TV for under $250 and more Update 6.1.2023: Since publishing this review, Hisense has inked a partnership deal with the NBA and has reduced sale prices on its ULED TVs. In conjunction with this NBA partnership, Hisense ULED TVs will now be prominently featured inside Best Buy stores across North America, making a comparison of its ULED models more convenient.
Video review Out of the box From the front, the Hisense U8H is a familiar-looking TV: barely visible bezels on the top and sides, a slim silver strip along the bottom with Hisense’s logo stamped in the middle, and a pair of unassuming legs that can be placed in a narrow or wide stance, depending on how wide your media stand may be.
From the back, it’s immediately clear Hisense aimed to do something different with this TV’s audio system. Smack in the middle of the back cover is a huge, oval grill covering a speaker of some sort. Turns out, it’s the TV’s “subwoofer,” and it is indeed a foreshadowing of some very loud things to come.
Previous Next 1 6 Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Included with the TV is a Google TV-style remote control with provided batteries. The remote is technically backlit, but not in a helpful way. The backlighting is extremely dim and only lasts for a couple of seconds before dimming. If you don’t already know where the button you want to press is located, the remote’s backlight isn’t going to be of any help.
Hisense U8H QLED Series details While we reviewed the 65-inch 65U8H model, our review also applies to the 55- and 75-inch models, both of which also use VA LCD panels and have backlighting systems commensurate with their screen sizes.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 55-inch 55U8H 65-inch 65U8H 75-inch 75U8H Setup and user interface Since the U8H is a Google TV running on Android OS, the basic setup process can be extremely easy — provided you have a Google account and are willing to use the Google Home app on your mobile device. If you’re resistant to that idea, then you’ll have to spend some bonus time with the clicker.
The U8H has a user interface that, at times, can be a bit frustrating.
It should be noted that as a Google TV , the U8H also can be operated as a dumb TV. That is, you’ll not use any of the TV’s built-in apps, voice control, etc., you’ll just use the remote to access HDMI ports and possibly the TV’s tuner, then enjoy content through whatever device(s) you’ve connected to the TV.
Once the breezy affair of basic setup is over and you start the work of customizing the TV’s picture and sound settings … let’s just say that “issues” start to emerge.
The U8H, like most of Hisense’s TVs, has a native user interface that, at times, can be a bit frustrating. While navigating through the TV’s various options is generally quite snappy, the user interface may occasionally freeze up and take a few seconds to catch up and return to normal operation. This is an intermittent enough issue that I can look past it. But from there, the frustrations mount. Mostly because I think the user has to do too much work to get the most out of the TV.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Rather than simply complain, here’s what I suggest all U8H owners do to get the most out of the TV: Under the picture preset menu, select any mode other than “Energy Saving.” I personally prefer Filmmaker Mode, Theater Day, and Theater Night, but any mode other than Energy Saving will unlock the TV’s full brightness potential Repeat this process while watching SDR, HDR, and Dolby Vision content through both streaming apps and any device connected via an HDMI port If you don’t choose the “apply to all inputs” option, you’ll need to repeat this process for each device connected to an HDMI input Under the Backlight setting menu, consider disabling the Ambient Light Sensor This setting allows the TV to adjust its brightness based on ambient light conditions. In most cases, it too severely caps the TV’s peak brightness ability For any 4K HDR source, but especially next-gen gaming consoles, you’ll need to enable HDMI Enhanced mode This option can only be accessed using the Quick menu button on the remote, located on the far left, just above the Netflix button Repeat this process for each HDMI input, as needed While this may not read like a lot of work, it does take a while. Plus, you need to be something of an expert to know that this work needs to be done at all, never mind how buried some of it can be. As such, I’m concerned not everyone who purchases the U8H will get the experience they deserve — an experience the TV is capable of delivering, but only with very specific adjustments.
Hisense U8H measurements One of the things that impressed me most about Hisense TVs in the past is their tendency to underpromise and overdeliver. In other words, the TV’s real-world performance exceeds that which is promised on the box and on spec sheets. The U8H continues this trend in a big way.
When measuring the U8H’s peak brightness — which Hisense claims to be 1,500 nits — I found that it exceeded that mark handily. In HDR , the TV delivered just over 2,000 nits as measured with a Spectracal C6 Colorimeter run by Calman Ultimate calibration software. The C6 can only read up to 2,000 nits, so it’s possible the TV was even brighter. I’ll amend this section once I’ve tested it with a more capable spectroradiometer. Regardless, the UH8’s performance far exceeds Hisense’s own claims.
In SDR Filmmaker Mode, the TV put out about 1,200 nits, and it could have gone even brighter in another picture mode. At full-screen white, the U8H put out 1,000 nits, which is unheard of. Suffice it to say that the U8H is the most qualified “bright room TV” I’ve had the pleasure of testing.
Blooming and halo effect on the U8H is virtually non-existent.
Color performance in Filmmaker Mode (which is meant to be the most accurate out-of-the-box picture preset) was admirable, with color errors just barely edging into visible territory. With a very minor adjustment to the TV’s 2-point white balance, the color accuracy in SDR and HDR was among the best I’ve seen from any TV, including those that cost two to three times more than the U8H. Again, my expectations were handily exceeded.
Blooming and halo effect on the U8H are virtually non-existent. In general, the U8H’s mini-LED backlight system control appeared to be very responsive. Paired with the TV’s high brightness, the resulting picture offered eye-popping contrast. In fact, the black levels appeared so good, that I’d say the U8H treads into OLED TV territory.
Black level and low luminance color measurements, however, point to some crushing of the blacks and color errors in dimmer scenes. While the measurements are accurate for test patterns, I’ve not convinced the readings I got bear out in real-world content viewing. Subjectively, the TV did not show obvious signs of crushed blacks, nor were colors visibly off to the naked eye.
Picture quality When viewing 4K content, be it in SDR, HDR , or Dolby Vision , the Hisense U8H’s picture quality is nothing short of stunning. Again, with 4K content, I’d put the U8H up against $3,000 mini-LED TVs from Samsung, Sony, and LG, and challenge anyone to justify the added expense charged by those three brands. I’m flabbergasted by what Hisense is offering for the 65-inch U8H’s $1,400 MSRP, and in flat-out disbelief that the 65-inch model is already available for under $1,000. The term “value” fails to encapsulate what the U8H has to offer.
With lower resolution content, however, the Hisense U8H starts to show that it doesn’t have processing chops as fine-tuned as its more expensive competition. By no means is the picture quality poor, but the U8H isn’t able to render 1080p, 1080i, and 720P resolution content as cleanly as, say, a Sony X95K or Samsung QN90B.
 That being the case, the truly terrible quality of some cable signals is readily apparent.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends To be honest, it’s hard to know how hard to knock the U8H over this. While 4K content is abundant now — with hundreds of titles available to stream via Netflix, HBO Max, Disney+ and many other apps — and even non- 4K content from the basic tier of apps like Hulu and Paramount+ looks very good without the help of advanced processing, I’m aware that many folks still get their content from cable providers, and those lossy, low bit-depth signals don’t look all that great without some help from the TV to make them look better. The Hisense U8H can make crappy cable look a little bit better than it is by nature, but I fear not well enough to satisfy those who have seen better — especially if they are stepping up in size from a smaller TV, where the larger screen size makes some of these issues more apparent.
One other note: The U8H’s motion resolution for content delivered at 60Hz or less leaves a little something to be desired. Unless motion smoothing of the heaviest degree is engaged (thereby introducing Soap Opera Effect), there’s noticeable stutter in bright objects during heavy panning scenes.
Sound quality The Hisense U8H’s onboard sound system is far more robust than found in most TVs and, as a result, the U8H does indeed sound better than most TVs. In fact, it sounds pretty good! I’d still get a soundbar, though. This TV deserves to sound as grand as its picture.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends I can best describe the U8H’s sound quality as “meaty.” The built-in subwoofer found on the back of the TV adds a lot of depth and punch to the sound, giving it more presence than TVs that try to eek any amount of bass out of two tiny speakers buried at the bottom of the TV cabinet. I also feel like the U8H occasionally has a decent stereo field, with sound effects coming from well beyond the borders of the TV. As TV sound goes, it’s easily in the 90th percentile. But because the picture is so good, I think the sound should be at least as impressive, if not more impressive. As such, I suggest a soundbar.
 I think most users, though, will be impressed with the TV’s onboard audio.
Gaming The Hisense U8H has just about everything a console gamer could want: two HDMI 2.1 inputs, 120Hz refresh rate, VRR (variable refresh rate) and Freesync Premium, and input lag hovering around just 8ms. It’s also got an auto game mode built in, and the picture settings in the TV’s game mode make for a fairly accurate picture as well. With plenty of high-brightness and high-contrast HDR punch and solid 4K resolution, the video game experience is as beautiful to look at as it is responsive to play. Most gamers will be thrilled with the U8H.
Reservations At this point, you might think a hearty recommendation of the U8H would be forthcoming — and it is — but it took more deliberation than you might think.
I’ve noticed that with some Hisense TVs of the past, the smart TV interface tended to get more sluggish over time. I’m optimistic this won’t be the case with Hisense’s 2022 TV since they are much snappier and more stable than prior year models. Still, having had that prior experience compels me to mention it.
Only time will prove whether the U8H will continue to perform this well into the future.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Hopefully, the U8H will get needed future updates. In the end, I’m going to go ahead and recommend the U8H because the experience I have had over the past few days and continue to have to this day has been excellent. Only time will prove whether the U8H will continue to perform this well into the future — a statement I suppose can be made about many of today’s TVs.
The takeaway The Hisense U8H offers tremendous brightness, contrast, and color performance. Its display of 4K content in SDR, HDR , and Dolby Vision is as good if not better than that of TVs that cost two or three times as much. It’s also an excellent choice for gamers, and it sounds great to boot. Where the U8H struggles is with cleaning up lower-resolution content and resolving some low frame rate motion.
With that disclosed, the U8H’s overall performance for the price can only be described as flabbergasting.
The U8H is a flabbergastingly good TV. Print that on the box.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other Samsung scales its Terrace outdoor TV to 85 inches with mini-LEDs Hisense kicks off its U8K mini-LED TV availability with deep discounts Hisense’s mini-LED U6K TV arrives, starting at $500 Hisense Product Reviews TV Reviews Audio / Video In May, TCL stunned us with the price of its new Q Class QM8 98-inch TV. At a mere $10,000, it was far less than the cheapest comparable model from Samsung. Today, Samsung is answering that challenge with an impressively low-priced 98-inch model of its own: the , which will be available starting in July for $8,000.
Audio / Video When it comes to TV technology, Hisense is all-in on mini-LED backlit QLED TVs. The company, which is known for its affordable yet dazzlingly bright TVs, has just revealed its brightest creation yet at CES 2023: the UX, an 85-inch 4K mini-LED QLED TV that is powered by Hisense's new ULED X platform and features more than 20,000 mini-LEDs, which give the UX a claimed peak brightness of 2,500 nits. The company's previous brightest TV, the U8H, had a claimed 1,500 nits but measured closer to 2,000.
That's going to be a very bright display, but Hisense says it can also exert a lot of control over that brightness thanks to more than 5,000 local dimming zones. “Our engineers were tasked with making the best LED TV available, and they delivered with ULED X,” said David Gold, President of Hisense USA, in an emailed press release.
Audio / Video In what can only be characterized as an epic play of one-upmanship, Samsung has just announced a new addition to its 2022 4K TV lineup, and it is massive.
Unveiled in Dallas, Texas at the 2022 CEDIA Expo, the new 98-inch Neo QLED 4K TV uses mini-LED backlight technology and is equipped to be Samsung's highest-performing 4K TV to date. Previously, Samsung's 4K TV lineup was headlined by the QN95B and QN90B. The new 98-inch model uses the same processing and panel technology but has a more powerful backlight system.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
