Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LG G2 OLED TV review: a truly elevated OLED TV By Caleb Denison Close $3,199.99 Class-leading brightness Outstanding color accuracy Perfect black levels Top choice for gamers Top-notch design Disappointing stand-mount option The problem with reviewing TVs is that sometimes you get one that’s so deeply enjoyable to watch that you kind of, you know, forget that you’re supposed to be working and end up just watching TV for a bunch of hours. That’s what happened to me with the LG G2 OLED Evo TV. Perhaps not my most productive work moment, but I think it says a lot about this TV.
Video review LG G2 Series details The LG G2 OLED is loaded to the hilt Performance by the numbers Brighter whites. But brighter colors? Forget the numbers, trust your eyes But is it a good bright-room TV? Our take Part of LG’s Gallery Series, The G2 OLED Evo is the best 4K OLED TV LG has made to date. It’s in contention for the best TV of 2022, so I hope I’ll be forgiven for spending a little extra time simply enjoying it on the company’s dime.
Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 While the LG G2’s picture quality is certainly stunning, it may not be the right TV for you. In this review, I’m going to cover what’s good, great, and even stupendous about the LG G2 OLED TV. (And let’s not get it confused with the old LG G2 Android phone ; this most certainly is not that.) But I’m also going to dig into the reasons it may not be the best candidate for everyone. In the end, I hope you’ll know whether it might be right for your home entertainment.
Video review LG G2 Series details While we reviewed the 65-inch G2 model, our review also applies to the 55-inch, 75-inch and 83-inch models.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 55-inch OLED55G2PUA 65-inch OLED65G2PUA 75-inch OLED77G2PUA 83-inch OLED83G2PUA The LG G2 OLED is loaded to the hilt The list of the LG G2’s admirable attributes is long. It’s got four HDMI 2.1 inputs, it looks stunning mounted on the wall with the no-gap wall mount that’s included in the box, and it is indeed LG’s brightest OLED TV to date thanks to LG’s OLED EVO technology — a blend of hardware and software efforts that, in the case of the G2, happens to include a heat sink in the panel that allows the TV to reach high brightness levels while also reducing the risk of permanent image retention — burn-in.
If the idea is to deliver on creative intent, then LG is very much standing toe-to-toe with Sony As an OLED TV, the LG G2 offers pitch-black black levels, setting the foundation for eye-popping contrast. LG’s processing has gotten very strong lately, which makes for solid motion performance, minimal noise and artifacts, and very smart use of its peak brightness capabilities. In other words, the G2 doesn’t just get bright for brightness’ sake — although you can force it to do so. However, in its most accurate picture preset modes, it resolves bright highlight detail in a way that is reminiscent of Sony’s TVs.
If the idea is to deliver on creative intent, then LG is very much standing toe-to-toe with Sony in that regard, even if that isn’t one of the G2’s primary marketing lines.
As far as bells and whistles go, the G2 is loaded with them. Voice control, automatic source detection, smart-home integration, and more gamer-friendly features than any other brand, including Nvidia G-Sync, AMD Free-sync, and generic Variable Refresh Rate support which, along with those four HDMI 2.1 inputs , low input lag, and a gaming dashboard, culminates in a highly attractive list of features for gamers who want it all, even if they aren’t likely to use it all.
My only real complaint about this TV is its stand-mount option. The stand is something you purchase separately since LG intends for this TV to be mounted on the wall (hence the inclusion of said wall mount in the box). However, I don’t like how the stand fits, feels, or works. I’m not a fan of the steep, raked back angle in which it positions the TV, either.
Riley Young/Digital Trends If asked, I think LG might go so far as to suggest that if you want a stand-mounted TV, then its less expensive C2 model would be a better option. My problem with that philosophy is that the G2 is a brighter, higher-performance TV, so someone may want it for more than just its inherently slick wall-mount design.
There’s one other factor that might count as a negative for some people, but I’m going to get to that in a moment.
Performance by the numbers For my measurements, I more or less stuck to the typically accurate “Filmmaker Mode” for SDR and HDR content, although I am also a fan of the color-accurate “ISF Bright” and “ISF Dark” modes available. My choice to stick primarily to Filmmaker mode boils down to the fact that it has just about every minute setting I pay attention to set up the way I’d want them, saving me the hassle of digging deep into the settings menu. For example, motion smoothing is turned off by default, and the white point already is set to the D65 standard embraced by Hollywood professionals.
In Filmmaker Mode for SDR, peak luminance registered at 170 nits. To be clear, the TV can get much higher than that if you set it to. But remember that Filmmaker mode is supposed to make the picture “accurate” and caps SDR brightness at the established standard. If one were to go into the “Expert” picture mode and set the peak brightness option to high and the OLED Light setting to the max, one could enjoy up to 450 nits of practical brightness, which is both impressive for an OLED TV and good enough to do battle with a daylight-filled viewing environment.
Riley Young/Digital Trends Peak brightness measurements in HDR are what really give us a sense of just how bright a TV can get, and in HDR — this was before any adjustments, so just out-of-box HDR Filmmaker mode — I got about 980 nits peak from a 2% to 10% window, and about 190 nits full-field. When I set the TV to its HDR Cinema picture mode and maxed everything brightness-related setting, the TV pushed just past the 1,000 nit mark. By the numbers, that makes the white light output of the LG G2 the highest we’ve seen from any OLED-based display. Does that make it the brightest OLED TV ever, though? Not exactly.
Brighter whites. But brighter colors? The real advantage to the QD-OLED technology that we see in the Samsung S95B and Sony A95K over the WRGB OLED tech used in the LG G2 here is in the color brightness. If we measure six key colors — red, green, blue, yellow, magenta, and cyan, what we find is that the LG G2 comes in shy of QD-OLED by anywhere from one-half to one-third as bright — the most notable differences being in how bright red, yellow, and green can get.
I’m going to stop there with the comparisons to QD-OLED because I’m saving that for my QD-OLED vs. OLED comparison piece, but it’s important to bring up because we can’t just call the G2 the brightest OLED ever — brightest in some ways, yes, but not in others.
Folks, this TV is drop-dead gorgeous to behold.
With that said, the LG G2 measured impeccably across the board. Using Calman Calibration software and a C6 colorimeter profiled to an Xrite i1Pro 2 , I found that right out of the box in Filmmaker mode this unit was already dangerously close to offering accurate D65 white point. I was able to get it just a bit closer to nirvana with a little tweaking in SDR and HDR , but its errors were already below the threshold of human visibility before I started tinkering. Colors did benefit a little from the calibration though. Out of the box, green and aquamarine colors did venture into visible error territory, but, I mean, barely. In other words, sure, the TV can be made technically better with a calibration but … whew, that’s a hard sell in my opinion because the out-of-box performance is just so good.
So, the TV measures extremely well — one of LG’s best-measured TVs, if not the best. Does it watch equally as well? Oh, man. Yes. Yes, it does.
Forget the numbers, trust your eyes Folks, this TV is drop-dead gorgeous to behold. Full stop. That’s why I got distracted and just ended up re-watching movies I’ve already seen, like, 10 times. It was fun to watch them again on the G2 because the picture quality is just so fun and enjoyable. It’s really a spectacle, and I enjoyed almost every minute of it.
Riley Young/Digital Trends As an OLED TV that has a nearly instantaneous pixel response time, you will see a bit of stutter — a kind of a flashing effect — during slow pans in 24 fps film content — that’s just how it is if you don’t enable motion the TV’s motion smoothing option. But other than that, I just spent my entire time with this TV gushing to myself over the deep, rich picture quality. At no time did I spend any time thinking the color brightness could have been higher. Now, that’s probably because I have limited hours watching QD-OLED TVs at this point, but without that frame of reference, this TV is simply dazzling. Nobody is going to bring this TV home and feel like they want more.
Unless — and here’s the big BUT — unless you watch in a fairly bright room.
But is it a good bright-room TV? It pains me to say this because I have not been one to harp on OLED as being a poor bright-room TV in the past. And here we are with the G2, an extremely bright OLED TV, so you’d think I would be reluctant to cast any doubts around whether or not you’d be anything short of thrilled with this TV. But, I had an interesting conversation the other day that lends a little perspective.
Though it’s not really my style to name-drop, I’m going to anyway: I was talking to YouTube sensation Jon Rettinger recently about his next TV purchase. Jon, who reviews plenty of TVs himself, currently has the vaunted Sony Z9D, and he’s looking to replace it. He doesn’t want to buy another TV for at least five more years, so he wants to get this purchase right, and he’s been waffling between an OLED TV or a mini-LED QLED TV.
There can be some advantages to going with a mini-LED backlit QLED TV with just astonishing brightness horsepower.
We got to talking about the LG G2 and after singing the G2’s praises as I’ve just done here, and going back and forth a little, I think Jon was a little surprised that I ended up suggesting he consider some other options. Once I learned about where Jon’s TV is going to go, when they watch TV, where the windows are in his space, whether they are down to close the blinds every time they watch TV, how often his family watches this TV, and where the lighting is placed in his room — I ultimately figured that the G2 might not be the right option for his specific situation.
Of course, Jon ended up getting the G2 anyway, and last I heard, he’s thrilled about the decision. But, the process of vetting Jon’s specific needs and viewing environment reminded me that while I think the G2 is going to be an amazing option for a huge slice of buyers out there — I can’t say enough great things about it — in certain scenarios, I think the move to mini-LED might be the smarter call for some who will most often watch their TV in a room flooded with daylight. That isn’t to say the G2 remains a dark-room-only TV, but there can be some advantages to going with a mini-LED backlit QLED TV with just astonishing brightness horsepower.
Riley Young/Digital Trends With that caveat out of the way, I want to be clear that the LG G2 is an absolutely remarkable, jaw-droppingly gorgeous TV to behold, and it earns every cent of its asking price. For those looking for a premium home entertainment experience, the LG G2 OLED Evo TV is one of the best options on the market today.
Our take Is there a better alternative? The LG G2 shares rarified air with just a handful of other premium, flagship TVs, none of which could be considered objectively superior in all categories of consideration. The Sony A95K is an equally astonishing TV, but it is considerably more expensive, and not as bright on average. The Samsung S95B is also a strong challenger in the same price range, but not as bright on average. The Samsung QN95B is similarly priced, very competitive in terms of overall picture quality, and brighter in all measurable ways, but try as it may, it still can’t beat OLED and the perfect blacks and screen uniformity game.
How long will it last? Given its premium construction, highly advanced technical prowess, and update ability, the LG G2 will last well into the future and is not likely to be eclipsed by newcomers any time soon.
Should you buy it? Yes. The LG G2 is a remarkable TV and were it not for its disappointing stand-mount option, would likely have earned a perfect 10 score. For those who are wall-mounting, don’t hesitate for a moment to purchase this outstanding TV.
Editors' Recommendations OLED vs. LED: Which kind of TV display is better? Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more LG Product Reviews TV Reviews Audio / Video Samsung is almost universally amongst the best TV brands, which makes its lineup of 4K TVs a good option if you’re looking to expand, upgrade, or start from scratch a home theater setup. A new Samsung 4K TV actually makes a great way to save as well, as there are a lot of Samsung TV deals taking place right now. We’ve tracked down the best available, so whether you’re comparing between QLED and OLED TVs or want to ensure you get something that compares with the best TVs, read onward, as there’s likely a deal available for you.
Samsung 50-inch Q60C QLED 4K TV — $580, was $600 As owners of any one of the best QLED TVs can attest, QLED technology produces one of the best 4K images available on the market right now. It utilizes dual LEDs and Quantum Dot color to create lifelike images, and an overall immersive home theater experience. This Samsung 50-inch QLED 4K TV comes in at a good size for just about any room, as it’s not too big and not too small. It’s able to upscale older content into the modern clarity of 4K resolution, and picture quality is heightened with Quantum HDR technology. Smart TV capabilities include compatibility with voice assistants, object tracking for 3D surround sound, and easy access to built-in streaming services.
Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Audio / Video If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That's why we've listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don't have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there's something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we've picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV -- $298, was $348 The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that's ideal if you're on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There's also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
