Sign in My Account Subscribe Quick Links Dear Therapist Crossword Puzzle Manage Subscription Popular Latest Sections Politics Ideas Photo Science Culture Podcasts Health Education Planet Technology Family Projects America In Person Global Events Books Fiction Newsletter The Atlantic Crossword Play Crossword The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Dear Therapist Crossword Puzzle Manage Subscription Popular Latest Sign In My Account Subscribe Matteo Wong Illustration by The Atlantic Don’t Be Fooled by the AI Apocalypse A guide to understanding which fears are real and which aren’t Matteo Wong November 16, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: pabradyphoto / Getty.
The White House Is Preparing for an AI-Dominated Future President Biden’s big swing on AI is as impressive and confusing as the technology itself.
Karen Hao and Matteo Wong October 30, 2023 Illustration by Tyler Comrie The Future of AI Is GOMA Four companies are taking over everything.
Matteo Wong October 24, 2023 Jordan Speer for The Atlantic Computers Are Learning to Smell AI could revolutionize our understanding of one of the most mysterious human senses.
Matteo Wong October 13, 2023 Illustration by Jared Bartman / The Atlantic. Source: … Artists Are Losing the War Against AI OpenAI has introduced a tool for artists to keep their images from training future AI programs. It may not make a difference.
Matteo Wong October 2, 2023 Illustration by Jared Bartman / The Atlantic. Source: … The End of Scantron Tests Machine-graded bubble sheets are the defining feature of American schools. Today’s kindergartners may never have to fill one out.
Matteo Wong September 19, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
The Internet’s Next Great Power Suck AI’s carbon emissions are about to be a problem.
Matteo Wong August 23, 2023 Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic The AI Crackdown Is Coming Five ways for Washington to hold Silicon Valley accountable Matteo Wong August 7, 2023 Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic America Already Has an AI Underclass Search engines, ChatGPT, and other AI tools wouldn’t function without an army of contractors. Now those workers say they’re underpaid and mistreated.
Matteo Wong July 26, 2023 Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic The Supreme Court Killed the College-Admissions Essay The end of affirmative action will pressure high schoolers to write about their race through formulaic and belittling narrative tropes.
Matteo Wong June 30, 2023 Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
AI Is an Existential Threat to Itself Generative-AI programs may eventually consume material that was created by other machines—with disastrous consequences.
Matteo Wong June 21, 2023 Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic AI Doomerism Is a Decoy Big Tech’s warnings about an AI apocalypse are distracting us from years of actual harms their products have caused.
Matteo Wong June 2, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
AI Is Unlocking the Human Brain’s Secrets Language models similar to ChatGPT have started to transform neuroscience.
Matteo Wong May 26, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
ChatGPT Is Already Obsolete The next generation of AI is leaving behind the viral chatbot.
Matteo Wong May 19, 2023 Brittany Hosea-Small/AFP/Getty Nowhere Should Expect a Cool Summer Even a less punishing season than recent summers would be hotter than historical norms.
Matteo Wong May 17, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Internet Archive.
Too Many Americans Are Missing Out on the Best Kitchen Gadget The rice cooker has been perfect since 1955.
Matteo Wong April 21, 2023 The Atlantic; Getty ChatGPT Changed Everything. Now Its Follow-Up Is Here.
Behold GPT-4. Here’s what we know it can do, and what it can’t.
Matteo Wong March 14, 2023 The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
Conspiracy Theories Have a New Best Friend Generative AI programs like ChatGPT threaten to revolutionize how disinformation spreads online.
Matteo Wong March 2, 2023 Jeenah Moon / The New York Times / … Is ‘Instinct’ Really Keeping Flaco the Owl Alive? Flaco lived in the Central Park Zoo for nearly his entire life. When he broke free, he somehow managed to hunt.
Matteo Wong February 26, 2023 Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic AI Search Is a Disaster Microsoft and Google believe chatbots will change search forever. So far, there’s no reason to believe the hype.
Matteo Wong February 16, 2023 More Stories About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Podcasts The Experiment Floodlines How to Build a Happy Life The Review Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Download iOS App Newsletters Follow Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Advertising Guidelines Terms Conditions Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com Copyright (c) 2023 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
