Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung S95B OLED TV review: A legitimately revolutionary TV By Caleb Denison Close $2,999.00 High overall brightness Excellent color brightness Superior contrast Perfect blacks/uniformity Great for gaming First-gen technology Size limits There’s a good chance you’ve already heard plenty about the Samsung S95B OLED TV — much of it wildly positive, some of it wildly confusing. I’m here to throw some more weight behind the former and clarify the latter.
Video review Samsung calls it OLED. It’s QD-OLED Samsung S95B OLED TV details Design User interface Tech spec highlights Picture quality Sound quality Caveats? Our take Here’s the short version of this review: The Samsung S95B OLED TV is an excellent TV and a marvel of engineering. Should you choose to buy it, I think you’ll love it for many years to come. However, you should also know that the S95B is built on first-generation display technology, and even though the foundation of that technology is well proven, there will always be a risk involved in buying a first-of-its-kind product. As risky tech purchases go, however, the Samsung S95B OLED TV ranks fairly low.
Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more This Samsung S90C OLED TV news is literally huge Samsung S95C OLED hands-on review: it’s time to get excited Now, let me tell you why I love this TV and why I think you should buy it.
Video review Samsung calls it OLED. It’s QD-OLED Riley Young/Digital Trends After years of shunning (read: flagrantly disparaging) the OLED display technology pioneered and monopolized by rival South Korean manufacturer LG, Samsung Electronics finally has an OLED TV. I imagine the reason Samsung can do that without necessarily eating a giant slice of humble pie is that while the S95B is marketed as an OLED TV, it’s actually built on a newer, let’s call it “OLED-adjacent,” technology called QD-OLED. That is, there are OLED pixels involved, but there are also quantum dots (QD) involved — importantly, the whole thing is built much differently than LG’s version of an OLED TV.
About one thing, there is no question: The S95B is a revolutionary TV This distinction is important because, despite having a familiar name, Samsung’s S95B OLED TV performs very differently than just about any other TV on the market — Sony’s A95K QD-OLED TV (which uses a Samsung panel) notwithstanding. It’s in that difference we find some benefits and a few lingering questions. About one thing, there is no question: The S95B is a revolutionary TV.
If you feel like digging deeper into the nuts and bolts of how this TV makes a picture, you can learn more about QD-OLED here, but the takeaway is that QD-OLED is inherently brighter and, potentially, less susceptible to burn-in than OLED TVs that use LG’s WRGB OLED panels. The panel technology alone holds a lot of promises and, as I’ve experienced, convincingly delivers on almost all of them.
Samsung S95B OLED TV details While we reviewed the 65-inch model, our review also applies to the 55-inch model.
55-inch QN55S95BAFXZA $2,199 65-inch QN65S95BAFXZA $2,799 Design Riley Young/Digital Trends Aside from its technical merits, the Samsung S95B is a very attractively designed TV — if a bit flimsy in some areas. The TV’s stand is slim and attractive, yet robust and functional. The front of the TV has almost no front borders to speak of, while the rear of the TV is made of sturdy polycarbonate. The overall profile is very slim and attractive. However, the top edge of the TV is just malleable enough that it could bend a bit in shipping. I’ve seen it happen a few times myself, though thankfully the unit I purchased for this review arrived in perfect shape.
Another design point worth talking about is Samsung’s new rechargeable remote control. Sure, you can recharge the remote using a USB-C cable, but you probably won’t need to because it can also get its juice from solar panels lining the back of the remote and from the invisible radio waves circulating around your home. This kind of hands-off power maintenance is just the kind of thing I’d like to see other TV brands pick up.
User interface Riley Young/Digital Trends While I’m a fan of Samsung’s new remote design, I’m less enthusiastic about recent changes to the Tizen smart TV operating system that the remote controls. On the positive side of things: Tizen supports just about any app you could possibly want to use, and the apps themselves are of high quality. The system also lets you choose your voice assistant, be it Amazon’s Alexa, Google Assistant, or Samsung’s own Bixby.
On the whole, though, I’ve found this new version of Tizen to be a bit more sluggish — I often find myself waiting for the system to react to my clicks. I also think it takes too many clicks to find and select the input I want. Also — and I admit this may be a bigger problem for me than most users — I felt like it took too many clicks to get through to the TV’s various settings. I’m of the opinion that a TV’s built-in smart TV system should stay out of the way of my enjoying content on the TV, but I spent much more time than I’d like navigating the TV’s various screens and menus.
Tech spec highlights Riley Young/Digital Trends The Samsung S95B is one of the most advanced TVs you can buy, and not just because it uses the newly designed QD-OLED panel.
The S95B provides four full-bandwidth HDMI 2.1 ports , one of which is an eARC port.
 The chief benefit of those advanced HDMI ports is for those looking to connect a next-gen game console like an Xbox Series X or PlayStation 5 or, for hard-core gaming enthusiasts, a high-end PC armed with an advanced graphics card. Console and PC gamers can expect low input lag with support for variable refresh rate (VRR) up to 120Hz at 4K resolution.
Riley Young/Digital Trends With that said, no console or PC is needed to enjoy playing top game titles on the S95B, thanks to the recently launched Samsung Gaming Hub , which supports game streaming services like Xbox Cloud Gaming , Google Stadia, and Utomik, among others. Using these services, it’s possible to play AAA game titles with nothing more than the S95B TV and a compatible wireless controller.
For HDR video, the S95B supports HDR10, HDR10+, and HLG but, like all Samsung TVs, does not support Dolby Vision. The TV does support Dolby Atmos sound, however, and in fact, can pass Dolby Atmos sound via a wireless connection to certain Samsung soundbars. In addition to this clever wireless audio trick, the S95B supports Samsung’s Q-Symphony sound, which enables the TV’s built-in speakers to work in concert with a Samsung soundbar. In our tests, we’ve found that Q-Symphony sound helped to improve dialog clarity and, in some cases, enhance the Dolby Atmos surround experience by increasing the perceived height of sound objects.
Picture quality Riley Young/Digital Trends It’s the color brightness that really sets this TV apart.
In a nutshell: The Samsung S95B’s picture quality is excellent and, in some ways, can only be rivaled by Sony’s much more expensive A95K QD-OLED TV , making it a uniquely attractive option for enthusiasts who want the best. The only downside is that it’s only available in 55- and 65-inch options.
One of the key takeaways here is that the S95B can get brighter than nearly any other OLED TV on the market. And not just pure white brightness, which can tip the meter at nearly 1200 nits in HDR or around 500 nits in SDR — both very impressive numbers — actually, it’s the color brightness that really sets this TV apart.
Because the QD-OLED technology in the S95B doesn’t use a white subpixel like most competing OLED TVs, it is able to produce colors with higher brightness than competing OLED TVs, and it is that color brightness that really grabs you when you watch this TV. Just as I experienced with the Sony A95K a few months ago, the color produced by QD-OLED is remarkably vivid and enjoyable. Red and yellow colors, especially, are unlike anything I’ve seen on a TV before.
Riley Young/Digital Trends The TV’s brightness is equally matched by its ability to produce pure blacks which, as I’ve previously reported, is the reason why OLED-based TVs have better contrast than LED/LCD TVs, even though they don’t get as bright as LED/LCD TVs, From 4K Blu-rays to 4K streams on Netflix, Disney +, and HBO Max, in SDR or HDR, the S95B looks terrific. One of the areas in which I’d like to see some improvement, however, is in the handling of low-bit depth content.
It may not be perfect, but it is damn close.
When you stream a YouTube video, for example, that doesn’t have as much color information in the stream, the S95B doesn’t do as strong a job cleaning up that picture as many competing TVs do. I’m not sure why that is because, generally, premium Samsung TVs do well in this area. This could be a slight annoyance for some folks watching SDR content on cable or satellite, not because the image looks especially poor on its own merit, but when you jump from a high-quality Disney + or Netflix Stream or Blu-ray disc down to cable or satellite content, the difference in picture quality can be jolting.
I was simply dazzled by how striking the S95B looks The other picture quality element I like to hone in on is motion. OLED technology offers nearly instantaneous pixel response time, which inherently comes with some advantages and disadvantages. On the positive side, it isn’t prone to smearing or blurring like LCD-based TVs are. On the negative side, that instantaneous pixel response time and lack of natural blurring can cause a sort of stuttering/almost flashing effect when you have slow panning wide shots, primarily in movies, but also seen in some games and TV shows. This effect can be mitigated somewhat by turning up the S95B’s motion smoothing settings, but care must be taken not to overdo it and bring on the soap-opera effect.
With that said, at NO time was I ever distracted by motion performance while watching this TV. I was simply dazzled by how striking the S95B looks. It may not be perfect, but it is damn close.
Sound quality Given how thin the S95B is, I was expecting to be let down by its onboard sound, but I wound up being pleasantly surprised. The S95B offers a robust, full sound with plenty of dialog clarity and a surprising amount of bass given action sequences and unexpected punch. I’d still advise getting a soundbar, but know that the S95B’s onboard sound is far better than the overwhelming majority of TVs produced today.
Caveats? Riley Young/Digital Trends Given the S95B is built on first-generation technology, I understand why some might be reluctant to buy it, but given that the TV is built on two long-standing technologies — OLED and quantum dots — which are simply fused together in a new way, I see no reasons to doubt the TV’s longevity.
I also want to acknowledge that there’s some uncertainty around the S95B’s brightness potential given recent firmware updates issued by Samsung. Apparently, a recent firmware update issued by Samsung reduces the potential brightness of the TV when set to the “Movie” picture preset. This was not the case during my evaluation and I’ve not yet been able to test the TV since the allegations were issued. This review will be updated once we’ve learned more and had a chance to re-test the S95B OLED TV.
The same goes for how the S95B handles tone mapping for HDR video games. Presently, it seems its tone mapping can not be defeated, which can make the HDR calibration feature built into the Xbox Series X and PlayStation 5 a bit difficult to get dialed in properly — it’s easy to wind up with a washed-out picture if care is not taken.
Our take The Samsung S95B OLED is a marvelous TV that helps bridge the gap between the enhanced brightest afforded by LED/LCD TVs and the perfect blacks and higher contrast made possible by OLED TVs. For nearly all uses, it is simply spectacular.
Is there a better alternative? For those who need an extremely bright TV, a top-tier QLED TV may be more suitable. For those who prefer OLED, however, the S95B is one of the best deals available. The only competing QD-OLED TV on the market is the Sony A95K, and while the Sony set has some picture processing advantages, it is also much more expensive. For most folks, the S95B will simply make better sense.
How long will it last? Though QD-OLED technology is in its first iteration, signs point to the S95B being a safe investment for long-term enjoyment.
Should you buy it? Yes. If the sizes available (55- and 65-inch) suit you and you want some of the best picture quality available, the S95B is sure to thrill.
Warranty Samsung offers a one-year manufacturer’s warranty on the S95B. For those concerned about burn-in risk, consider that Dell offers a 5-year warranty on its 34-inch curved QD-OLED monitor (AW3423DW) which uses the exact same panel technology. In other words: Burn-in, while possible, is unlikely.
Editors' Recommendations Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Sony’s 2023 A95L QD-OLED TV up for preorder in August starting at $2,800 Samsung confirms its 2023 QD-OLED TVs start at just $1,900, are available now Samsung accidentally reveals price of its 77-inch QD-OLED TV Samsung shows off the first two 77-inch QD-OLED 4K TVs at CES 2023 Product Reviews Samsung TV Reviews Audio / Video Samsung Display has confirmed it will be showing a newly developed 77-inch variant of its QD-OLED panel technology at CES 2023. Whether Samsung Electronics will follow suit with an announcement about a 77-inch QD-OLED TV remains to be seen for now, but I expect to know more within the early days of the show. The new QD-OLED panel has been dubbed "QD-OLED 2023" and the company claims it can exceed 2,000 nits of brightness.
Samsung Display says the impressive new levels of brightness have been achieved through a combination of new panel design -- new "OLED HyperEfficient EL" material which improves the color brightness of each RGB -- and new optimization software dubbed IntelliSense AI.
Audio / Video Sony has finally announced the pricing on its 2022 lineup of Bravia TVs, including the A95K, which uses QD-OLED technology for its display. That TV starts at $3,000 for the 55-inch model, while the larger, 65-inch version has been priced at $4,000 -- exactly where we expected these models to land based on the Sony Rewards points that Sony had listed for each model on its website. Here are all the pricing and availability details for Sony's full range of 2022 Bravia 4K and 8K TVs: Bravia Master XR Series Z9K 8K Mini LED TV As Sony's 8K flagship, the Z9K has all of the bells and whistles. It's powered by Google TV, and supports HDMI 2.1, including eARC, variable refresh rate, auto low-latency mode, and 4K @ 120Hz. It comes with Sony's new Bravia Cam for video chats, gesture recognition, and smart features like auto-dimming the TV when no one is in the room.
Audio / Video Samsung has been using OLED screens in its phones for years. But for the single exception of the short-lived ES9500 in 2012, the company has refused to make an OLED TV. In fact, for the past 10 years, as LG amassed accolades for its OLED TVs, Samsung took every available opportunity (and spared no expense) to pound the table about how its LCD-based TVs were superior to OLED.
To be fair, today's advanced micro-LED backlit, quantum dot-infused LCD TVs do hold a few advantages over OLED, but despite a decade of technological advancement, OLED's perfect blacks and stunning contrast still remain elusive to LCD-based TVs. One can only cheat the laws of physics to a point.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
