Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Sony Bravia XR Z9J Master Series 8K HDR TV review: Peerless but pricey By Caleb Denison Close $6,500.00 Incredible brightness Excellent backlight control/black levels Spot-on color Superb motion Great sound Lacks high-end gaming features Very expensive The Sony Master Series Bravia XR Z9J is one of the most aspirational TVs you can buy today. Sure, LG has its $30,000 Z9-Series 8K OLED TV , but among LED/LCD TVs, the Sony Z9J is the most expensive commercially available TV you can buy. With a street price of roughly $6,500, the 75-inch Sony Z9J makes Samsung’s $2,600 flagship 75-inch 8K Q900R look like a budget buy by comparison.
Pure Sony flex Sony Bravia XR Z9J details Again with the processor Proven backlight system Masterful color Impeccable motion Superior upscaling Stellar sound Performance metrics Is there anything it can’t do? Why I love it Our take Do you need the Z9J? No. Do you want the Z9J? Yes. Will you ever own one? I doubt it. Here’s the thing, though: None of that really matters.
Best 8K TV deals: Samsung, LG and Sony starting at $1,000 8K TV: Everything you need to know about television’s future Hisense debuts its first 8K Roku TV, the 75-inch U800GR Allow me to explain.
Pure Sony flex Dan Baker/Digital Trends The Sony Master Series Z9J is the successor to a lineage of Z-series TVs that have represented the best that Sony can make. When we talk about “setting the bar,” that’s what the Z-series is meant to do. If the Z9J could speak on Sony’s behalf, I imagine it would say something like, “Hi. I’m the Z9J. I’m the best LED/LCD TV that Sony has ever made and I’m the best LED/LCD TV that money can buy. Sony knows TV engineering better than any other brand and I’m the proof.” That Z9J — such a blowhard. But does it have the chops to back up those claims? For the most part, yes it does.
While the Z9J doesn’t quite achieve TV nirvana (for an inanimate object, it seems to have too much sense of self), it comes very close. I’ve reviewed TVs that can get brighter, TVs that can get blacker, and TVs that have more advanced gaming features, but on balance, the Sony Z9J bests them all with the right … well, balance of performance in all the most critical areas. Perhaps more importantly, though, the Z9J is just fun as hell to watch.
Oh, and the fact that it is an 8K TV? That’s just a bonus.
So, how does Sony do it? The XR processor is key to the Z9J’s outstanding performance.
Sony Bravia XR Z9J details While we reviewed the 75-inch XR75Z9J model, our review also applies to the 85-inch XR85Z9J model.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 75-inch XR75Z9J $6,499 85-inch XR85Z9J $8,999 Again with the processor Dan Baker/Digital Trends Sony’s latest generation of image processing chips is called Cognitive Processor XR.
For the sake of brevity — and no doubt much to Sony’s chagrin — I will subsequently refer to it more simply as “the XR processor.” This processor is key to the Z9J’s outstanding performance. In some ways, I get how it works, and in others, I’m completely baffled. Look, I’m not an engineer, I just play one on TV.
What I understand is that the processor is supposed to understand how the human eye/visual system works and then actively maximize a TV’s performance by using cognitive intelligence and executing a bajillion processes per second. It’s not just about how fast this processor can make decisions, it’s about how meaningful those decisions are. For example, if we have an image of a cheetah nestled in the grassy plains of Africa on the screen, with the cheetah in the foreground and the grasses in the background, the XR processor will likely pour its power into resolving fine detail in the cheetah’s coat for every frame in which it appears rather than try to add detail to a blurred-out background of grass. That’s smart decision-making.
Another way to express the importance of this TV’s processor: If the Z9J were a car, the XR processor would be its engine. Several other brands build TVs using many of the same parts as found in the Sony Z9J, but they don’t look like the Z9J because they don’t have the Z9J’s engine. In other words, you could build the shell of a McLaren 720S to spec, right down to the wheels, tires, mirrors, seats, and steering wheel — and it would look exactly like a McLaren 720s. But toss a Toyota Camry engine under the hood, and that car has zero hope of performing anything remotely like a McLaren 720s.
Since I’m now dug into this car metaphor, let me go ahead and beat it to death. If I were to slap a McLaren 720s engine into our 720s-looking shell but give the car a Chevy Malibu drivetrain and suspension … well, you get it. It still isn’t going to perform like the McLaren 720s. Likewise, Sony’s XR processor needs some other premium mechanics in order to pull off its magic. That brings us to the backlight system.
Proven backlight system Dan Baker/Digital Trends Sony used to call its fancy backlight system “Sony Backlight Master Drive.” That’s marketing speak for Sony’s Secret Sauce lighting system. While LG, Samsung, and TCL are touting mini-LED backlighting systems, Sony is sticking with a tried-and-true system that remains a mystery to all who are unable to physically pick it apart and analyze it — it just ditched the fancy name. Ask Sony what’s going on behind the curtain and it will reply with something along the lines of, “We’re not saying, but it looks great, doesn’t it?” Fair enough, Sony. You won’t say. And you’re right. It does look great.
HDR imagery, both in HDR10 and Dolby Vision , looks spectacular.
I don’t know how it is that Sony can use a fraction of normal-sized LEDs with far fewer dimming zones than the competition and somehow come up with a TV that looks better than TVs with much more impressive specs on paper, but the company pulls this trick off year after year. The result is excellent backlight control with minimal blooming and halo effects, excellent black levels, very impressive shadow detail, and truly impressive brightness — all where it counts.
HDR imagery, both in HDR10 and Dolby Vision , looks spectacular.
That leads us back to the XR processor. The backlight system does what it does when it needs to do it thanks to intelligent decision-making by the XR processor. At least, that’s what I think is happening. In the end, what I see is a stunning TV, and since Sony is so secretive about its approach, all I can do is make an intelligent guess.
Masterful color Dan Baker/Digital Trends Since it isn’t enough for me to simply state that the Z9J has impeccable color reproduction, I use a Spectracal C6 colorimeter profiled to an X-rite i1 Pro spectrometer and Calman Ultimate software to measure TV performance. In the area of color, the Z9J is an exemplary performer. I have only seen two other TVs with out-of-box color accuracy that can stand up to the Z9J, and both of those TVs were also made by Sony (the A90J and A80J).
Impeccable motion Dan Baker/Digital Trends Historically Sony’s strong suit, cinematic and smooth motion with a minimum of artifacts is one of the Z9J’s more admirable performance attributes. There’s a fine line between abating motion blur and introducing heavy-handed motion smoothing that makes an image look artificial or invokes what I consider to be the dreaded “soap opera effect,” and I have yet to see a brand tread that line as deftly as Sony does. Although to be candid, many of Sony’s premium TVs perform just as admirably in this category at a much lower price.
Superior upscaling Since there is precious little 8K content to enjoy (thanks, YouTube, for offering some impressive 8K footage to enjoy on 8K TVs, albeit highly compressed), it’s important that any 8K TV be capable of upscaling 4K , 1080p, and 720p material to 8K resolution without making it look worse than it would in its native resolution. While I feel that most TV manufacturers offer solid upscaling, I have to hand it to Sony for being a cut above the competition in this area. Images simply look cleaner on Sony 8K TVs, no matter the original resolution. But no TV is a miracle-worker, and I maintain that no TV 75 inches or above looks good reproducing 720p cable or satellite content.
Stellar sound Dan Baker/Digital Trends For those who regularly read my TV reviews, I will sound like a broken record here. I think a premium TV like the Z9J deserves an equally premium sound system. Really, a TV only needs to not sound terrible to be passable in my book. After that, an impressive, immersive audio experience is best delivered by a quality soundbar (we have more than a few amazing suggestions for the best soundbars you can buy), or better yet, a multi-speaker audio system driven by an A/V receiver (an admittedly dying breed of sound system).
All that said, the Sony Z9J delivers a surprisingly satisfying audio experience, with punch, grunt, clarity, and musicality. It is one of the best-sounding TVs you can buy. And it should be at the price.
Performance metrics In SDR with no adjustments to the custom picture mode (auto local dimming set to medium and peak luminance set to off). I measured 389 nits peak brightness from a 10% window. With auto local dimming set to low, I measured 431 nits, and with that setting at high, I got 381.
With auto local dimming fixed at medium and peak luminance set to low, I got 784 nits. With peak luminance at medium, I got 1422 nits, and set to high, I got 1902 nits. That’s for SDR, folks. That is an insanely bright SDR image. You shouldn’t take this TV outside, but you could take this TV outside and still see it in full sun.
For HDR , I got variances depending on where the auto local dimming setting was at, but the advanced contrast setting had a huge effect on the TV’s brightness output. Set at medium, I got 2,500 nits peak brightness. Impressive.
I reckon the Z9J is probably capable of pushing 4,000 nits peak brightness in small HDR highlights.
Just for grins, I went to Vivid mode, and it zoomed up to 3,600 nits. Wow.
Consider this: Measuring a 10% white window test pattern isn’t a fair measurement of real-content performance. I reckon the Z9J is probably capable of pushing 4,000 nits peak brightness in small HDR highlights.
Is there anything it can’t do? Dan Baker/Digital Trends Given the mountain of praise I’ve heaped on the Z9J, it’s fair to ask what its weaknesses might be. It has a few.
First, the Sony Z9J isn’t the best choice for gamers who want the latest features supported by next-gen gaming consoles like the Xbox Series X/S or PCs with hot-rod graphics cards like the RTX-3000 series.
 At the time of writing, variable refresh rate (VRR) is not yet supported (at least not in the U.S.) and firmware updates for VRR support in markets outside of the U.S. have received a less than warm reception. Auto low-latency mode was only recently offered (sort of) in a firmware update and is reportedly buggy.
While I don’t see hardcore gamers going for the Z9J with so many other stellar gaming TV options available at a fraction of the cost, I think anyone who pays this much for a TV should get everything. All the bells and whistles. The Z9J falls short in this regard.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends Truthfully, though, I think the Z9J’s greatest weakness is that it can’t be enjoyed by very many people’s homes. To say it is cost-prohibitive is a gross understatement. Thankfully, I expect the Sony X95J is going to get 95% of the way toward the Z9J’s performance at a much more approachable price (relatively speaking, of course — it’s still quite expensive). Does the Z9J really have to be so pricey? Such is the harsh reality with luxury products, I suppose.
Why I love it Dan Baker/Digital Trends Until I saw the Sony Z9J, I would have told you the TV I would buy this year would be either the LG G1 Gallery Series OLED or the Sony A90J OLED — and it would be a tough call between the two. Now that I have seen this TV, I’m just not sure. No TV has tempted me away from OLED like the Sony Z9J. I think it is the HDR brightness punch and the way the image seems to leap off the screen and into my room in a way I have just not seen from OLED. Don’t get me wrong, OLED is still the king of contrast thanks to its perfect black levels, but the Z9J performs so well that I don’t have to work too hard to forgive it for suffering a bit in the black level department. It’s just so good.
I spent hours simply watching it because it was such an incredible delight to behold.
The greatest endorsement I can give this TV is that I spent hours simply watching it because it was such an incredible delight to behold. Sure, I probably should have been doing other work, but I gave myself a pass and watched for pure enjoyment because I knew it would be another year or so before a TV like the Z9J crosses my testing room again.
After all those hours spent watching, I’m left wanting to watch it some more. I’ve said that about precious few TVs in my life.
Our take Is there a better alternative? In terms of picture quality, I feel only the LG C1 and G1 OLED TVs, the Sony A90, or the Samsung Q900R can hold a candle to the Z9J, and for a variety of different reasons. Sadly, though, the blanket answer to this question is yes, because the price of this TV is impossible to justify.
How long will it last? The Z9J is held back only by its lack of support for some features associated with HDMI 2.1 , and those are relegated to advanced gaming concerns. In terms of product quality and relevance, the Z9J will still be talked about five years or more from now, just as the Z9D is today. Sony offers a one-year parts and labor warranty against defects on TVs used for in-home purposes.
Should you buy it? If you have the means, knock yourself out. The Z9J is a stellar TV. Just be sure to invite me over for a watch party.
Editors' Recommendations Samsung’s biggest Neo QLED 8K TV comes with an equally huge price The best 8K TVs for 2023: from Samsung, TCL, LG, and Sony Sony claims mini-LED superiority with 2022 8K and 4K TVs TCL’s 8K 6-Series mini-LED TVs are shockingly affordable Hisense’s 2021 TV lineup: 8K, Dual-Cell, and gamer-friendly features Product Reviews Sony TV Reviews Audio / Video TCL put itself on the map in the U.S. when it launched its first 6-series TV in 2018. Along came its 8K mini-LED series in 2019, then it dropped another bomb last year when it brought mini-LED to its 6-series -- meanwhile, other brands still hadn't come forward with their own mini-LED sets. I think it’s fair to say the stakes are pretty high for TCL this year at CES 2021. Can they score another first? Spoiler alert: Yes What's new for TCL 6-Series Let’s start with the 6-Series. In case you don’t recall, TCL brought out the 6-Series in 2018 and it was a hit. In 2019 the 6-Series got quantum dots and performed even better. Then in 2020, TCL gave it mini-LED backlight technology and it took another big step up. All the while, prices for this hot TV series stayed low. So, what’s new for the 6-Series in 2021? One number followed by one letter: 8K Deals Want to treat dad to a shiny new HDTV, 4K TV, or 8K TV this Father's Day? Don't miss out on these fantastic Father's Day TV deals that see must-have models from the likes of LG and Samsung on sale from only $250. You'll need to act fast, though: Televisions are selling like hot cakes and what's in stock today almost certainly won't be this time next week.
Today's Best Father's Day TV Deals 43-inch LG UM6910PUA 4K TV -- $250, was $270 50-inch Samsung 8 Series 4K TV -- $400, was $430 65-inch LG UM6900PUA 4K TV -- $500, was $550 70-inch LG UM6970 PUA 4K TV -- $800, was $1000 75-inch LG UM6970PUB 4K TV -- $900, was $1100 55-inch LG C9 OLED 4K TV -- $1500, was $2000 55-inch Sony A8G OLED 4K TV -- $1500, was $1800 65-inch LG B9 OLED 4K TV -- $1900, was $2300 65-inch Sony A8G OLED 4K TV -- $2200, was $2800 65-inch LG C9 OLED 4K TV -- $2200, was $3000 Audio / Video Earlier this year, Sony gave us what amounted to a sneak peek at its 2020 TV pricing by releasing the numbers for some of its new 4K TVs. Now, we have the official details for Sony's full lineup of 2020 models -- everything from its massive, 85-inch 8K TV to its smallest, 43-inch 4K TV. Here are all of the 2020 prices, along with when you can expect to see these TVs in your local stores and online.
Z8H 8K HDR LED TV Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
