Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The new 2022 TCL 6-Series TV is dangerously good By Caleb Denison Close $1,000.00 Punchy HDR brightness and color Minimal backlight blooming Good motion resolution Great viewing angles Intuitive Roku interface Requires adjustment for best picture Struggles to clean up low-quality content Another year, another outstanding TCL 6-Series TV. This is getting predictable.
Video review Series and size details Better, inside and out Married to Roku, for better and for worse Sorry, enthusiasts, it is what it is Picture quality: you’ll love it The bottom line: It’s good Or is it? When I say the new 2022 TCL 6-Series (model R655) is a dangerously good TV, I mean it as a compliment. But if I’m being transparent, it’s a bit backhanded. The problem with this year’s TCL 6-Series is that it is, by most measures, a truly outstanding TV for its price. In fact, its picture quality is so close to that of more expensive high-end TVs that I think a lot of enthusiasts on a budget will want to buy this TV and then calibrate it so that it performs like a TV twice its price. The only problem is that this TV is really hard to get adjusted so that it meets its full potential. Some might even say it is hamstrung.
Amazon is giving you 6 months of MGM+ when you buy a new Fire TV Walmart TV deals: 55-inch 4K TV for under $250 and more Hisense’s mini-LED U6K TV arrives, starting at $500 I’m not sure I’m comfortable going that far. The fact is that the TCL 6-Series is just a flat-out excellent TV and well worth consideration for those who want a TV with outstanding picture quality that won’t drain the kids’ college funds. Still, it stops short of being everything to everyone. Let’s find out if it might be everything you need.
Video review Series and size details While we reviewed the 65-inch 65R655 model, our review also applies to the 55-inch and 75-inch models.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 55-inch 55R655 65-inch 65R655 75-inch 75R655 Better, inside and out TCL didn’t need to tweak its winning formula for the 6-Series for this latest version to be a big success, but it made a few welcome changes and additions anyway.
The most obvious visual change is the stand. For the R655, TCL has moved away from the feet found on the R646 and R635 from previous years in favor of a center pedestal. I prefer the look and the functionality, at least for now. Eventually, I’ll probably get tired of this look, too. But for now, the center stand is in.
TCL continues to give cable management due attention by placing cutouts at the top and bottom of a removable plastic backing plate, allowing you to funnel cables and wires down through the pedestal and out of sight behind the TV. The only problem I experienced when trying to do just that came when I tried to use a supplied cable clip underneath the backing plate — and it snapped off. The cable clip appears to have been affixed with glue, and perhaps the glue on my review sample had grown weak or was otherwise compromised. Still, I was disappointed that something on a relatively expensive piece of gear snapped off in my hand.
Riley Young If there are other visual changes, they are so slight as to be virtually unnoticeable. The R655 remains an attractive TV, although, to be fair, it isn’t trying to win any beauty pageants.
Most other changes aren’t visible until you use the TV. The mini-LED backlight system has been optimized for better performance. The local dimming algorithm seems improved. The panel can now serve gamers with refresh rates up to 144Hz. There probably are other tweaks at play under the hood, but TCL isn’t dishing out that kind of detailed information and, really, it doesn’t matter unless the picture quality benefits. And, as I’ll soon discuss, it does.
Married to Roku, for better and for worse Anyone who has read my previous TCL Roku TV reviews will find the following criticism a familiar refrain, but this time I’m singing a little bit louder.
The Roku TV platform imposes restrictions on how the TV can be adjusted.
Make no mistake, I’m a fan of the Roku platform in general. The interface is easy to navigate, it’s got access to a dizzying array of channels, it’s fairly customizable, and it supports a wide array of themes. Heck, Roku even has a smart home ecosystem now.
 For the more tech-savvy, Roku might feel a bit like a preschool toy, but for the less tech-literate, it’s the best way to get away from cable and into streaming TV.
Nay, my problem isn’t with the Roku streaming platform or even the Roku ecosystem, which includes wireless speakers, by the way. My issue is with how the Roku TV platform imposes restrictions on how the TV can be adjusted.
‘House of the Dragon’ scene, in HDR10 from an Xbox Series X on the left, and in Dolby Vision from the HBO Max Roku app on the right Riley Young The picture settings you can access using the supplied Roku TV remote (via the venerable Roku Star button ) add layers of confusion that don’t need to be there, while also imposing invisible restrictions. And the picture settings you can’t access with the Roku remote can only be accessed using the Roku app on a mobile device.
Now, I think any Roku owner should definitely have the Roku app on one of their phones or tablets — there’s a long list of highly useful tips and tricks that the Roku app makes possible. But burying certain levers and knobs related to picture quality within the app makes for a lot of hassle. Worse still is that there are some controls one simply can’t touch with the Roku remote or the Roku app. There are restrictions and limitations imposed. I can’t for the life of me figure out why, and I do not like it one bit.
Sorry, enthusiasts, it is what it is Lest you think I’m being apathetic to video enthusiasts who are refused the opportunity to get their hands dirty in the TCL R655’s settings menu, understand that I am one of those enthusiasts myself. I’m the person who, upon setting up the TCL 6-Series at home, will immediately try to customize and maximize the TV’s picture quality. That’s Caleb the consumer, and he’s frustrated. But Caleb the TV reviewer? Well, he’s also frustrated, but he’s got this gem of perspective to share: the overwhelming majority of folks who buy this TV won’t care.
Exciting picture quality and a hassle-free experience, right out of the box.
Now that I’m done referring to myself in the third person, let me clarify my point. I understand that the TCL 6-Series is something of a darling among TV enthusiasts on a budget, and those enthusiasts are well within their rights to want more control. But we can’t necessarily get mad at TCL — some of this probably is the fault of the Roku TV platform. And maybe if Roku weren’t so damn popular, and TCL’s Google TVs weren’t so damn buggy their first time around, we wouldn’t have this problem. But we do. And it’s our cross to bear because TCL and Roku are giving the vast majority of the folks that will buy this TV exactly what they want: exciting picture quality and a hassle-free experience, right out of the box.
We, the vocal minority, are sure to be heard, and maybe things will be different next year. But for now, we’ll just have to live with the TCL 6-Series only reaching, say, 95% of its potential.
Fortunately, 95% of its potential looks really freaking fantastic.
Picture quality: you’ll love it The TCL 6-Series (R655) is the brightest 6-Series TV model yet, with impressive black levels, minimal blooming, and dazzling color. Picture processing looks great with decent-quality content, especially in the area of motion resolution. Most folks who purchase this TV will be thrilled with the picture quality.
The R655’s punchy brightness delivers impressive HDR images with bright highlights and arrestingly vivid color.
For HDR, peak brightness was right under 1,500 nits, and it was stable at 1,100 nits with the 10% window test. This tells us that its average picture level in HDR can be pretty high — just over the 1,000 nit level if you max everything out — and that HDR highlights will top out around 1,500 nits.
I consider that really good for a TV in the R655’s price range. Are there brighter TVs out there? Yes, there are. But we’ll get to the bright room TV discussion in a moment.
I measured 515 nits in SDR, but my eyes tell me the TV gets much brighter than that. It can work for daytime viewing, but it doesn’t have much in the way of anti-glare treatment. While this does have the advantage of giving you velvety blacks, the drawback is that it doesn’t do much to handle reflections. If you’re someone who does a lot of TV watching in a sun-drenched room during the day, you’ll need to do some tweaking to your picture presets in order to juice up the image for a bright room, and you’ll have to contend with some glare.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If the R655 has an Achilles’ heel, it seems to be with cleaning up bit-starved content. Low-resolution and/or highly compressed content on YouTube isn’t presented as cleanly as more expensive TVs I’ve tested, like the LG C2 OLED, Samsung S95B, and Sony X95K. What’s more, dark areas in low-quality content also seemed to suffer from more excessive macroblocking than I’ve seen from TCL’s 6-Series in the past. Macroblocking in the case of the R655 shows up as what looks like giant, blocky pixels where the image should look like a smooth dark area. When I watched the music video for Cody Fry’s single Better (Live) on YouTube , as the singer moved through the dark shadows between the recording studio’s control room to the sound room, instead of just looking dark, I saw a lot of blocky noise in the picture. I checked a few other dark scenes in YouTube videos with which I’m familiar and experienced more of the same.
To be clear, in mid- to high-brightness areas, the picture looks great. It’s when the TV gets dark and the signal is poor that we see the problem. I saw this with local broadcast TV, too. However, this is not the case with higher-quality streams. So if you’re watching something on Netflix, HBO max, Hulu , or Disney+, those streams have a high enough bit depth, whether they are 1080p or 4K , that you don’t get that macroblocking.
Color accuracy out of the box was about what I expected, which is to say not super accurate, but by no means bad. I think most viewers will enjoy the color the TCL puts out with out-of-box picture modes. You could get the R655 calibrated, but I don’t think most people would need to or want to. I’m also not sure how much improvement can be made, either, considering there’s a limit to what can be adjusted, even with Roku’s app. Motion resolution is surprisingly good! I didn’t get a ton of stutter with this TV, and it resolves 24-frame-per-second content extremely well, with almost no judder, and that’s with no motion smoothing turned on at all.
The bottom line: It’s good This TV performs extremely well for its price point. It offers solid HDR specular highlights and the local dimming is outstanding for a TV at this price, so you get incredibly deep blacks — albeit with a slight hit to really dark shadow details at times, though nothing to get upset about. Blooming is extremely well mitigated; I would happily put this TV in my bedroom or a dedicated, light-controlled viewing room. The color looks outstanding, rich when it needs to be, and vivid when it needs to be.
I know a lot of video enthusiasts on a budget want the TCL 6-Series to be the slam-dunk choice of the year, and to be honest, it still is the best choice for them. The frustrations I’ve expressed about the R655’s lack of adjustability come from knowing it has locked-up potential, and that enthusiasts will be equally frustrated there’s no key for that lock. However, for the vast majority of folks looking for a high-performance TV at a reasonable price, the choice is clear: there’s no better TV in this price class than the TCL 6-Series.
Editors' Recommendations The best TV brands of 2023: from LG to TCL, which should you buy? TCL’s latest Q and S Class televisions price Fire TV to sell LG’s new M-Series Wireless OLED TVs start at $5,000 TCL QM8 Mini-LED TV hands-on impressions: I’m shook Is 8K TV dying? It’s not looking good at CES 2023 Product Reviews TCL TV Reviews Audio / Video TCL has arrived at CES 2023 with a revamped TV lineup that has more than a few surprises. In addition to announcing its plan to sell its first QD-OLED TV in 2023, TCL is bringing its mini-LED backlight technology to its largest QLED model, putting the brand in direct competition with Samsung, the only other company that makes a 98-inch mini-LED QLED TV.
TCL has also decided to rename its models, abandoning its 1-, 3-, 4-, 5-, 8-, and 6-Series for a simplified approach that divides the company's TVs into two main buckets, the high-end, QLED-powered Q Series, and the more affordable, non-QLED S Series. TCL's 2023 soundbars will also follow this new naming convention with Q and S Series models.
Audio / Video TCL -- one of the biggest players in the smart TV space -- today unveiled full details for the newest versions of its venerable Roku TVs. Updated are the 5-Series and 6-Series sets, and the scheme remains the same. The 5-Series looks to remain pretty damn good and super-affordable. The 6-Series will be smarter on the inside, more attractive on the outside, and a little more taxing on the wallet.
With those preliminaries out of the way, let's just get to it.
Deals All savvy bargain-hunters who are in the market for a new 4K smart television need to keep their radars tuned for some of the best TCL TV deals. TCL is one of the top names when it comes to high-value TVs with a low price tag, having built its name on its excellent Roku smart televisions (and has recently added some Google TV models to its lineup as well). Whether you're after a small or mid-sized set for a bedroom or smaller common area or you're after a big-screen unit for your living room, these TCL TV sales are sure to have something to please at a price you can afford.
Today's best TCL TV deals How to choose a TCL TV You can find plenty of Samsung TV deals and LG TV deals for less than $1,000 today, but in the budget television category, few can rival TCL TV deals when it comes to sheer value for the money. You might be aware of this brand for its ever-popular Roku smart TVs, and if you're a fan of that streaming ecosystem, TCL is the name you want to look for.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
