Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? TCL Q6 review: the price is right By Phil Nickinson Close $750.00 Great value Google TV built-in Easy to use Decent remote control Panel quality matches the price Remote not backlit Bloatware in the operating system This isn’t going to be the usual sort of Digital Trends TV review. For a few reasons, really. First is that I’m not Caleb Denison.
 I’m Phil Nickinson. I’ve got more beard on the front. Less hair on the top. And I’m nowhere near the panels expert that he is.
Series and size details TCL Q6: setting the stage TCL Q6: What it’s like to use TCL Q6: The bottom line And this TCL television — the 75Q650G, to be precise — isn’t a top-shelf TV. If you didn’t suss it out from the model number, we’re talking about a TCL Q6 OLED TV here, which is at the lowest rung of the Q series (the other models are the Q7 and QM8.) The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs We’ve had a good bit to say about the Q7 and QM8. In our Q7 QLED TV review , Caleb basically ranked it as a pretty good buy for most folks, but a letdown for enthusiasts trying to get by on a budget. In his TCL QM8 review , Caleb crows of that set being “my go-to TV recommendation for probably 90% of people this year.” Fair enough.
The TCL Q6 is the sort of TV the “average” consumer will pick up. And, hey! That’s me! (More or less.) So this review is going to be more pass/fail than A through F. I’m not going to go super nerdy on specs and measurements. That’s Caleb’s thing. (And he can keep it!) Instead, I’m going to talk about what I like and what I don’t like in this sort of TV that I’d put in a spare room — or even in my bedroom, which is where it’s ended up.
Series and size details Caleb always does this part, and I shall, too. I’m reviewing the 75-inch model, and what I experience should ring true for the larger and smaller options as well.
Screen Size Model Number Price 55-inch 55Q650G $400 65-inch 65Q650G $500 75-inch 75Q650G $750 85-inch 85Q650G $1,200 TCL Q6: setting the stage Let’s look at the TCL Q6 a little more in context of the Q series. Like the Q7, we’re looking at an LED backlit LCD panel and not mini-LED like what’s on the QM8. We’ve got a full explainer on the differences between LED versus mini-LED QLED TVs , so I won’t go into that here except to say that mini-LED can sometimes provide better blacks, less light bleed, and more accurate color, which is why it’s in the higher-end (and more expensive) line.
And you can effectively look at the Q6 options like they’re half the price of the Q7 lineup. I tend to believe that price is the No. 1 driving force for non-nerds when it comes to buying a new TV, so that’s a good enough place to start.
A large TV comes in a large box. But TCL makes getting it out pretty painless.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends With all due respect to the folks who do them, I find unboxings boring. They’re either mostly painless — or a complete nightmare. TCL has kept the Q6 in the former category. The remote control, feet, manual and other bits and pieces are all easily found amid the styrofoam and cardboard, and the TV was easy to unpack without breaking too much of the packaging. (That’s important in case you end up with a dead panel that has to be returned. It happens.) This Q6 was replacing a 65-inch 2018 TCL 6-Series Roku TV in my bedroom. And, more specifically, it was going on the wall.
A quick word on that: I can’t recommend mounting a television on the wall enough, particularly if it’s way bigger than what your spouse expected you to bring home. It’ll make the room look that much bigger. Take the time to do it. And if you’re scared about running wires through walls, just buy some cable concealers that you can also mount to the wall and call it a day. Nobody’s judging.
Anyway. All that’s to say that I quickly cast aside the plastic feet that come with the Q6. There’s nothing special here, though you do have the option to mount them wider, toward the outside edges of the TV, or inward, if you have a smaller stand. Use your best judgment there, though. I used the same wall-mount hardware I’ve had up for years — it was still good for a TV of this size — and that all went without a hitch.
TCL Q6: What it’s like to use The Q6, like its brethren, is running the Google TV platform.
 It’s not quite exactly the same experience you’ll get if you plug a $50 Chromecast with Google TV into something, but it’s close enough for our purposes (though if you’re really looking to confuse your brain, you absolutely can plug one into the Q6).
The TCL Q6 has a trio of HDMI ports, including one eARC.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Let’s talk a few specs before we get too much further. This is a 4K television, as you’d expect. And it’s got three HDMI ports, one of which serves as eARC, which is nice to see even at this end of the range. For HDR standards , it supports Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10, and HLG. It’ll also play and pass through Dolby Atmos.
 The native panel refresh rate is 60Hz. That’s basically the bare minimum for anything you should buy in 2023. And for networking, it’s using Wi-Fi 5, aka 802.11ac. That should be more than fast enough to handle most streaming for most people. And there’s also Ethernet, if you want to plug in.
Setup is simple, and it’s a breath of fresh air for a smart TV to acknowledge that you might not actually want use it as a smart TV and instead just use it as a dumb display with something else plugged in. That’s what I opted for at first, actually, so that I could gauge it against what I’d been using previously, which was the 6-Series with an Apple TV 4K plugged in.
You’ll still have access to all the typical TV settings if you opt to go that route, and you’ll still see some Google and TCL options lurking about, even if you have no intention on ever using them. Again, kudos to TCL and/or Google for not making that a user-hostile experience.
The TCL Q6 television has a fairly standard implementation of Google TV.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Once I had everything set up as if I’d just replaced an older TV with a newer model — which essentially is what I’d done — I noticed a few things. First is that I still highly recommend putting an oversized television in the bedroom. It’s ridiculous, but also so much more affordable these days. Just do it. Second is that everything looked sort of … soft. Not necessarily bad — though you’ll definitely want to play around with the different picture modes and settings, as you should any on other TV in any other situation — just … a little softer. That’s probably just because my living room television is OLED, and so the difference in panel type really stands out here.
That said, I think I’ve convinced myself that a little bit of the backlight is bleeding through the edges of the panel. Maybe. If I’m looking for it. If, in fact, that’s what I’m seeing, it really doesn’t detract from the overall experience. Also, you’ll want to go into the picture settings and turn off the motion smoothing (a.k.a. the soap opera effect ) because you are not an animal. (If you do like that sort of thing, I’m going to call you an animal and sleep just fine.) After a couple weeks of use, I finally logged in with my Google credentials to test out the built-in apps and Google TV experience. And I basically found what I expected to find. It’s the basic Google TV experience on hardware that’s powerful enough to run it, and in a lot of instances, it actually managed to handle drawing the user interface better than I expected.
One of no fewer than three live guides you’ll find on the TCL Q6 by default.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends If you’re well-versed on Google TV and are way into the Google ecosystem, you’ll be right at home here. There functionally aren’t any real changes between what TCL has and what you’d find on a Google-built Chromecast (which I use all the time, too). There are some TCL tweaks to be found here — including TCL’s own free ad-supported television service called TCL tv+, and a whole separate smart-home scheme in TCL Home, for those who live fully inside the TCL ecosystem. There’s also other weirdness like TCL Safety Guard, which promises “Professional Protection for Superb Security.” It’s basically bloatware on a TV instead of a phone, and it’s a major reason why I’d prefer to use a TV as a dumb TV and instead opt to rely on other hardware for streaming.
In any event, the Q6 has been adequate to use with or without the built-in Google TV operating system. If you want to use Google TV, I’d just use what’s already installed here and not think twice. But if you want to use something else, go for it. TCL doesn’t stand in your way at all.
My not-as-discerning-as-Caleb eye didn’t have any real issues with colors. The 8K HDR YouTube video we like to run looked as good as ever. More interesting to me was whether it would appear consistent between the YouTube app in the built-in Google TV OS and the Apple TV 4K I usually have running. I was a little surprised to find that the Google TV instance didn’t kick in Dolby Vision and instead just showed “HDR” on the screen. Unless you’re running both side by side, however, you’d likely not even know. I was appreciative of the adjustments that could be made to white balance and saturation in the picture settings and once I tweaked those just a tad — not something I agonize over too much, really — things looked as good as I’d expect on a sub-$1,000 TV.
Brightness also wasn’t a concern at all. Of course, I was using a 75-inch TV in a modest master bedroom. Fun fact: The Nest Hub on my nightstand doesn’t realize all the lights in the room are off until I also turn off the television. It’s plenty bright for that use case.
Back to the price one more time: I’m no gamer. (That I actually lamented the loss of Google Stadia should show how infrequently I actually have a controller in my hand.) But it’s worth noting that while the native refresh rate is only 60Hz, The Q6 does has auto low latency mode and AMD FreeSync built in, and “Game Accelerator” for up to 120Hz variable refresh rates at 1080p resolution. Again, at less than $1,000 all but the biggest model.
The built-in 15-watt speakers aren’t bad. But, again, given the affordable price of the Q6, I’d consider spending what you’ve saved to get at least a basic soundbar.
 Even a simple one with a subwoofer will dramatically change your entire experience.
The TCL Q6 remote control is basic, functional, and is not backlit.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends The TCL Q6 remote has a bevy of TCL-branded buttons.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends The remote control is nothing to write home about. It works fine. It feels fine. It’s long, made of light plastic, and has all the buttons you’d expect. The only detractions here are that it is not backlit (which maybe is only slightly surprising in a Q series TV) and there are no fewer than three TCL-branded buttons on board. One is for TV+ (but is labeled on the remote as TV Plus) and takes you to a guide of those free, ad-supported channels. Another button is for TCL Channel, which takes you to … another guide of those free, ad-supported channels (an August 2023 press release sort of explained the difference between the two, but not really). And there’s also a button for the previously mentioned TCL Home. That’s a lot of button real estate that probably could have been used for something else, but here we are, and I’m reminded yet again why I use an Apple TV 4K instead.
TCL Q6: The bottom line After a couple of months of daily use, I can pretty clearly say the following: There is absolutely no shame in you — a normal TV-viewing person who doesn’t care all that much about refresh rates or local dimming zones or P3 Quad Deltas (I half made up that last spec) that are the sort of things we agonize over in high-end reviews — buying a Q6 and being perfectly happy with it.
Once I did my usual tweaking (which means killing any sort of motion control and fixing the white balance to my liking), I’ve not yet once said “this looks horrible.” In fact, it looks fine. It’s perfectly passable given that we’re talking about getting 65 inches for $500 and 75 inches for $250 more. The return you get on that investment in terms of sheer screen size, as well as having Google TV built-in, more than justifies the expenditure. Even if you don’t use all the extraneous TCL features and just go with what Google gives ya, that’s a superb deal.
And that’s before anyone starts talking sale prices.
My biggest concern here isn’t so much with the Q6 in particular, but with TVs like this in general: You should keep an eye on the software. The Q6 at the time of this writing (in October 2023) is built on Android 11 with a security patch from March 2023. If TCL doesn’t keep that relatively up to date, you might want to consider plugging in outside hardware.
Otherwise? Sit back, relax, and enjoy the view.
Editors' Recommendations Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 Best 75-inch TV deals: Get a large screen for under $500 Product Reviews TCL TV Reviews Audio / Video The Amazon Prime Big Deal Days event is underway any day now but there are already some fantastic early Prime Day TV deals you can shop now. We've rounded them all up below so you can quickly find the right TV for your home and budget. Many of the TVs among the Prime Day deals going on are some of the best TVs around with deep discounts ensuring you can snap one up for a lot less than usual. We're talking big name brands like Samsung, LG, and Sony along with mid-rangers such as TCL and Vizio.
The great deals go for whether you want a standard 4K TV, a QLED model, or something OLED-flavored. There are even some great TV deals on HDTVs if you want something small yet useful for your kid's bedroom or a kitchen. Whatever your plan, let's take a look at what's on sale as part of the early Amazon Prime Big Deal Days event.
Today's best Prime Day TV deals Audio / Video If you’re a connoisseur of great picture quality, or you simply want your new TV to deliver rich colors and incredible contrast, you should be looking at OLEDs. For years now, LG has been the go-to manufacturer of OLED TVs and OLED displays, and even if you buy a Samsung or Sony OLED, chances are that the screen is actually made by LG Display (the company’s panel division). But what exactly makes an OLED so great, you may be asking? The biggest pro these sets have over QLEDs and traditional LEDs is that OLEDs don’t have LED backlights.
This is because an OLED (organic light-emitting diode) panel is made up of millions of self-emissive pixels that can individually be toggled on and off, which is how these TVs are able to achieve the kind of black levels that only plasma sets once rivaled. If you like what you’re reading so far, we have no doubt you’ll enjoy the best OLEDs of 2023 roundup we’ve compiled below. We’ve also had the honor of testing many of these TVs ourselves and have provided links to our full reviews when applicable.
Audio / Video Buying a new TV can be one of the most confusing consumer tech purchases you’ll ever make. Not only are there several brands to choose from, but there’s also many different kinds of display types to choose from. Do you like a bright and punchy picture? Then maybe a QLED would be best. Or are you more for super-accurate colors and inky black levels? Then perhaps an OLED would be a better fit. And now there are also QD-OLEDs to contend with, as well as traditional LED TVs. Yeah, it’s not the easiest technology to keep up with and understand, but that’s why we’re here to help.
But which is the best TV you can buy right now? As it turns out, that has proven to be a very difficult question to answer, one that has nearly torn our TV expert Caleb Denison in two, with a too-close-to-call race between the LG G3 OLED and the Samsung S95C OLED: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
