Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? TCL Q7 QLED TV review: a great buy, but enthusiasts need not apply By Caleb Denison Close $1,000.00 High brightness Great contrast Vivid color Great for gaming White balance is just bad Color is technically inaccurate Inconsistent picture quality from streaming apps I’ve spent considerable time thinking this over, and I think it is fair to say that the TCL Q7 ranks among the most frustrating TVs I’ve ever reviewed. This TV is incredibly good — except where it isn’t.
Video review Series and size details TCL Q7: What it is and what it isn’t The good: contrast, gaming, and UX The not so good: brightness The bad: white balance and color The meh: upscaling and motion A mixed bag By some measures, this TV is outstanding. And, in fact, I think most folks are going to love it. But by some measures, this TV is kind of a mess, and that’s frustrating because it doesn’t have to be. I’m so close to saying this is probably the best TV for the greatest amount of people, but I don’t know if I can go there.
TCL’s latest Q and S Class televisions price Fire TV to sell TCL goes big, rolls out a 75-inch 8K QLED Roku TV at CES 2019 Video review Series and size details While we reviewed the 65-inch (65Q750G) model, our review also applies to the 55-inch, 75-inch, and 85-inch models in the TCL Q7 QLED Series.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 55-inch 55Q750G $750 65-inch 65Q750G $1,000 75-inch 75Q750G $1,400 85-inch 85Q750G $2,200 TCL Q7: What it is and what it isn’t Let’s start with where the Q7 sits within TCL’s TV lineup this year. It is TCL’s second- best TV for 2023, sitting just below the epic QM8 mini-LED TV.
 The Q7 is not a mini-LED TV — it uses a standard LED backlight system with full-array local dimming. But TCL has broken down the backlight into a pretty generous number of zones. This 65-inch model has 160 local dimming zones, while the 75- and 85-inch variants are closer to 200 zones, according to TCL. If we compare that to the Hisense competition, the U7K is a mini-LED TV and is thus able to have a higher dimming zone count at about 384 zones.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends Of course, as I’m fond of pointing out in just about every TV review these days, it’s not about the size of your backlights or how many dimming zones you have — it’s how you use them. The Sony X90L is a great example of a TV with a standard LED backlight system broken down into just 80 local dimming zones that looks outstanding.
On paper, it looks like the best value in TCL’s TV lineup, and possibly the best value right now.
As long as we’re making comparisons, it’s worth pointing out that the 65-inch Q7 has a street price of about $800, whereas the Hisense U7K goes for about $730. For reference, the much more advanced TCL QM8 65-inch has a street price of $1,200. Going forward, I’ll not be comparing the TCL Q7 to the Hisense U7K because I haven’t tested it yet, but that is coming very soon. I will, however, do my best to describe the differences between the more expensive QM8 and the Q7 here to give some context to the value proposition of this TV.
So, you can probably already see the appeal of the Q7. It’s $400 less than TCL’s best model, but it has some very promising tech inside. On paper, it looks like the best value in TCL’s TV lineup, and possibly the best value TV on the market right now. That’s why I think SO many average consumers just looking for a great TV at a great price are going to end up looking at the Q7.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends But then there’s the enthusiast crowd, who may want as much of that TCL QM8 goodness as they can get while saving a bunch of money. Maybe it’s a second-room TV, or maybe the budget is just a bit tight. The Q7 should be the answer, right? Well, maybe for those average consumers, sure. But I think enthusiasts are about to be let down — at least a little bit.
The good: contrast, gaming, and UX Before I deliver some tough news, let me give a brief overview of what I like about the Q7. First: contrast. TCL is just killing it — in a good way — with the contrast on its TVs. It is prioritizing black levels, blooming and halo control, and high brightness. As a result, the picture on TCL TVs like the Q7 has a lot of pop. And I have to hand it to TCL: If you’re going to single out one element of picture quality to dominate, contrast is it.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends Secondly, TCL is doing a solid job of making its TVs as friendly and accessible to gamers. The Q7 has two HDMI 2.1 ports capable of up to 144Hz at 4K or 1440p, or up to 240Hz at 1080p. It supports VRR, too. And its input lag is sufficiently low to earn an excellent score.
Another positive aspect is that Google TV runs smoothly on this TV. Just remember to turn on the Network Standby function, and cast to the TV from your mobile device from all kinds of apps. It also supports AirPlay and HomeKit. As a smart TV, it’s got a lot going for it.
In HDR , bright colors really leap off the screen, and I think that’s going to impress a lot of folks.
Finally, color. While the color performance is not perfect, as I’ll dive into more later, in HDR , bright colors really leap off the screen, and I think that’s going to impress a lot of folks.
Overall, this TV is built to impress the average viewer across most content. Anything 1080p and higher, SDR or HDR , looks really good on this TV. Even with low bit rate content, this TV manages to somehow avoid too much macro-blocking. I’ve been watching a lot of YouTube content, not all of it premium, and it’s been looking pretty solid.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends So far, so good. Very good, I would say. For the price, this TV appears to be one of the best values ever.
But when we drill a bit deeper, we start noticing flaws. At first, they are relatively minor, but they just grow from there.
The not so good: brightness Which brings us to that section I like to call Numbers for Nit Nerds. This is where I dive into the measurements I got on this TV to provide some objective basis for my analysis. If you don’t know your nits from your armpits, that is just fine, but if you’re getting into TVs and wanna learn more, stick with me.
The TCL Q7 has offered up some of the worst measurements I’ve seen in recent years.
I’m not going to pull any punches here: The TCL Q7 has offered up some of the worst measurements I’ve seen in recent years. Not all of them — some are just fine. But the ones that are bad? They are pretty bad.
We’ll start with some basics. In SDR, I measured peak brightness at about 700 nits with the brightness setting maxed out. Out of the box, the brightness setting is at 55 out of 100, and that will get you about 400 nits of brightness, which is very respectable. You can of course dial this down — I would suggest 30 for a dark room — if you want to see content closer to what was intended by the creator.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends In HDR , using either the Movie mode or the IMAX mode, peak brightness maxed out at just shy of 1,000 to 1,100 nits in the variable window size test – I got a fair amount of variance each of the five times I measured before calibration. But in the sustained peak brightness test, that number came in reliably around 750 nits. When I used the Spears & Munsil pattern designed to get around any cheating the TV may employ when it sees test patterns, that number held steady at around 700 nits, meaning peak highlights will have a good amount of punch and sparkle. Moreover, though, the Average Picture Level was quite bright for a TV of this price. All of this is good news for the average consumer just looking for a great-looking TV at a great price.
The bad: white balance and color But the white balance. Oh, sweet mother of pearl, the white balance. It’s possibly the worst I’ve ever seen on any TV. As a reminder, any Delta E of 3 or less is considered imperceptible to the human eye. And I’ll give a passing grade for a TV of this price if it comes in at about 6 or under, though I’m not gonna be in love with that. But, folks, out of the box, this TV had an average Delta E of 7.5, with the most egregious errors where it counts the most at between 10 and 11. Now, look, I understand if you get a chuckle out of me being all aghast as I delve into some of the nerdiest TV analytics ever, but, truly, that is not good.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends And while a 2-point white balance calibration took care of the brightest whites, all the grayscale in the middle remained at a Delta E of 4 or higher, and near as I can tell, the 20-point white balance controls are — well, I’ll use the word “ineffective.” But some might call them straight-up broken.
As for color? In terms of accuracy, the results weren’t as bad as the grayscale, but the news there isn’t good either. I saw errors all over the place, and getting them corrected in the CMS — or, color management system — would take a lot of work.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends This is not good news for enthusiasts who value accuracy and adherence to creator intent. In order for this TV’s performance to get closer to what we’d consider accurate, you’d need to hire a calibrator, and that could cost as much as $500 for a proper calibration. That’s almost the price of the 65-inch TV itself, never mind that it would raise your total investment to as much as or more than the 65-inch QM8. So, if accuracy is what you’re after, don’t expect to get close with the less expensive Q7 — just buy a QM8.
And that’s frustrating! Because it shouldn’t be this way. And to be clear, I went and checked out some other reviews to see if their out-of-box measurements were close to mine. And on the grayscale at least, the measurements I got are in lockstep with other publications. No, I think that’s how this TV is. And I don’t understand why. I’m thinking back to some of TCL’s 5-series TVs and they had better grayscale and color accuracy measurements than this TV. It’s just so close to being a videophile’s budget darling. But — not as it is.
The meh: upscaling and motion All of that information was primarily for enthusiasts. I don’t think the average viewer is going be bothered too much by the inaccurate grayscale and scattershot color accuracy. Although some of you might notice the white doesn’t look pure white, there’s a magenta hue happening that some average viewers might catch.
I also happened to get a TCL Q7 with good screen uniformity — just the tiniest bit of vignetting in the upper-left and right corners. Anti-glare is just OK, but the TV gets bright enough that I don’t think most folks will be too bothered with reflections.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends But there are a couple of things I think average consumers might catch. For one, this TV doesn’t do a spectacular job at upscaling low-resolution content. It isn’t terrible, but it’s not doing as good a cleanup job to cable TV and low-res streaming TV content as some slightly more expensive TVs. Secondly, 24 frames per second (fps) content shows a fair amount of stutter. If you don’t ever watch 24 fps movies or like to use motion smoothing, then that’s nothing to worry about. But if you watch a lot of movies in their native frame rate of 24 fps, you’ll see some stutter. There are no judder issues — the TV offers judder-free performance. But stutter, where it holds on to one of those 24 frames just a bit longer than it should — you’ll see that.
Again, if you’re not super sensitive about that sort of thing, then I think you’ll love the Q7. But if you are, you might want to pass on this one.
A mixed bag So, for all you non-videophiles or non-video enthusiasts: The Q7 delivers a lot of wow factor. In fact, if you get it and start watching it, you might well say: “Man, that Caleb guy sure was going on about nothing. This TV looks great! I wouldn’t at all be surprised.” The hardest thing about doing TV reviews is that I know I have a fairly significant crowd of enthusiasts tuning in. And for those readers, you just need to know accuracy is not this TV’s bag. Oh, and also, the backlight is a little sluggish — that might bother you, too.
So it’s a mixed bag, depending on who you are. I’ve made this evaluation as fair as possible. I think most folks will love this TV. But for those of you with a keen eye? Stick to the TCL QM8. It’s worth saving up for a little longer.
Editors' Recommendations The best TV brands of 2023: from LG to TCL, which should you buy? The best TCL TV deals Product Reviews TCL TV Reviews Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
