Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video The Continental review: John Wick is less fun without John Wick By A.A. Dowd Close It's stylishly directed Plenty of carnage Mel Gibson is a convincing villain, go figure No Keanu Too much plot A Spotify-shuffle soundtrack Ever wonder how Winston Scott, the dapper aristocrat Ian McShane plays in the John Wick movies, came to control that swanky Manhattan hotel for assassins? Of course you haven’t! The guy needs backstory about as much as Wick himself needs backup. But with the man, the myth, the legend out of commission (at least for now — the ending of March’s John Wick: Chapter 4 could easily be walked back), the architects of this suddenly Keanu-free franchise are looking for ways to do John Wick without John Wick. Their first solution is to go back in time, via a prequel that chronicles the origins of McShane’s rule-bound proprietor across three feature-length episodes streaming on Peacock.
Save for black-and-white flashbacks that essentially tuck an origin story inside an origin story, The Continental is set entirely in the 1970s, when Wick was presumably still in hitman grade school. Even if the series didn’t explicitly identify the time period, you’d clock it from the soundtrack, an endlessly blaring jukebox of the most overused ’70s needle drops available to license. Pink Floyd, The Who, Harry Nilsson — if you’ve heard it in a movie or show before, there’s a good chance you’ll hear it again here.
Young Winston is played by Colin Woodell. If you squint hard enough, you can maybe see some resemblance to McShane, though it’s impossible to imagine this preppy convincingly uttering the word “cocksucker.” Having successfully extricated himself from the criminal underworld that loomed over his childhood, Winston finds himself pulled back in when his estranged, hired-gun older brother, Frankie (Ben Robson), rips off Cormac (Mel Gibson), who runs that aforementioned hitman hotel, The Continental. The heisted MacGuffin is an ancient coin press of undisclosed power; when someone pops it open mid-series, it glows like the briefcase in Pulp Fiction.
You could call The Continental a dual origin story. It also lays out the early adulthood of Charon (Ayomide Adegun), the character the late Lance Reddick played in the Wick movies. We meet the diplomatic face of The Continental when he’s still under the employ of the villainous Cormac. It’s no spoiler to say that the guy’s allegiances will shift, but 40 years after helping Winston stage a coup, you’d think he’d have been promoted beyond the concierge desk. Let’s hope the hotel’s benefits passage was competitive at least.
Colin Woodell in The Continental: From the World of John Wick Katalin Vermes / Starz Entertainment The guest list of The Continental sprawls into a full ensemble. It includes a dogged detective (Mishel Prada), a pair of sibling gunrunners (Jessica Allain and Hubert Point-Du Jour), Frankie’s vengeful wife (Nhung Kate), and a glib gentleman sniper (Ray McKinnon) — all converging, by the action-packed final episode, within the eponymous luxury establishment. These characters are a little more grounded, a little more human than the colorful, disposable martial arts archetypes that populate the movies. Which is part of the problem here: Who wants a more grounded, realistic John Wick ? Often, the show plays more like warmed-over Elmore Leonard. It does have a certain stylish pop courtesy of directors Albert Hughes (working without brother Allen, with whom he once made Menace II Society ) and Charlotte Brändström. Neither skimp on that famous Wickian violence: Heads take bullets, bodies splatter on pavement, and one poor goon gets his hand shoved into a garbage disposal. All the same, the fights — even the good ones, like a close-quarters brawl in a phone booth — strain to approximate the famously precise, acrobatic, visceral stunt work Chad Stahelski brought to this material. As with most television spinoffs, there’s the sense that cinematic pleasures have been squashed to fit the small screen.
The real issue is in the ratio of gab to action. In truth, that’s sometimes a problem with the movies, too. While the fanciful mythology was part of the charm of the 2014 original, the Wick sequels have perhaps exhausted its appeal, with one too many scenes of well-dressed people standing around in opulent rooms debating the finer points of their secret society.
The Continental goes lighter on the feudal intrigue (there’s less of the High Table), but way heavier on the melodrama. Besides Winston’s tortured sibling relationship, subplots involving the Vietnam War and racial tensions in ’70s New York are incongruously integrated into a cartoon reality where assassins have their own hotels, currency, and aristocracy.
Mark Musashi and Marina Mazepa in The Continental: From the World of John Wick Starz Entertainment / Starz Entertainment The only element genuinely calibrated to the lunatic spirit of the films is Gibson’s scenery-chewing performance as the heavy. However one feels about Hollywood’s ongoing rehabilitation of this disgraced actor’s career, the role productively channels Gibson’s more bilious qualities into outsized bad-guy theatrics, savoring his curdled star power during scenes like the one where Cormac gets around the no-killing protocol of his hotel by coercing a henchman into leaping off a balcony to his death. Not since Dragged Across Concrete has someone put his toxicity to better use.
Still, there’s a Keanu-shaped void of mythic charisma at the center of this series — one that certainly can’t be filled by Woodell and his boringly prequelized protagonist, climbing the criminal ladder as a way to work through his stock traumatic adolescence. Subtitle aside, The Continental rarely feels like it’s actually taking place in the “world of John Wick.
” It’s too plot-heavy, too tasteful, too dully “character-driven” — a prestige TV take on a more flavorful genre-movie pastiche. And at nearly five hours, it could inspire an impatient “tick-tock” from even the most indiscriminate of Wick fans.
The Continental: From the World of John Wick begins streaming on Peacock on Friday, September 22. For more of A.A. Dowd’s writing, please visit his Authory page.
Editors' Recommendations John Wick creator wants My Friend Pedro, Bendy and the Ink Machine on TV Entertainment Action Product Reviews TV Reviews Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals and Amazon Black Friday deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals, 55-inch TV Black Friday deals 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
