Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Vizio M-Series Quantum X TV review: the Goldilocks TV By Caleb Denison Close $849.99 Solid brightness and HDR performance Impressive black levels for the price Decent backlight control Great price Some motion issues For many years, Vizio’s M-Series TVs have been central to its business. Not only does the M-Series sit smack in the middle of Vizio’s expansive TV lineup – above the more modest D- and V-Series, but below the more premium P- and PX-Series – but it represents the highest level of value. It doesn’t try to break brightness or color volume barriers, but it does aim to deliver solid picture quality and an expansive list of desirable features at a very attractive price.
Video review Smartcast feels smarter now Vizio MQX-Series details Solid and satisfying Weak spots Plenty for gamers and geeks How it stacks up The audience for a TV like the M-Series is huge. Anyone that’s willing to pay a little bit more for a quality experience, but stops short of diving deep into confusing specs can appreciate what the M-Series stands to offer.
Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more With that in mind, I’ve been eager to see how Vizio’s new 2022 M-Series Quantum X (MQX) would perform. With the addition of quantum dots, it promises brighter color and better HDR performance than previous models, but at the same approachable price.
I’ve spent several weeks with the TV, and here’s what I’ve learned.
Video review Smartcast feels smarter now For the past few years, the SmartCast smart TV platform has been the chief target of my complaints with Vizio TVs. It’s been slow, laggy, and generally frustrating to use. I’ve gone so far as to suggest anyone purchasing a Vizio TV should also plan to purchase a streaming device from Roku , Chromecast, or Apple, but I’m pleased to report that’s no longer necessary — SmartCast now runs extremely well on Vizio’s 2022 M-Series.
The initial setup of the TV ran noticeably faster on the new M-Series than I’ve experienced in the past, and I find navigating the TV’s menus and apps to be sufficiently snappy and responsive. Apps load quickly too, and to date, have never crashed on me. All of this is a huge step forward for Vizio and SmartCast.
Riley Young/Digital Trends The SmartCast layout isn’t to my particular taste, but there’s nothing specifically bad about it. My only lingering complaint about how SmartCast works is that, just like most smart TV platforms today, ads tend to sit front and center — shows and movies Vizio thinks you’ll want to watch are placed above the apps you may really want to get to. As I said though, this problem is not SmartCast-specific.
One other important note: As I write this, the Disney+ app does not support Dolby Atmos audio. I know that may seem like a very specific call-out, but when I tested the 2022 M-Series, I did so alongside the new M-Series Elevate soundbar , which supports Dolby Atmos, and I was disappointed some of my favorite test clips on Diseny+ wouldn’t be usable.
Overall, I give the Vizio MQX’s usability a thumbs up. The menu system takes a little getting used to, but if you just want to hit the power button and start watching Netflix, the MQX will get you there quickly enough.
Vizio MQX-Series details While we reviewed the 65-inch M65QXM-K03 model, our review also applies to the 50-inch and 75-inch models.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 50-inch M50QXM-K01 65-inch M65QXM-K03 75-inch M75QXM-K03 Solid and satisfying While it may not read like an overwhelmingly positive endorsement, the fact that I was at no point distracted by something the Vizio MQX TV did poorly during my evaluation is actually high praise.
I spend a lot of time reviewing high-end TVs, and when you spend so much time looking at the best image quality on the market, it can be tough to step down to a TV with more modest specs and performance. But that wasn’t the case with the Vizio MQX.
Overall its backlight performance is quite respectable.
Before I pulled out my fancy TV measurement gear to gather a bunch of performance data, I grabbed a bunch of snacks and a few diet sodas and I just sat and watched TV. A lot of it. I rewatched several movies I’ve watched more times than I count, enjoyed a few new flicks I hadn’t gotten to yet, binged four episodes each of two different series I’d been excited to see, and even managed to play half an hour of video games on my Xbox Series X.
I enjoyed every second of it.
The Vizio MQX doesn’t use mini-LED backlights or have a tremendous number of local dimming zones like more expensive TVs, but I wasn’t distracted by any milky black levels or massive blooms of light around bright objects on a black background – issues that often plague TVs at lower price points. To be clear, the MQX does show a little blooming, most noticeable in dark grey areas. But overall its backlight performance is quite respectable.
As my measurements would later indicate, the MQX doesn’t have extremely accurate color output, but I never felt like the color was “off.” In fact, it looked great most of the time. There were a few moments when I felt like red and orange seemed a bit hot, but again, that’s because I evaluate a lot of TVs – I doubt most folks would notice, let alone be bothered.
And when watching HDR content? I was unexpectedly impressed. I measured the Vizio MQX’s peak luminance for HDR at 1,000 nits, which is sufficient for an enjoyable HDR experience, and I also determined it could put out full-screen white up to 600 nits, which means the TV can still look impressive in a room filled with daylight.
Moreover, those performance metrics are impressive considering the MQX’s asking price. The case for the M-Series’ high value continues to mount.
Weak spots The Vizio MQX’s only apparent weakness is motion resolution. By default, even in the “Calibrated” picture mode which is aimed at video purists who would expect to see any motion smoothing in a TV turned off, some motion processing is turned on. Vizio isn’t heavy-handed here – De-Judder was set at a 2 out of 10, while De-blur was set to 1 out of 10 – but the net effect was enough for me to notice some artificial smoothing when I watched 24 fps movies.
Vizio MQX doesn’t offer particularly good sound quality.
I thought that decision was a bit odd until I turned both De-Judder and De-Blur off. When I did, I saw enough stutter/judder in slow-moving movie pans and enough blur in fast-moving sports that it became clear that, despite having a 120Hz native panel, the MQX’s picture processing benefitted from some motion interpolation. Fortunately, those “lite” motion smoothing settings didn’t introduce objectionable levels of Soap Opera Effect (SOE).
I should also mention that the Vizio MQX doesn’t offer particularly good sound quality. I wasn’t surprised by this, but it should be known by anyone who might purchase this set. Fortunately, Vizio makes extremely good-sounding, affordable soundbars, any of which will offer better sound than the speakers built into most TVs.
Plenty for gamers and geeks Whether you’re looking at its box or its spec sheet, it’s clear the MQX is loaded with the kind of features enthusiasts are looking for. Vizio makes a specific appeal to video gamers, offering 4K 120Hz gaming with variable refresh rate (VRR) available, including AMD’s top-tier Freesync Premium Pro certification. When it’s time to game, the TV automatically kicks into game mode with an integrated gaming menu when it detects a console or PC has been powered on. The MQX is also one of the very few TVs that offers the latest Wi-Fi standard, Wi-Fi 6E which should enable smooth streaming and cloud-based gaming.
How it stacks up The Vizio M-Series Quantum X has two chief competitors in terms of price and picture performance: the TCL 5-Series, and the Hisense U7H.
Riley Young/Digital Trends While TCL’s 2022 5-Series TVs have not yet been launched, I can say that the Vizio MQX outperforms the 2021 version available now in most areas. The Hisense U7H is a brighter TV than the Vizio MQX, but it’s also more expensive. There is, however, little to no competition at the MQX’s price point when it comes to the combination of picture quality and features it offers, especially when it comes to gaming prowess.
This puts the Vizio MQX in a unique position within the TV market. It’s a bit pricier than the TCL 5-Series but less expensive than the Hisense U7H. Meanwhile, its picture performance and gaming features are right in line with what I think a huge percentage of shoppers want.
I guess you could say the Vizio MQX is the Goldilocks of the value TV segment: just right.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Product Reviews TV TV Reviews Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Audio / Video If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That's why we've listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don't have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there's something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we've picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV -- $298, was $348 The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that's ideal if you're on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There's also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
Audio / Video Checking out all the TV deals but know your heart is set on a 75-inch model? We've narrowed things down here to all the best 75-inch TV deals going on at the moment. Encompassing everything from regular 4K TVs to the latest in 8K and Mini-LED technology, there's something for every budget and need here. Keep reading while we take you through the best options currently available.
Onn. 75-inch 4K TV -- $498 The Onn. 75-inch 4K TV isn't technically on sale but it's an amazing price for a 75-inch 4K TV. Its huge 75-inch screen is teamed up with useful features like three HDMI ports. It also has Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily find movies and TV episodes across thousands of free or paid channels. There's also the Roku mobile app which means that you can use voice commands to find what you want to watch rather than needing to use the remote. It's straightforward enough and ideal for those on a budget.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
