Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Download YouTube Videos What is YouTube Premium? Price, content, and more Free Movies on YouTube Play YouTube in the Background What is YouTube Music? Home Audio / Video Guides NFL Sunday Ticket in 2023: Everything you need to know By Phil Nickinson Close Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends We’re only hitting Week 2 of the 2023 NFL season, and already everything has changed. Maybe not for everyone, but certainly for folks in and around New York City. The Jets eked out a win despite losing quarterback Aaron Rogers after just four snaps. And it’s arguable whether that’s a more painful loss — literally, metaphorically, and spiritually — than the New York Football Giants getting shut out by Dallas in their opening game in a 40-0 walloping. Things aren’t a whole lot better in Pittsburgh, which was the victim of preseason hype yet again.
NFL Sunday Ticket Week 2 schedule How to get NFL Sunday Ticket How much does NFL Sunday Ticket cost? NFL Sunday Ticket discounts NFL Sunday Ticket free trial NFL Sunday Ticket student plan Can you watch more than one game at a time? Can you get a refund on NFL Sunday Ticket? Does NFL Sunday Ticket automatically renew? Will there be blackouts? Will there be team packages? That’s the bad news. The good news is that we get to do it all over again this week with a dozen games up for grabs on NFL Sunday Ticket, which debuted admirably this season on YouTube and YouTube TV after decades locked away on DirecTV.
It’s also a huge deal for the Google/Alphabet-owned properties. They’re no stranger to live sports, having advertised YouTube TV throughout some of the biggest sporting events around. And while you’ve long been able to watch huge events like the Super Bowl, NBA Finals, FIFA World Cup, and the World Series on YouTube TV , that was via someone else’s broadcast, a la cable. This time, it’s all on Google’s shoulders.
YouTube TV still leads after latest round of streaming numbers YouTube NFL outage: Should Google give refunds or credits? YouTube TV is still growing on the back of NFL Sunday Ticket And the YouTube infrastructure is vast. It’s the global service that provides cat videos on demand. (Among other things.) And YouTube TV is the leading live streaming service in the U.S., with more than 5 million subscribers as of mid-2022. (The company doesn’t regularly give updates on subscription totals, but nobody’s gotten close.) So, yeah. It’s a big deal that NFL Sunday Ticket is on YouTube and YouTube TV.
NFL Sunday Ticket Week 2 schedule There are 13 games this Sunday, with 12 of them in the NFL Sunday Ticket window. Here’s how things land. (All times are Eastern.) Green Bay at Atlanta, 1 p.m., Fox Las Vegas at Buffalo, 1 p.m., CBS Baltimore at Cincinnati, 1 p.m, CBS Seattle at Detroit, 1 p.m., Fox Indianapolis at Houston, 1 p.m., Fox Kansas City at Jacksonville, 1 p.m., CBS Chicago at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m., Fox L.A. Chargers at Tennessee, 1 p.m, CBS N.Y. Giants at Arizona, 4:05 p.m., Fox San Francisco at L.A. Rams, 4:05 p.m.,, Fox N.Y. Jets at Dallas Cowboys, 4:25 p.m., CBS Washington at Denver, 4:25 p.m., CBS The nightcap has Miami at New England, but remember that Sunday Night Football isn’t on NFL Sunday Ticket.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends How to get NFL Sunday Ticket Again, to spell it out, you have two options by which you can subscribe to NFL Sunday Ticket.
NFL Sunday Ticket on YouTube TV: This is the full smash. You get more than 100 linear channels, plus unlimited recording, and your local broadcast channels. And you’ll get NFL Sunday Ticket.
NFL Sunday Ticket on YouTube: You’ll subscribe via YouTube proper. (This also is referred to as YouTube Primetime Channels.) No extra linear channels. No broadcast channels. Just YouTube. And NFL Sunday Ticket.
NFL RedZone — basically a channel of live scoring attempts as they’re happening — is still be available on the YouTube and YouTube TV options, but for separate fees. For the latter, it’s also available as part of the $11-a-month Sports Plus add-on.
How much does NFL Sunday Ticket cost? NFL Sunday Ticket is not a cheap subscription. That’s by design. A full season still costs several hundred dollars. The good news? You can now pay for NFL Sunday Ticket monthly, and not just all at once. (That’ll be good whether you’re watching on YouTube TV or on YouTube proper, though it’s not available in Georgia, New York, Minnesota, Nevada, Missouri, Tennessee, or New Jersey.) Here’s how the pricing options break down : On YouTube TV: A regular subscription will cost $349 for the season, or $389 if you also want NFL RedZone.
On YouTube Primetime Channels: A regular subscription costs $449 for the season, and $489 if you want NFL RedZone.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends NFL Sunday Ticket discounts Those prices above are before any discounts. Right now, Google’s taking $50 off the top, which brings the YouTube TV down to $300 total, or about $75 a month for four months. (Or $340 or $85 a month if you want to add NFL RedZone.) If you want to subscribe via YouTube Primetime Channels (that is, the YouTube proper service), you’ll pay $400 without NFL RedZone, and $439 if you want RedZone.
Both NFL Sunday Ticket discounts are good through September 19, 2023.
For what it’s worth, those prices are a little higher than what DirecTV subscribers paid — the 2022 season cost just shy of $300. And, again, be on the lookout for discounts.
NFL Sunday Ticket free trial And in a little bit of a surprise move, you also can get an NFL Sunday Ticket free trial when you sign up. It’s good for seven days, which will let you watch one Sunday’s worth of games before you have to commit to several hundred dollars worth of football.
That’s the fine print — you only get the NFL Sunday Ticket free trial if you opt to pay all at once. The monthly option doesn’t allow for it. (Nor does the student plan, but that’s not surprising.) Otherwise, the NFL Sunday Ticket free trial gets you everything the service has to offer. It’s just that you get the first week for free.
NFL Sunday Ticket student plan There’s also a method by which you can pay less via an NFL Sunday Ticket student plan. And it’s a significant discount. Eligible students can get NFL Sunday Ticket for $109 for the season. (Or $119 if you also want NFL RedZone.) There’s some fine print, of course. You have to be 18 years old, and be enrolled as a student at an accredited college or university. That will be verified by SheerID. So you can’t just stick .edu on the end of your email and expect to get the NFL Sunday Ticket student discount.
Can you watch more than one game at a time? Yes! NFL Sunday Ticket supports as many concurrent streams as you want. So you can watch a game on your living room TV while someone else is watching another game in the kitchen or bedroom. (Or both.) Or someone could be watching on their phone. (Note that the student plan is limited to a single stream, though.) And then there’s multiview: That’s the feature that lets you watch up to four games at once on the same TV, and switch things around at your leisure, so you can swap games as one gets more exciting.
Google / Google Can you get a refund on NFL Sunday Ticket? Nope. There is no way to refund NFL Sunday Ticket. Once you buy it, it’s yours. There are no refunds or cancellations.
Does NFL Sunday Ticket automatically renew? This part’s important, because we’re talking about several hundred dollars. So pay attention.
If you subscribe to NFL Sunday Ticket via YouTube TV, it’s for a single season only. There’s no automatic renewal, and you’ll have to sign up again for the 2024-25 season.
But if you sign up via YouTube Primetime Channels, your NFL Sunday Ticket will automatically renew until you cancel it. That’s odd and annoying, but it’s the way it is for now. Consider yourself warned.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Will there be blackouts? According to the current YouTube TV terms and conditions, blackouts are still possible if the home game doesn’t sell out. (As in sell out all of its tickets.) In that case, the game would be unavailable in that region.
YouTube TV uses your billing address ZIP code to determine this — but it’s also possible that it’ll use your phone’s location data if you’re away from home but still within a blackout zone. “If there is an outage in your location,” the T&Cs say, “we’ll do our best to let you know.” The more things change, the more they stay the same, apparently.
Will there be team packages? There was a good bit of scuttlebutt about whether NFL Sunday Ticket will be available in any other forms, now that it’s making the leap to a more progressive digital platform.
The short answer is that there won’t be team packages or single-game purchases. It’s all or nothing.
The confusion came mostly from an initial lack of details. And on an episode of The Marchand & Ourand Sports Media Podcast , NFL chief media and business officer Brian Rolapp said that some of the details are still in the works and that other options may be possible. “I don’t know that we’ll go team by team,” Rolapp said. “But could you get fewer games at a lesser price? I think that’s all up for debate and conversation.” But in a FAQ posted to Reddit and at YouTube TV’s help pages, a YouTube TV community manager wrote that “We aren’t currently offering student discounts or single team/individual game purchasing options.” Editors' Recommendations YouTube’s enhanced 1080p video now available on more devices ESPN+ Free Trial: Can you sign up for free in 2023? NFL buffering on YouTube TV? You’re not alone today YouTube rolling out some three-dozen new features this fall Multiview almost fixes one of the biggest problems with YouTube TV Cord Cutting 101 Streaming Services YouTube Audio / Video With the Week 1 games now in the books, Roku today announced that it's added an NFL Zone within the Sports section of its user interface.
The specialized area, which is available on Roku players and on Roku TVs, gives football fans "a centralized location to find live and upcoming games, so they can spend less time figuring out where to watch the game and more time rooting for their favorite teams.." Audio / Video When it comes to streaming live TV in the U.S. (or streaming any kind of video anywhere, for that matter), resolution and bit rate remain as important as ever. And you're now able to enjoy YouTube TV in 4K. Some of it, at least. And if it seems like it's taken forever for that to happen, you're not wrong.
The basic fact is that it takes a lot of bandwidth to stream video — and that's even more difficult when you're talking linear TV, (and more so still if it's a live event like sports). So it's not really that much of a surprise to learn that most live channels stream at 720p resolution — or maybe 1080p if you're lucky. (We'll leave frame rate out of the equation for a minute, but it's a thing, too, especially for sports.) Audio / Video In a slightly surprising and somewhat quiet shift, YouTube and YouTube TV are offering up a free seven-day trial of NFL Sunday Ticket. That is, you can watch any and all games (barring local blackouts) on a given Sunday, and then cancel if you want. Or keep NFL Sunday Ticket and watch all the games on all the Sundays.
The details were unceremoniously dropped on a YouTube/YouTube TV support page. The free trials should be available now, but the page does note that "if you don't see the 7-day trial at checkout, try again soon." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
