Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video News Nvidia has brought out two new media streamers, the Shield TV and Shield TV Pro By Simon Cohen Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Recent glitches on Amazon and NewEgg gave away most of the surprise factor, but now we know for sure: Nvidia has just refreshed its Shield TV lineup with two new models: The Shield TV and Shield TV Pro. The updated models have Dolby Vision , a faster processor, and an all-new remote control, starting at $150.
The $150 Nvidia Shield TV features an unusual cylindrical shape with ports at both ends. Nvidia claims the design was chosen as a compromise of sorts: It’s small enough to be tucked away if you don’t want to see it, but it doesn’t use the typical dongle format of some other small media streamers as this would impact the quality of its wireless networking. It supports Dolby Vision , something that was lacking from previous versions of the product. The new, smaller form factor ditches the two USB 3.0 ports from the 2017 model but adds a MicroSD card slot. Nvidia believes that this model will appeal more to those who simply want a really good streaming experience, so some features (like the USB ports) were removed to achieve a lower price. At $150, the new Shield TV is $30 less expensive than the lowest-priced Apple TV 4K.
Inside, an Nvidia Tegra X1+ CPU powers the show. Nvidia claims this delivers 25% faster performance.
RAM is smaller than previously reported at 2GB but storage drops from 16GB to just 8GB.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In addition to the Dolby Vision HDR support, Nvidia has introduced a new A.I.-powered upscaling feature for content that is not natively 4K. It claims that this upscaling system uses machine learning to provide much sharper imagery through real-time analysis of each frame, something that other upscaling systems on media streamers don’t do.
The other big change is the remote control. Until now, Shield TV remotes have been thin, minimalist affairs, following the model favored by Apple of pairing a directional pad and volume slider, with a back button, a home button, and a dedicated voice assistant button. The new remote is a significant departure from this approach. It uses a Toblerone-like triangular shape and adds more dedicated buttons such as play/pause, power, fast-forward, and rewind. It has a motion sensor that triggers backlit illumination for the buttons when the remote is picked up. The new remote is also backward compatible with previous Shield TV models and will be available for purchase separately later.
Built-in IR gives the remote the ability to control third-party TVs and other devices without relying on HDMI-CEC.
The $200 Shield TV Pro has most of the same features of the Shield TV but uses the chassis from the Shield TV 2017 model. It gets 16GB of storage, 3GB of RAM, and the same USB 3.0 ports that were on the previous model. A vertical stand remains an optional add-on. Unlike the previous Shield TV Pro which was released in 2015, the new Pro does not ship with Nvidia’s game controller. The company has recognized that many of its customers already own controllers that they enjoy using, and the Shield TV Pro can be paired with either Sony’s DualShock 4 controller or an Xbox One wireless controller. Nvidia’s controller is still available for those who want to buy one separately.
The new Shield TV and Shield TV Pro are available on Nvidia’s website as well as Amazon.com.
Editors' Recommendations Nvidia kills off GameStream on Shield, points users to Steam I was wrong. Apple TV 4K is the best streamer you can buy New Fire TV experience, AirPlay 2 hits more devices this week Apple TV gets FaceTime integration and Spatial Audio Pray for Apple TV: Is this the end of the line for Apple’s streaming box? News Apple Apple TV Tech News Audio / Video After years of selling its Chromecast devices -- "dumb" media streamers that only work in conjunction with a phone, tablet, or computer -- Google has finally launched a truly smart media streaming device: The $50 Chromecast with Google TV.
On paper, this thing has it all. An elegant remote control that balances functionality with simplicity, as well as support for 4K, HDR (even Dolby Vision), and Dolby Atmos. As the name suggests, it still works as a Chromecast for when you want to stream content to your TV directly from another device. The whole show runs on Android TV -- the smart TV software that Google has been refining for years and which now has thousands of streaming apps. And its price is pitch-perfect: $50 is what Roku charges for the Streaming Stick+ and what Amazon charges for its Fire TV Stick 4K.
Audio / Video Google's new Chromecast with Google TV is a $50 streaming media player that combines the convenience of a Chromecast device with the full feature set you'd expect from a set-top box like a Roku or a Fire TV.
But one area where it differentiates itself from the other $50 streamers made by Roku, Amazon, and TiVo is its tight integration with Google's own YouTube TV live TV streaming service. By flipping to the Live tab inside the Google TV interface, you can quickly and seamlessly access all of YouTube TV's content including the on-screen guide and all of the shows in your DVR.
Audio / Video The recent stay-at-home orders haven't been easy on anyone, but starting on Friday, Pearl Jam fans have a reason to be excited: The band's latest album, Gigaton, which was released at the end of March, had been turned into a visual album experience that is free to watch for seven days on any device that can access the Apple TV app.
If you own an Apple TV 4K, a Dolby Vision-compatible 4K HDR TV, and a Dolby Atmos-capable sound system, you're in for an even more immersive version.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
