Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more By Derek Malcolm and Nick Perry Close Since its launch in November of 2019, Apple TV+ has elbowed its way on to the playing field of streaming services from Netflix and Amazon Prime Video to Disney+ , Max , Hulu , and a plethora of others to become, for many, a go-to option for movies, TV series, and sports. Since then the ad-free service has amassed an estimated 25 million subscribers globally, with many more than that reportedly cashing in on the company’s penchant for free promotional subscriptions after you buy a new Apple device like an iPhone or MacBook.
Cost and availability Supported devices How do you get Apple TV+? Audio and video Apple TV+ content What sets Apple TV+ apart from the rest of the herd is that it’s the only service that offers exclusively original content and only its own original content; meaning no seasons of Rick and Morty or Friends licensed from their respective networks and no blockbuster flicks from other studios, but you can get those elsewhere. This may or may not be a bad thing, as so far Apple has done a pretty good job at making some of the most compelling original content out there, including award-winning series such as Ted Lass o , The Morning Show , and Severance to some of the best sci-fi series around, like Silo and Invasion , as well as live sports from Major League Baseball and Major League Soccer.
Even with its recent price hike , only its second in four years, which puts the price at $10 per month, Apple TV+ remains one of the cheapest video streaming services available. Here’s everything you need to know.
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Cost and availability Apple TV+ is one of the more affordable streaming services, costing $10 a month. That’s only $3 more than Netflix’s $7 ad-supported subscription , and $13 cheaper than Netflix’s top-tier Premium sub.
Better yet, Apple has adopted an extremely aggressive acquisition model for Apple TV+. Anybody can try it free for seven days, or you can get three months for free with the purchase of any eligible iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Apple TV device, or Mac. You just have to remember to redeem the offer within 90 days of purchase.
Additionally, if you haven’t already signed up, you can get a one-month free trial as part of an Apple One subscription, but be aware that the prices for these bundles (that include services such as Fitness+, Arcade, News+, and iCloud storage) have also gone up.
Supported devices Naturally, Apple TV+ is available on all modern Apple hardware , including all iPhone, iPad, and iPod Touch devices capable of running the latest operating systems, the Apple TV 4K and Apple TV HD, and third-generation Apple TVs. You can access Apple TV+ via web browsers such as Safari, Chrome, or Firefox.
The Apple TV+ app is available on Smart TVs from Samsung, Vizio, LG, Sony, Panasonic, and HiSense. You can also get the app on Roku, Amazon Fire TV, Android TV, or Google TV devices, as well as on PlayStation 4 and 5 and Xbox One, Series X, or Series S consoles.
Andy Boxall / DigitalTrends How do you get Apple TV+? As we alluded to above, there are several ways to get Apple TV+ for free , whether you’re a first-time Apple device owner or a long-time Apple fan. Either way, here are the basic steps for getting in on the streaming service.
Step 1: Head to and select the Start free trial button. It’s easiest to do on a desktop browser, but you can do this on pretty much any device.
Step 2: Sign in with your Apple ID (or create one first, if necessary).
Step 3: If you haven’t already set this up with your Apple ID, you may have to enter your credit card information. Once this is done, click Confirm.
Step 4: You’re done. You should be able to start watching immediately, but you might have to sign in on any of the devices you’re using to watch.
Note: Keep in mind, though, that with the free trial, and with most free trials, once the term is over, it will automatically renew, charging you the $10 per month fee thereafter. If you find that it’s not for you, y ou may want to cancel it before it’s too late.
Audio and video All Apple TV+ originals are optimized to support 4K HDR, HDR10+, and Dolby Vision, and most also support Dolby Atmos sound.
 And if you have an Apple TV 4K you can combine it with a compatible pair of headphones (such as AirPods Max , AirPods Pro (first or second gen), AirPods 3, or Beats Fit Pro) to experience Apple’s immersive Spatial Audio 3D sound with head-tracking. Many Apple TV+ supports up to six simultaneous streams across one subscription, and up to six family members can create their own profiles using their own Apple login credentials. Mac, iPhone, iPad, and iPod Touch users can also download Apple TV+ content to watch offline.
Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Apple TV+ content As we mentioned above, Apple TV+ is all about original movies and TV series. And while they launched with only a handful of titles, their roster is now much more respectable and growing every month. The Apple TV+ lineup features shows and movies from many high-profile actors and filmmakers, and Digital Trends covers everything you can watch on a monthly basis with our streaming guides, including our what’s new on Apple TV+ , best shows on Apple TV+ , and best movies on Apple TV+.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted What is DirecTV Stream: plans, pricing, channels, and more Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more How much is Apple Music, and how can you get it for free? Entertainment Apple Apple TV Audio / Video When it comes to Amazon Fire TV and picking out which is the one you should get, it really comes down to one question. It’s not exactly a simple one, though.
What, exactly, do you need? Audio / Video We're coming up on the holiday shopping season, which means some really fantastic deals on big-screen TVs, making them as affordable as ever. Particularly when you consider that even the best TVs are regular candidates for a discount. 70-inch TVs make a good size for watching sports, and since most TVs nowadays are smart TVs, they’re also a good option if you’re interested in the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max, and more. There are a lot of intriguing 70-inch TV deals taking place right now, and we’ve rounded up the best available. These TVs include brands like LG and Samsung, and they’re ready to take center stage in your home theater.
Insignia 70-inch F30 Series LED 4K TV — $450, was $600 Whether upgrading your home theater or building one from scratch, the Insignia F30 4K TV has everything on the stat sheet. It presents all of your favorite content in breathtaking 4K resolution, and HDR technology provides a wide range of color details and sharper contrast, making movies more immersive and things like sports more impactful. Versatile connectivity ports make it easy to connect home theater peripherals. This TV also offers smart features like Alexa voice control, DTS Studio Sound, and Apple AirPlay. The Insignia 70-inch F30 4K TV is also a Fire TV, which gets you instant access to over 500,000 streaming movies and TV episodes, and access to thousands of channels and apps, including Netflix, Apple TV+, Disney+, Hulu, Prime Video, and more.
Audio / Video Apple TV+ isn't the newcomer to streaming it once was when it launched in 2019. In fact, Apple TV+ has made quite the name for itself, raking in Emmys and Oscars for its top-notch original movies and TV shows. Its subscription numbers have risen steadily over the years, and it's established itself as a desirable streaming service in and among the Netflixes and Amazon Prime Videos of the world.
But one of the best things about Apple TV+s remains its relatively low price compared to more expensive options like Netflix and Hulu. Just how much is Apple TV+, and how can you save even more on your subscription cost? Read on to find out.
How much is Apple TV+? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
