Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Download YouTube Videos What is YouTube Premium? Price, content, and more Free Movies on YouTube Play YouTube in the Background What is YouTube Music? Home Audio / Video Guides How to hide a channel on YouTube TV By Phil Nickinson Close YouTube TV has lots of channels. About 100 of them, more or less, in the base plan, all for a single fee every month. It's as competitive a lineup as you'll find in live, streaming television (also known as linear TV in 2022), and that's just one of the reasons YouTube TV is the most popular service in the U.S.
How to hide a channel in a web browser How to hide a channel from a phone or tablet Difficulty Duration What You Need YouTube TV subscription Web browser Or a phone or tablet But — and hear us out here — what if you don't actually need all 100 channels. What if having fewer channels actually leads to a better YouTube TV experience? It's not only possible — it's absolutely something you should do.
YouTube TV has several options for the way your list of channels appears. There's a default list, which serves things up as YouTube TV deems fit. You also can change things to "Most watched," which will adjust channels by what you watch more often. Or you can order the list alphabetically.
For our money, though, it's all about the custom list. That's the method by which you can put things in any order you want. And even better — you can hide channels you know you'll never watch.
How to hide a channel in a web browser Adjusting your custom channels list in YouTube TV is simple, and takes as long as you want it to. You can spend all day rearranging things, and hiding channels all you want. Or you can just hack away. (Here's a direct link to get started.
) On big caveat here, however: YouTube TV occasionally adds new channels. When that happens, they'll end up at the bottom of your custom list, and in an inactive state. That is, you have to manually enable them if you want to watch them.
Step 1: In a web browser, go to tv.youtube.com.
Step 2: Click your profile picture in the top right.
YouTube TV still leads after latest round of streaming numbers The hidden costs of buying a 4K TV are way higher than you think How much is Apple TV+? Step 3: Choose Settings from the drop-down options.
Step 4: Click on Live Guide in the navigation on the left.
Step 5: To disable a channel, click the red checkmark so that it disappears. Click the empty circle to enable a channel. To rearrange the order of channels, grab the two-lined handles on the left and drag up or down.
Screenshot How to hide a channel from a phone or tablet This is pretty simple, too, and it works the same way whether you're on a phone or tablet, or on Android or iOS.
Step 1: Open the YouTube TV app on whatever device you've got.
Step 2: Tap the Live button.
Step 3: Tap the Sort button.
Step 4: Tap the Edit button next to Custom.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Uncheck any channels you don't want to appear. Also, you can rearrange the order of the channels by holding the handles on the right and then dragging up or down.
And that, folks, is how you hide channels from your YouTube TV list. It's not that they go away forever (you can add them back whenever you like), and, yes, you're still paying for them. It's just that they're not taking up room in your live guide, which is nice. (Interesting, though, is that YouTube TV will still recommend shows on your "Home" page even if you've hidden that channel.) Note that you can flip between any of the ordering options in your YouTube TV app. But to edit the custom list, you'll have to hop into a web browser. That's just how it is.
Editors' Recommendations YouTube’s enhanced 1080p video now available on more devices What is DirecTV Stream: plans, pricing, channels, and more Peacock TV free trial: Can you stream for free YouTube NFL outage: Should Google give refunds or credits? NFL buffering on YouTube TV? You’re not alone today Cord Cutting 101 Google How-To Guides Streaming Services YouTube Audio / Video Apple TV remains the best streaming hardware you can buy, thanks to its impressive integration of software and hardware. And because of that, it's going to last you for years.
Audio / Video The Amazon Fire TV Stick is one of the best streaming devices you can buy, but there are all sorts of reasons you might want to reset one. Maybe you're gifting it to someone. Maybe you just want a fresh start. Whatever the reason, it's super easy to reset your Fire TV Stick — or any Fire TV device, for that matter, whether it's at the low end of Amazon's offerings or at the high end.
Audio / Video Yes, there are a million ways to watch streaming video. And that's the way it should be. Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends There's a tremendous amount of gnashing of teeth anytime a streaming service increases its prices. There's a scramble by media outlets to update SEO-friendly posts and quickly offer alternatives, as if this was all a zero-sum game and you're able to watch the same things on all the services. Or maybe it's time to go back to cable altogether because streaming video is just too darn expensive and it's too hard to find what you want to watch. We're in one of those times in which it feels like all the services are increasing all the prices, to the extent that Engadget has plainly asked "Is streaming even still worth it?" Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
