Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Reviews Google Nest Hub Max review: The definitive smart display By John Velasco Close $229.00 Dazzling display, perfect for picture sharing Camera adds a layer of home security Auto-framing keeps us in view with video calls Tailored experience thanks to Face Match Audio quality is strained at louder volumes The battle to own prime real estate on your kitchen counter, desk, or living room continues as more and more smart displays vie for your attention. The Google Nest Hub was a respectable device — rendering it one of the better options to consider when shopping for a smart display — but there’s far more brewing with the next iteration of the device, the Nest Hub Max.
A complementary addition to a room More screen to love Richer sound makes it a powerful speaker Peace of mind security at a price Google Assistant to the rescue A few new tricks Our take Is there a better alternative? How long will it last? Should you buy it? Google wants the smart display to function as the centerpiece of your home, and as such, the Hub Max provides security, entertainment, home automation, and virtual assistance. It’s chock full of goodies under the hood, though, the now-traditional design makes it look like your typical smart display. Don’t be fooled, however. There’s more to Google’s latest offering than meets the eye.
The best smart home devices for 2023 Are smart blinds worth it? 8 Google Assistant settings you should disable or adjust A complementary addition to a room Before taking the Google Nest Hub Max out of the box, the first thing that needs to be addressed is where it should be placed. All the marketing we’ve seen for smart displays showcases them in almost every room, but due to the device’s larger size, it’s not as practical to place on a nightstand or in tighter spaces since it occupies more space than its smaller, 7-inch sibling.
John Velasco/Digital Trends There’s nothing different about the design besides the obvious increase in size, though. As far as smart display designs are concerned, its contemporary look can mesh nicely with various styles of decor. The floating display, combined with its rounded corners and mesh fabric base, gives it a distinctive aesthetic that’s pleasing to the eyes.
Ultimately, we decided to place it on the coffee table in our living room. This was a strategic decision because, unlike the previous version, this one packs a 6.5-megapixel camera. Not only does it offer the convenience of video calls courtesy of Google Duo , but it also acts as a blanket of security because it essentially doubles as a Nest Cam.
 This doesn’t mean you can’t place it elsewhere, but know that it should act as a complementary addition — instead of being a standout focus.
More screen to love With a larger, 10-inch 1280 x 800 display, there’s more to love and consume than before. Reading news articles and watching YouTube is easier thanks to the increased footprint, even though it’s only a slight step up in terms of resolution. No matter where you place the Google Nest Hub Max, it’ll also always adapt to ambient lighting conditions, allowing it to deliver optimal results in a variety of scenarios.
The same Ambient EQ technology that made on-screen photos on the Nest Hub resemble real-world prints is back, too. Not only are viewing angles wide and colors punchy, making it superb for video consumption, but we remain impressed by how the Ambient EQ technology makes our snapshots from Google Photos seem as though they’re in an actual picture frame. No other smart display is quite as convincing, which makes it wonderful way to showcase your most recent memories.
Richer sound makes it a powerful speaker Google’s smart speakers are known for bringing Google Assistant to any room, but the more affordable options in the space right now — namely, the Google Home and Home Mini — simply can’t compete with the more audiophile-centric speakers on the market. Yes, the Google Home Max was meant to satisfy those cravings, but the Google Nest Hub Max can certainly fill the void, too. The device is armed with dual 10-watt tweeters and a 30-watt woofer, allowing for substantially more power and making the Nest Hub Max perfect for all sorts of music listening.
John Velasco/Digital Trends You can really hear and feel the bass when beats are pounding on a track, but we recommend staying under level 7 volume because the audio quality becomes strained at higher volumes. Fortunately, you can tweak the bass and treble accordingly via the accompanying Google Home app. We’ve certainly experienced better audio quality with smart speakers such as the Apple HomePod and Sonos One , but the Nest Hub Max isn’t too shabby. It sits nicely between the Google Home and Google Home Max speakers in terms of audio quality. And that, for us, is a happy compromise.
Peace of mind security at a price Thanks to the addition of a front-facing camera, the Nest Hub Max essentially functions as a Nest Cam, providing peace of mind when you’re away from home. Tapping into the live feed using the Google Home app for Android, we’re given the option for two-way communication. For those worried about privacy, there’s a green LED that glows next to the camera to indicate it’s being accessed remotely, as well as a pop-up notification that appears on-screen. Now, if you’re paranoid that someone is watching you while at home, there’s even switch on the back that effectively turns off the microphone and camera.
John Velasco/Digital Trends While it’s nice gaining access to the live feed through the Google Home app, more features can be found using the dedicated Nest app when you subscribe to the Nest Aware program.
 It’s pricey — subscriptions start at $5 a month and provide five days of video history — but the program offers more advanced features, such as Activity Zones, cloud storage, and facial recognition. Out of the box, it comes with a 30-day trial, allowing you to test the aforementioned functions with the Nest app. Without it, you’ll get basic alerts, which come in the form of ‘snapshot’ stills that cover the past three hours.
Despite how limited the stock features might be, there’s still something worth appreciating with the Nest Hub Max. Even when we’re away, it’s nice to know we can keep tabs on what’s happening at home. That alone should provide some peace of mind.
Google Assistant to the rescue The underlying Google Assistant experience is intact and largely unchanged from before. When it’s on standby, it can be set to rotate curated photos or images from recent highlights in your Google Photos catalog. If we tap anywhere on the screen, we can scroll through calendar reminders, albums in our Google Play Music collection, top stores, and more. Since it’s tied to our Google account, it provides relevant search details, like those pertaining to our commute, upcoming flight, or the weather in our area.
John Velasco/Digital Trends Given the Nest Hub Max was created with automation in mind, it’s also great at accessing and controlling a wealth of connected smart gadgets. Speaking to Google Assistant is one way to direct commands, but a quick swipe down from the top bezel provides us with an overview of some of our connected devices, allowing us to turn off the lights, close the blinds, and carry out a host of other actions. The conveniences that Google Assistant provides are endless — we can even order a pizza from Domino’s Pizza, thanks to the voice-guided instructions.
A few new tricks Voice Match already gives Google Assistant the ability to discern our voice against other people, but now with the introduction of Face Match, the Nest Hub Max is able to recognize our face using its built-in camera, making for a more personal experience. Setting it up requires the smart display to create a model of your face, which is stored and encrypted locally. We like how the Nest Hub Max can detect our face and tailor the cards in the interface, but it works best when you have multiple members linked to the smart display. If you do, each person will get a tailored experience and interface whenever their face is detected.
John Velasco/Digital Trends Another recent introduction to Google Assistant is the ability to pause media content, like YouTube videos or songs in Pandora, using the new Quick Gestures function.
 It’s useful when there’s just too much noise around for the microphones to pick up your voice commands. All that’s required is for you to stare in the direction of the smart display, raise one hand, and open your fist. In our testing, it really does require you to look in the direction of the smart display, given it’s reliant on facial recognition to work. We found this feature to be accurate at a distance as well, thanks to the camera’s 127-degree field of view, which is capable of detection from up to 12 feet away.
Video calling isn’t new for some Google Assistant-powered smart displays, but the Nest Hub Max takes it one step further. The new auto-framing feature will automatically zoom and track you, which means you don’t need to be sitting directly in front of the Nest Hub Max when handling video calls. The zoom and pans are subtle, but they do a nice job at keeping you in the frame when on a call. Having the freedom to move around while doing other things is, you know, useful when you’re trying to multitask.
Our take Google has crafted something special with the Nest Hub Max. It’s not just another smart display — it’s a definitive smart home system built with versatility in mind. The addition of a camera for video calls, peace of mind home security, increased audio fidelity, and the intelligence of Google Assistant makes it a resounding package at $229 , and should be considered if you’re thinking of getting a smart display.
Is there a better alternative? No. In terms of features and performance, there’s nothing that can match the Nest Hub Max’s scope. If cost is a factor, then consider the Nest Hub, which is $100 less and offers many of same basic features. If you prefer Amazon’s virtual assistant, Alexa, then the second-gen Echo Show might be something to consider.
How long will it last? Given the solid construction and the fact the Nest Hub Max is stationary, you don’t have to worry too much about things breaking down. In the unfortunate event it does, however, the device does come with a one-year limited warranty. New features and hotfixes will also roll out as the devices ages, providing new functionality and fixing potential software issues that might arise.
Should you buy it? Yes. On the surface, it boasts the same basic features found in most smart displays on the market, it does a better job than most at tying them together into a cohesive, intelligent, and powerful device. Essentially, it takes everything wonderful about the Nest Hub, adds some Nest-like security features, and incorporates the richer audio performance found on the Google Home Max. This is a jack of all trades that has learned to excel.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart displays for 2023 What is a smart lock and how does it work? The best smart plugs of 2023: What is a smart plug, and which do I need? Google Home and Google Nest deals: Hub, thermostat, cameras on sale Google Google Nest Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Nest Aware and Nest Aware Plus — the optional subscription services that allow for cloud-based recording on Google's Nest cameras — are getting more expensive in the U.S., U.K, and Australia.
Current subscribers are receiving emails alerting them to a 33% increase for Nest Aware, going from $6 a month or $60 a year to $8 a month or $80 a year. Nest Aware Plus — which doubles event video history from 30 to 60 days and adds 24/7 video history — is going from $12 a month or $120 a year to $15 a month or $150 a year. The new pricing already is in effect for new subscribers.
Smart Home Security cameras are as affordable as ever, and whether you’re looking for one of the best home security cameras or one of the best wireless security cameras, they’re pieces of tech you can often find a discount on. This is certainly the case right now, as significant discounts are taking place on a variety of security camera models by Arlo, Ring and Blink, among others. We’ve done the heavy lifting of tracking down the best security camera deals you can find right now, so read onward if you’re in the market for an affordable way to keep an eye on your home and surroundings.
Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera — $70, was $130 The Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera is one of the better wireless cameras out there. Arlo is a brand that’s become a staple in home security cameras. The Essential Spotlight Camera is easy to install and take down for charging, and it offers the conveniences you’ll find in most wireless cameras. These include easy wireless connectivity to your home’s wifi network, which often needs to be done with a hub. This camera has connectivity built right in without the need for additional peripheral equipment. It has a motion sensor and an infrared mode for seeing at night. It has a two-way audio, which can be a good way to ward off intruders or talk with people making deliveries.
Smart Home Google Home is continuing to expand its roster, with Google today adding support for the Nest Cam Indoor (1st Gen). This allows you to manage all aspects of your camera, such as checking your notification history and accessing your camera feed.
There’s a bit of a catch, as support for Nest Cam Indoor is only available in Public Preview. To join Public Preview and gain early access to the feature, you’ll need to dive into the Settings on your Home app and select Join Public Preview. You’ll then get a prompt to update Public Preview -- accept this invitation, and you’ll see another prompt letting you know when you’re eligible to transfer your camera to Google Home.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
