Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Reviews Google Nest Hub review: A refreshing take on the smart display By Kim Wetzel and John Velasco Close $90.00 Easy smart home control No camera on device Small size means it can be placed anywhere Doubles as a digital photo frame Affordable No camera means no video chatting Poor sound quality Screen is too small for media consumption When the Google Nest Hub (initially $149, now $70 at most places) arrived on our desk, we were surprised. This tiny little box can’t be it, we thought.
Smart displays (smart speakers with built-in voice assistants like Google Assistant or Alexa) are supposed to have gigantic screens for reading, big footprints, and plenty of bells and whistles — right? Tiny screen, big world Keeping it real A smart home love connection Hey Google, what’s my morning commute look like? Ok Google, play music on a better speaker Try out these new features Warranty information Our Take Google’s Nest Hub has other ideas, and though it’s tiny, it has some powerful features that make it mighty under the hood in being a central figure in the ever growing smart home. In a way, its simple approach is a refreshing take on the smart display — but it also feels watered down given some of the new options out there.
The best smart home devices for 2023 Ecobee takes on Ring, Arlo with its first smart doorbell camera What is a smart lock and how does it work? Since its release, we’ve seen its bigger brother — the Google Nest Hub Max.
 It shares many of the same features, but comes with a larger screen, superior audio performance, and a front-facing camera for video calls. With that camera, it can even act as a security watchdog while you’re away. It’s also more expensive at a whopping $229. And most recently, its sleep monitoring successor in the Google Nest Hub (2nd Gen) was announced. While the original Nest Hub is no longer sold on the Google Store, you may still find deals on it elsewhere.
Tiny screen, big world At just over 4.5 inches tall, the Google Nest Hub is comparatively small, with a 7-inch portrait-style screen attached to an oval fabric stand on the back. Unlike its competition, the hulking Amazon Echo Show — which features a 10-inch screen and a four-inch base — the Nest Hub takes up almost no room at all, and can sit anywhere without taking up much space. That makes it easy to fit in many parts of your home.
Unlike other smart displays, the Nest Hub lacks a camera of any kind, which is either a good thing or a bad thing , depending on how you feel about your privacy and the lack of ability to video chat. The only buttons on the outside of the Hub are volume up/down and mic on/off.
When placed next to the Echo Show and the Lenovo Smart Display (another smart speaker with a screen powered by Google Assistant), the difference in size is like comparing a tablet to a smartphone. While the Nest Hub’s small size makes it more versatile — most smart displays are designed for primary use in the kitchen — it feels like a missed opportunity, given the device comes with six months of free YouTube Premium.
 The screen is too small to watch for an extended amount of time.
Greg Mombert/Digital Trends However, the Nest Hub works as a digital photo frame. If you use Google Photos you can connect your albums to the device during set up and have photos of your choice rotating throughout the day. We loved this feature and found some long-lost gems in our collection.
A feature called Ambient EQ automatically adjusts the brightness of the screen so that the device blends into the room. You can manually adjust the brightness as well. We also appreciate Interpreter Mode, a feature that allows you to communicate with people in different languages.
Keeping it real More smart display reviews Amazon Echo Show review Amazon Echo Spot review Lenovo Smart Display review We love how easy Google Home makes it to get devices set up. The Nest Hub is no different — plug it in, open the Google Home app, and follow simple instructions on both screens to get started. Depending on whether you’re already plugged into the Google Home ecosystem, you’ll have more steps to take.
For example, the app will ask whether you want to set up Voice Match , which automatically recognizes your voice and give you and others in the household tailored responses. You also will want to connect to any streaming music and video services (you’ll need to log into your accounts for this) and smart home devices, which is all self-explanatory in the recently-overhauled Google Home app.
In our case, we already have a Google Home device in our test home, which made the setup process as easy as plugging in the device.
Greg Mombert/Digital Trends A smart home love connection The Google Nest Hub is at its finest when connected to a smart home. We like the pull-down screen that gives us instant access and control over smart home devices we have connected. There’s still the option to use your voice to control lights, plugs, locks, cameras, and more (“Hey Google, turn on the downstairs lamp”), but the pull-down menu features a nicely organized list of connected devices, and the status of each.
You can tap “lights,” for instance, and get a list of connected lights and their status, or can choose by room to see a list of all the devices connected. You’ll need just minutes to organize your devices in each room. It’s an easy-to-use control panel for all your connected devices.
Hey Google, what’s my morning commute look like? Google Assistant works the same no matter what smart speaker you have, but the Nest Hub compliments your interactions with by adding a screen. For example, if you want to a video tutorial on how to hard boil eggs, simply say, “Hey Google, show me videos on how to hard boil eggs” and then you can use the touchscreen to choose from results that pop up. With a Google Home Mini or Google Home, which doesn’t have a screen, Google Assistant will simply read the instructions. That’s not as helpful if you’re a visual learner.
The Hub is a nifty way to get a snapshot of what’s happening in the home.
There’re other uses, too. If you have a Nest camera (or any compatible camera) connected to the device, you can view footage from it on the Google Nest Hub. We have two Nest cams in our test house and found viewing footage from them was a seamless process.
You can also answer the Nest Hello video doorbell on the Nest Hub, complete with two-way communication. While we don’t have a Nest Hello in our smart home, we certainly like the idea of having an extra place to monitor movement at the front door.
Greg Mombert/Digtial Trends Because Google Assistant is already connected to our Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Maps, and other Google platforms, integration with what we’re already using is seamless. For example, when we set up the Nest Hub, Google already knew us based on our account and our usage, and therefore calendar reminders and the morning commute outlook automatically popped up on our home screen. If that creeps you out, you can customize what you see.
Ok Google, play music on a better speaker While the Google Nest Hub works as, well, a home hub, it has flaws. Sound quality is the biggest disappointment. It lands between the Google Home and the Google Home Mini, and that’s not stellar. It’s not loud and lacks the bass and treble to make listening an enjoyable experience.
Its speaker isn’t loud and lacks the bass to make listening enjoyable.
By contrast, the Amazon Echo Spot and the Echo Show feature louder sound and a richer musical experience. We understand and respect that Google wanted to keep the device simple, small, and affordable, but not providing at least adequate sound is a missed opportunity. Audiophiles, or anyone who appreciates halfway decent sound, will need to reach for another speaker.
The other drawback, which we alluded to before, is the screen. It’s just slightly smaller than we’d like. Even an inch would help us enjoy the YouTube videos we can’t access on Amazon devices due to an ongoing feud between the two tech giants.
Try out these new features Show school-themed visuals Students learning from home can get that feeling of being in school with the new school themes that are available to Google Assistant-enableds smart displays. Just say, “Hey Google, start the school day!” From there, the smart display will showcase a school theme on screen and will also complete the experience with familiar sounds from school.
Watch Netflix shows and movies Arriving very recently, users can now watch all of their favorite Netflix shows and movies on Google’s smart displays. All you need to do is say, “Hey Google, open Netflix.” From there, you can choose what to watch. If there’s something specific, just say, “Hey Google, play Queer Eye” to start streaming instantly.
Enhanced Voice Match support Did you know Google Assistant can deliver personalized information to multiple people in the home? Google Assistant is now capable of supporting up to six people’s voices with Voice Match on a smart speaker or display, so that you only get relevant details that pertain to you.
Adjusting “Hey Google” sensitivity In busier or noisier areas, it’s possible that Google Assistant can be initiated by accident. If you want to adjust the sensitivity whenever the wake phrase “Hey Google” is spoken, you can now do it through the Google Home app.
Washing your hands It’s more critical than ever before to ensure you wash your hands properly, especially with the pandemic continuing to spread. The Nest Mini offers a brand new feature to help out kids. You simply say, “Hey Google, help me wash my hands,” and from there, it’ll play a tune for 20 seconds to encourage adequate time for washing hands.
Warranty information Google offers a one-year limited materials and workmanship warranty on the Google Nest Hub.
Our Take There’s a lot to like about the Google Nest Hub. We appreciate the focus on smart home control, the pull-down control panel, and the digital photo frame capabilities. We also appreciate the lack of a camera for those concerned about privacy.
We came away wishing Google made the screen, and sound, a priority. With free YouTube Premium, it feels like a missed opportunity. Still, at $90, this is an affordable price to pay for better smart home control.
Is there a better alternative? It depends on what you’re looking for. If you’re looking for an introductory smart speaker without a screen, take a look at the Google Nest Mini ($49) or Amazon Echo Dot (4th Gen) with clock ($60).
 Either will do the trick. If you need the screen for video calls, the Lenovo Smart Display 7 is the better choice at $100. But if you really want the total package, you can fork over the additional cost for the Nest Hub Max ( $229).
If you’re interested in Amazon Alexa voice technology, the Echo Show ($230) is an upcoming option on the horizon to think about, with a built-in smart home hub, a 10-inch screen, and excellent sound. If you’re looking for a smart display that’s smaller, consider the Echo Spot ($130), which is meant for a nightstand or desk.
How long will it last? You can assume that Google and Google Assistant are here to stay. Google will continue to update and improve Google Assistant technology through firmware updates. We can’t guarantee that Google won’t introduce another smart display down the road, though.
Should you buy it? If you’re looking for an affordable Google Assistant-powered smart screen that focuses on smart home control, then buy the Google Nest Hub — just as long as you can forgo video chatting. If you can’t, then consider the fully equipped Nest Hub Max that doubles as a Google Nest Cam too, or perhaps or an Amazon Echo Show if you prefer Alexa.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart displays for 2023 Are smart blinds worth it? 8 Google Assistant settings you should disable or adjust The best smart plugs of 2023: What is a smart plug, and which do I need? Google Google Nest Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Google’s Home and Nest lineups of products always make for some of the best smart home devices, and include a range of cool tech such as smart speakers and smart thermostats. Google Home deals and Google Nest deals are also some of the best smart home deals you can shop, as they’re pretty easy to come by and are often pretty substantial discounts. This is definitely the case right now, as a huge variety of Google Home and Google Nest products are seeing significant price drops. With prices as low as $60 and savings as high as $160, these are the best Google Home and Google Nest deals you’ll find right now.
Google Home — $60, was $130 Google Home is a smart speaker and smart assistant that should catch the eye of anyone on the lookout for a smart device. It can control features and devices throughout your smart home setup, and allows you to easily have questions answered, have music played, have your calendar arranged, and have entertainment played. It has Chromecast built in, which allows you to play music and other media from compatible devices. Google Home can even sync music across speakers throughout your home.
Smart Home Nest Aware and Nest Aware Plus — the optional subscription services that allow for cloud-based recording on Google's Nest cameras — are getting more expensive in the U.S., U.K, and Australia.
Current subscribers are receiving emails alerting them to a 33% increase for Nest Aware, going from $6 a month or $60 a year to $8 a month or $80 a year. Nest Aware Plus — which doubles event video history from 30 to 60 days and adds 24/7 video history — is going from $12 a month or $120 a year to $15 a month or $150 a year. The new pricing already is in effect for new subscribers.
Smart Home Security cameras are as affordable as ever, and whether you’re looking for one of the best home security cameras or one of the best wireless security cameras, they’re pieces of tech you can often find a discount on. This is certainly the case right now, as significant discounts are taking place on a variety of security camera models by Arlo, Ring and Blink, among others. We’ve done the heavy lifting of tracking down the best security camera deals you can find right now, so read onward if you’re in the market for an affordable way to keep an eye on your home and surroundings.
Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera — $70, was $130 The Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera is one of the better wireless cameras out there. Arlo is a brand that’s become a staple in home security cameras. The Essential Spotlight Camera is easy to install and take down for charging, and it offers the conveniences you’ll find in most wireless cameras. These include easy wireless connectivity to your home’s wifi network, which often needs to be done with a hub. This camera has connectivity built right in without the need for additional peripheral equipment. It has a motion sensor and an infrared mode for seeing at night. It has a two-way audio, which can be a good way to ward off intruders or talk with people making deliveries.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
