Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Hulu pricing, plans, channels, and how to get it By Simon Cohen and Derek Malcolm Close Hulu is one of the most popular streaming services around for a number of good reasons.
With an extensive library of TV shows, movies, and plenty of original content, there’s no shortage of perks. Navigating the streaming service can be tricky for beginners, however, so if you have questions about pricing, signing up for a subscription, or using the site and app, you’ve come to the right place.
What is Hulu? What is Hulu With Live TV? Which devices can I use? How much does Hulu cost? Add-ons What about Disney+? The need for speed? How do you get it? We’ll cover everything for you in this complete guide to Hulu and Hulu With Live TV: content, features, technical requirements, cost, and more — there’s a lot to go over. Settle in, get acquainted, and grab the Snuggie and popcorn, because you won’t be able to resist a good binge session if you end up subscribing.
And while you’re reading all this, keep in mind that the Disney Bundle is a thing. That’s the mash-up that’ll get you Hulu, Disney+, and ESPN+ for just $15 a month — essentially giving you all three services for the price of just two of them.
The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The best movies on Hulu right now (November 2023) What is DirecTV Stream: plans, pricing, channels, and more What is Hulu? Hulu Hulu is an on-demand video service available in the U.S., Puerto Rico, and Japan that allows users to stream popular TV shows. Early in 2021, the service expanded internationally through its parent company, The Walt Disney Company, which launched an offshoot service, Star, through its Disney Plus platform to customers in Canada, Western Europe, Australia, the U.K., and parts of Asia-Pacific. Hulu focuses primarily on streaming newer TV shows from many popular network broadcasters, original content, blockbuster and independent films, and documentaries.
The platform differs from other well-known streaming sites such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video in that it gives people early access to popular series from multiple traditional networks. You typically only have to wait a week — and in some cases, just a day — to watch episodes of popular broadcast TV series after they’ve aired. Unlike cable, there are no hidden fees, equipment rentals, or installation appointments associated with a Hulu subscription. You can watch Hulu at home or on the go via many of your favorite streaming devices.
In 2019, Hulu added the ability to download and watch content offline , something that users of other streaming services have been able to do for years. Viewers can download up to 25 titles across five different devices and have up to 30 days to watch their downloaded content in their streaming library. Once a title is started, you have 48 hours to finish it or the download will expire and you’ll have to download it again. The feature is limited to Hulu’s ad-free plans (more on these plans below).
As mentioned, Hulu also has a growing lineup of exclusive original content such as the award-winning drama series The Handmaid’s Tale, hip-hop docuseries Wu-Tang: An American Saga , and more.
Find something to watch What’s new on Hulu? Best shows on Hulu Best movies on Hulu What is Hulu With Live TV? Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Hulu With Live TV basic is Hulu’s $70-per-month streaming service, which allows subscribers to watch live TV (with ads) and on-demand TV programming from more than 90 live TV channels , including local news and live sports, along with everything you’ll get from Hulu’s on-demand tier mentioned above. Plus, Hulu With Live TV subscriptions also automatically net you Disney+ and ESPN+ as well, but , things are changing on December 8. More on this in the pricing section below.
Hulu With Live TV’s channel lineup includes popular entertainment channels like Bravo, MTV, TBS, TNT, and Comedy Central; educational channels like Discovery and History; sports channels like ESPN and FS1; news channels like CNN and Fox News; and family-friendly channels like Cartoon Network, Disney Channel, and Nickelodeon. Additionally, there’s the no-ad premium Hulu With Live TV for $76 a month, which is the same but with, you guessed it, no ads. You can also pay extra for premium channels like HBO, Showtime, Cinemax, and Starz.
Hulu With Live TV is comparable to other services like Sling TV or YouTube TV that allow access to live programming without a cable or satellite subscription. Like those other services, Hulu With Live TV is not without its kinks. The streaming quality for live programs often is not as good as cable and may suffer from slower internet speeds or during high-traffic periods, though this can be true for almost any live TV streaming service.
To watch on a computer, head to the Hulu With Live TV website at new.hulu.com.
 From here, you’ll see your options for on-demand content, as you would with a regular Hulu subscription, but you’ll also see a Live TV button at the top of the screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s been a bit of a schism in the Hulu universe as the company migrated from its “classic” experience to its new “full” experience. If you’re only using Hulu on devices where the full experience is supported, you shouldn’t run into problems.
 If you’re using some devices where only the older Hulu app is supported, you might run into trouble: The old-style Watchlist and the new My Stuff don’t integrate very well. As Hulu continues to roll out updates to its full experience, we expect this area to continue to improve.
Those updates happen quite frequently as Hulu tries out changes to its user interface. Recently, the company made its menu options more comfortable to read by eliminating a transparency effect that reduced the text’s legibility. It also added like and dislike buttons, a valuable feedback system for Hulu to help shape your recommendations with more precision.
Which devices can I use? As listed on Hulu’s website , Hulu and Hulu With Live TV are available on a wide range of popular streaming devices, including both Android and iOS devices, Roku , Apple TV , Amazon Fire TV , Fire tablets, Google’s Chromecast devices, Android TV , Google TV , Mac and PC browsers, select LG and Samsung smart TV platforms, Xbox One , Xbox 360, PlayStation 4, and more.
 For gamers, Hulu With Live TV is available on Xbox Series X and PlayStation 5.
How much does Hulu cost? The traditional Hulu streaming service provides the Basic subscriber ad-supported tier for $8 per month ($70 per year) and an ad-free Premium version for $15 per month (which we think is well worth the money).
Hulu With Live TV includes the ad-supported streaming option, 50 hours of cloud DVR storage, and the ability to watch on two screens concurrently. But the prices have recently had a shakeup. The tried and true Hulu with Live TV that started at $70 per month tier gets a bump up to $75 on December 8, replaced by a new $70 option that swaps the Disney+ no-ad version for its new ad-supported plan. It’s confusing, we know, so here’s what the new pricing will look like next month: Hulu (with ads) + Live TV, ESPN+ (with ads), and Disney+ (no ads): goes up from $70 to $75 a month (note that this plan will no longer be available to purchase or switch to after December 8, but existing subscribers can keep it at the new $75 price) Hulu (with ads) + Live TV, ESPN+ (with ads), and Disney+ (with ads), : $70 a month — this is new Hulu With Live TV, Hulu on-demand (without ads), Disney+ (no ads), and ESPN+ (with ads): goes from $76 a month to $83 a month Add-ons Thibault Penin/Unsplash There’s more than enough to get lost with on Hulu, but you can add even more through premium channels available as add-ons. If your motivation for cutting the cord rests in financials, be warned: Things can get pretty pricey going this route. Hulu subscribers have the option of adding monthly subscriptions like HBO Max ($15), Cinemax ($10), Starz ($9), or Showtime ($11) on top of their existing Hulu subscription.
As for Hulu With Live TV, the service comes with unlimited online cloud storage. A standard Hulu account comes with a limit of two screens to watch the service simultaneously, but this can be upgraded to unlimited screens at home or three on the go for another $10.
For those without cable, any of these subscriptions could be a worthwhile addition. They offer access to countless hours of content, including unique series found nowhere else. While subscriptions can be a bit pricey, putting up with ads and fewer available screens can make both services pretty affordable. But don’t forget to factor in the cost of your internet connection.
What about Disney+? It’s hard to have missed the news that Disney+ is raising prices and adding an ad-supported tier. And as the controlling shareholder in Hulu, we expected Disney to continue to leverage the TV streaming service to promote its new offerings with its bundles. You can bundle Disney+ with ESPN+ and Hulu for a discount on the streaming cocktail — but you can’t currently add Disney+ to Hulu as you would HBO Max or Showtime.
To be clear, a potential marriage between the two isn’t entirely off the table, especially with Hulu’s gradual maturation under Disney’s stewardship. For now, Disney+ is entirely self-contained within its specific app, and you’ll even have different bills to manage if you’re taking advantage of the Disney bundle as an existing Hulu customer. Disney hasn’t revealed any plans for that to change in the foreseeable future, so for now, you can treat Disney+ as an entirely separate beast.
The need for speed? You can stream Hulu and Hulu With Live TV at a few different quality levels that adjust automatically according to the speed of your internet. Hulu advises that you have at least a download speed of 6Mbps for Hulu in HD and 8Mbps for Hulu With Live TV. You’ll need extra bandwidth if you want to stream to more than one device successfully or if you want to take advantage of Hulu’s limited 4K content.
Here are the internet connection speeds necessary for Hulu: Standard definition: 1.5Mbps 720p HD: 3Mbps 1080p HD: 6Mbps Hulu With Live TV: 8Mbps Ultra HD 4K: 16Mbps How do you get it? It’s easy to register for Hulu on either a smartphone or a computer. Navigate to hulu.com/welcome and go through the prompts on the screen. For easy payments, connect your Hulu account to your Apple or Android account. Hulu also has an easy sign-up process for mobile and TV apps.
You don’t need to sign any contracts or long-term commitments, such as you would with traditional TV, to use Hulu. You can even take advantage of Hulu’s seven-day free trial and then cancel the service without any payment at all — though you still need to enter your credit card information when you register. If you should ever need to cancel your subscription, it’s an easy process online or with customer service, and Hulu will save your account information if you ever decide to sign up again.
Editors' Recommendations The best Hulu original series right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now How to watch NBA basketball from anywhere for free F1 live stream: Watch Formula 1 online for free The best shows on Hulu right now (November 2023) Audio / Video Hulu Streaming Services Entertainment It's really hard to choose just one or two streaming services, especially with everything that's available now. It seems like so many platforms are offering exclusive content on top of other shows and movies that are worth watching -- maybe even binging. That's certainly the case with Hulu. But if you're not already an active subscriber, you might be looking to give it a try before spending any money. If that describes you, and you've been searching for a Hulu free trial, we're here to help. We've got everything you need to know about getting a Hulu free trial, plus we look at if there are other ways to get the streaming service for free and what Hulu deals are worth checking out. Just remember, if you want to use any streaming service, Hulu included, you'll need a streaming device, so it might be worth checking out the best Roku deals too. Nevertheless, keep on reading while we guide you through everything you need to know about getting Hulu for less.
Is there a Hulu free trial? Yes, there's a Hulu free trial! Right now, you can get one month free on either the Hulu (ad-supported) plan or the no-ads plan. If you're only planning on sticking around with Hulu for a month, you may as well sign up for the no-ads plan to save any interruptions. You'll need to hand over your credit card details but you won't be charged until the date that the one-month trial runs out. However, much like how there's no Disney Plus free trial, there's no Hulu with Live TV free trial.
Deals As great as online streaming platforms are, some people miss the cable and live TV days -- not necessarily because of the prices or confusion, but the option to catch whatever is on at a given time. It can be frustrating trying to find a decent movie or show to watch or even make a selection with so much available these days. If that sounds like you, that's where the best live TV streaming services come in. In fact, Hulu has its own live TV streaming service in its Hulu with Live TV package, which is one of the largest streaming platforms by subscriber count (more than 4 million, in case you were wondering). It's a more comprehensive streaming service than basic Hulu, though, so it's naturally a bit pricier. The higher price may warrant a testing period. It's always good to give something a try before spending your hard-earned money, which leaves you wondering: Is there a Hulu with Live TV free trial available? Here's what you need to know.
Is there a Hulu with Live TV free trial? Just as there is no Disney Plus free trial, there is also no Hulu with Live TV free trial at the moment. That said, there is a Hulu free trial for the basic ad-supported service if you want to give that a try to see if Hulu's non-live catalog of shows and movies is worth it. You get to try Hulu for 30 days, too, which is ample time to explore the catalog and then decide if you want to upgrade to the full Hulu with Live TV package to get those television channels that basic Hulu is missing. Other than that, though, you'll have to pony up the cash if you want to sign up for Hulu with Live TV -- but that doesn't mean you have to pay full price.
Deals We've reached a point where there are almost too many streaming services to choose from. That makes a streaming service free trial worth every penny it saves. You can give a service or platform a try before spending any of your hard-earned money. A Discovery Plus free trial is one that may be of particular interest to anyone looking to break in one of the best TVs or one of the best streaming devices, as Discovery is known for its sprawling, adventurous content that’s almost tailor-made to suit modern home theaters. A Discovery Plus subscription gets you access to shows such as 90-Day Fiancé, Dirty Jobs, and Gold Rush, and a Discovery Plus free trial gets you access to the full Discovery Plus library to give it a try before you spend on the premium subscription. Read onward for more details.
Is there a Discovery Plus free trial? There is a Discovery Plus free trial, and if things like a Disney Plus free trial and a Peacock TV free trial are of interest to you, it’s worth pouncing on. The Discovery Plus free trial does consist of signing up for the paid service, at which point you’re given seven days of free access to the entire Discovery Plus library of content. You have the full seven days to enjoy all of the Discovery Plus content you like, and you can cancel with no financial commitment within those seven days. If you don’t cancel within those seven days, your credit card will be billed $4.99 per month or $6.99 per month, depending on which Discovery Plus tier you choose at signup.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
