Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The 17-inch Razer Blade gaming laptop $1,200 off right now By Aaron Mamiit Close Digital Trends If you’re a veteran PC gamer, you know about Razer. You’ve likely used a Razer mouse, gaming chair or headset at one point in your life. Well Razer doesn’t stop at just accessories. They make really powerful gaming laptops and PCs as well. If you’re shopping for a new rig, make sure you check out deals straight from the manufacturer. For instance, this Razer Blade 17 is currently $1,200 off.
We’re not sure how long this Razer Blade 17 deal will last, so you should grab it soon. It’s a powerful and sleek gaming laptop that’s on sale for $2,000 from its usual $3,200. It has some powerful internal components, like the RTX 3070 Ti graphics card , and it’s wrapped up in Razer’s timeless black and green case. Read more about the specs below, but don’t wait too long to check it out yourself.
Why you should buy the Razer Blade 17 The Razer Blade 14 and Razer Blade 15 are included in our roundup of the best gaming laptops , which is a testament to the quality of the Razer Blade line. However, if you want a bigger screen while you play, it’s highly recommended that you go for the Razer Blade 17 with its 17.3-inch QHD display. The gaming laptop is powered by the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti graphics card , and 16GB of RAM , so running the best PC games will be a breeze, and it’s got a 1TB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded so that you can start installing your favorite titles right away.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
The Razer Blade 17 versus Dell XPS 17 comparison is obvious because of their similar screen sizes, but gamers should definitely go for the Razer Blade 17 because of its gaming-focused specifications, a 240Hz refresh rate that ensures super smooth gameplay, and stylish per-key RGB lighting.
There are all kinds of gaming laptop deals in the market, but if you’re searching for an offer at the higher end of the spectrum, then you should take a look at the Razer Blade 17. The powerful machine is yours for $2,000, following a $1,200 discount on its sticker price of $3,200. The Prime Day Big Deal Days sale will be over soon, so the Razer Blade 17 price may return to normal sooner than you expect. If you want to get the Razer Blade 17 gaming laptop at 37% off, it’s not enough that you add it to your cart — you should check out and complete the transaction as fast as you can.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Razer Black Friday deals: Save on gaming laptops, keyboards and more The best gaming PC Black Friday deals you can shop right now Best Dell Black Friday deals: Save on laptops, monitors, desktop PCs Deals Gaming Amazon Amazon Prime Day Laptops Computing HP has been around for quite a while now, and you're probably familiar with their lineups of desktops and Pavillion laptops, but that doesn't mean that they don't also make great gaming laptops as well. HP currently has two gaming-specific laptop brands, Omen and Victus, and they both have some great specifications. That said, if you can't find anything you like here, it is worth taking a look at these other best HP laptop Black Friday deals, our collection of the best gaming laptop deals in Best Buy’s Black Friday, and our general Black Friday laptop deals.
Best HP Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Much like other retailers, HP's lineup of AMD CPU gaming laptops is not as large. That said, they are generally more budget-friendly and power-efficient, and while the GPUs are on the lower end of the scale, these are great entry-to-mid-range gaming laptops for you to pick up.
Computing If the size of your laptop is the most important factor, a 17-inch screen is the way to go. Laptops this big are great for video editors, gamers, and people who stream a lot of content on their laptops. While the primary focus here is the screen size, there are some other benefits to larger laptops. For one, manufacturers can fit better components and fancier features into a large laptop. You'll see things on the list below like RGB keyboards and touchscreens. We've picked out options from across the Black Friday deals available today, including our favorite deal: $600 off the Dell XPS 17.
Best 17-inch laptop Black Friday deal The Dell XPS is one of our favorite laptop lines. They come in 13, 15 and 17 inches, and the XPS 17 is the cream of the crop. This particular model is on sale for $1,799, down $600 from its usual $2,399. Let's take a look under the hood.
Computing Black Friday and Cyber Monday sales keep coming earlier and earlier every year. Many of the best Black Friday deals are available to shop right now, in fact. So, if there's something in particular you need or that you've been looking for, now's an excellent time to start your shopping. You'll find the greatest discounts we've seen all year on TVs, computers, smart home goods, and so much more. It's also a great time to upgrade your workstation, whether that means a desktop or a laptop.
Knowing that, one of the best types of laptops you can buy is a 2-in-1, or rather a cross between a laptop and a tablet. They fold in various configurations, like a convertible, to allow for unique forms of use, like propping them up to watch a movie, or folding the keyboard back to rest the laptop on your lap and sketch out some art. There are quite a few contenders out there as to which model or brand offers the best 2-in-1, so to help, we've rounded up all of the best 2-in-1 laptop Black Friday deals in one place.
Best 2-in-1 laptop Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
