Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This 4TB SSD deal at Amazon cuts the price to $280 By Noah McGraw Close Samsung Is it time to upgrade the storage on your laptop or gaming PC? You should opt for an SSD. While there is nothing wrong with external hard drives or even internal HDDs, SSDs are smaller and faster than both those options. For instance, a 4TB SSD, which will likely double or triple the storage on your current laptop, is only about four inches in length and will disappear forever inside your computer.
Speaking of 4TB SSDs, Amazon is currently selling the Samsung 990 Pro 4TB SSD for only $280. That’s after a 19% discount to its original price of $345. If the brand name and the size are enough to sell you, click the Buy Now button and grab this SSD for a significant discount. If you’re not sure whether this is the right kind of storage for you, keep reading while we dive into the details of this Samsung SSD.
Why you should buy the Samsung 990 PRO 4TB SSD If you’re reading this article, chances are you already know the difference between SSD vs HDD.
 Suffice to say SSD have a lot of advantages over standard hard drives. Let’s dig into this Samsung 990 PRO in particular.
One thing SSDs do better than HDDs is file read speed. The Samsung 990 PRO has a sequential read speed of 7,450 Mbps. That’s fast enough to handle heavy duty gaming or workstation-level processes like massive calculations or video rendering. Samsung says that this Gen4 990 is their fastest and best performing SSD to date. When compared to the 980 PRO, the 990 PRO has 55% better random performance, 50% improved performance per watt, and faster read and write speeds overall. Also, we know it says it in the headline, but let us remind you that this is a 4TB SSD. You’ll be able to save tons of games, movies, and raw project files without worrying about running out of space any time soon.
This SSD also has some nice perks beyond general performance. It has a nickel-coated controller for thermal control, so it won’t overheat easily and drop in performance. You’ll also get access to Samsung Magician optimization tools, so you can protect specific, valuable data, monitor the SSD’s overall health and get automatic updates.
The Samsung 990 PRO 4TB SSD is on sale for $280, down $65 from its usual $345. It’s a quality SSD for a nice discount. Make sure to grab it soon, because the deal isn’t likely to last long.
Editors' Recommendations Best 4K monitor Black Friday deals from Samsung, Dell, LG, and more The best early Black Friday external hard drive and portable SSD deals HP gaming PC with RTX 4070, 1TB SSD is $600 off in early Black Friday deal The 17-inch Razer Blade gaming laptop $1,200 off right now Dell’s best business laptop is 50% off for a limited time Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Samsung Computing You may have missed Amazon's returning Prime Day deals from Prime Big Deal Days 2023, but you still have the chance to get the 15-inch Apple MacBook Air M2 for much cheaper than usual from Best Buy. Instead of $1,299, it's down to just $1,049, for savings of $250. It's still not cheap, but Apple fans know that you should take any opportunity to get the brand's products with a discount, because MacBook deals don't happen too often. You need to hurry with your purchase though, as we don't expect the offer to last much longer.
Why you should buy the 15-inch Apple MacBook Air M2 The Apple MacBook Air M2 is featured in our roundup of the best MacBooks as the top budget choice. For a relatively affordable price compared to Apple's other laptops, you'll experience the power of Apple's M2 chip, which is so efficient that it enables a battery life of up to 18 hours, and a fanless design that keeps the device completely silent while it's in use. The version of the Apple MacBook Air M2 with the gorgeous 15.3-inch Liquid Retina display comes with an 8-core CPU and a 10-core GPU that can complete tough tasks without any issues, 8GB of RAM for smooth performance, and a 256GB SSD for ample storage space.
Computing If you wanted to buy a gaming monitor from the recently concluded Prime Big Deal Days 2023 but you missed out, you shouldn't worry because some of the Prime Day deals are still available from other retailers. For example, Best Buy is selling the 28-inch Samsung Odyssey G7 gaming monitor at $250 off, bringing its price down to $550 from $800 originally. There's no telling how much time you have to take advantage of the savings though, so to make sure that you get it, you should be moving forward with the purchase right now.
Why you should buy the 28-inch Samsung Odyssey G7 gaming monitor Samsung's Odyssey line is a fixture in our roundup of the best gaming monitors, so you can be sure that the Samsung Odyssey G7 gaming monitor will be able to meet your needs as a gamer. The 28-inch display offers 4K Ultra HD resolution for sharp details and vivid colors that will let you appreciate the best PC games even better, and the monitor supports AMD's FreeSync Premium Pro and Nvidia's G-Sync to prevent any stuttering and screen tearing while you're in the middle of playing. It also features the Samsung Gaming Hub, where you can access the top cloud gaming services.
Computing Pairing your gaming PC with a top-quality gaming monitor is a necessity if you want to give justice to its power. Don't worry if you missed Amazon's October Prime Day deals because there's still an amazing offer that's available from Best Buy -- the 45-inch LG UltraGear OLED curved gaming monitor with a $400 discount that pulls its price down to $1,300 from $1,700. It's still not cheap, but once you start playing your favorite video games on this display, you'll wish you've purchased it earlier. Buy it now while you can get it for a more affordable price than usual.
Why you should buy the 45-inch LG UltraGear OLED curved gaming monitor The 45-inch LG UltraGear OLED curved gaming monitor features the brand's OLED technology, which can create perfect blacks, offer wide viewing angles, and enable ultra-fast refresh rates and response times. Our computer monitor buying guide explains refresh rate as how often the images on the screen are updated, while response time is how quickly image transitions are showed. At 240Hz and 0.03ms, respectively, for the 45-inch LG UltraGear OLED curved gaming monitor, you'll experience smooth and lag-free gameplay that will elevate the overall gaming experience.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
