Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best smart thermostats for Alexa By Simon Sage Close Smart thermostats are helpful in reducing your home’s energy use, and keeping things comfortable all the time. By factoring in local whether, presence of inhabitants, and electrical rates, you’ll barely need to touch the thermostat once it’s set up. On the occasion you do need to make some tweaks, hands-free assistants are often tied in. For those with a few Echo devices in the house, you’ll want a smart thermostat that plays nice with Alexa. Let’s dig into the best smart thermostats that work with Alexa.
Ecobee SmartThermostat with Voice Control Ecobee Ecobee remains one of our top picks for smart thermostats across the board. What makes Ecobee particularly Alexa-friendly is a model which has a built-in speaker and microphone. This feature allows users to talk directly to the thermostat as if it were just another Echo device. Ecobee makes a particularly strong name for itself thanks to remote sensors for multiple rooms. This helps your smart thermostat develop a more robust model for your home’s climate. The sensors also expand presence awareness, so important rooms stay at a comfortable temperature, while power isn’t wasted on rooms with less traffic.
Nest Learning Thermostat Google / Google Nest remains one of the top dogs in smart thermostats. A great interface and robust learning capabilities make for a compelling package overall. You can dig into your historical data to find inefficiencies and build your schedule around that, or let Nest automatically schedule when to manage the home temperature based on its own presence awareness. In addition to support for Alexa, you can also issue hands-free commends via Google Assistant and Apple’s Siri.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Sensi Lite Smart Thermostat Image used with permission by copyright holder Standout features of the Sensi Lite smart thermostat are the top-rated design, with a sleek and stylish appearance, and the DIY-friendly easy-installation. It works with most HVAC systems and no common wire (c-wire) is required for a majority of setups. It’s both smart home compatible and offers smart maintenance and usage opportunities, from filter replacement reminders to scheduling and energy-efficiency reports. It syncs with other smart home platforms and voice assistants like Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Samsung SmartThings. You can also tap into the features, functionality and reports from a top-rated mobile app, and control everything remotely, from anywhere. Moreover, Sensi won’t sell your personal information to third parties nor will it leverage any thermostat activity data for targeting or advertising purposes. Your experience is convenient and safe and comes from a company backed by over 100 years of HVAC expertise.
Amazon Smart Thermostat Where better to get an Alexa-compatible smart thermostat than directly from Amazon? Amazon’s foray into their own branded smart thermostat has been aided by Honeywell here. Its main claim to fame is a shockingly generous price tag. For only $60, you can have a perfectly capable smart thermostat with remote voice control, scheduling, and learning. A simple LED lets you see the current temperature, and hardware buttons are available if you want to tweak the thermostat the old-fashioned way.
Wyze Thermostat Wyze / Wyze The Wyze smart thermostat is a simple way of improving your home’s energy efficiency. Through the companion app, you can build schedules, get energy-saving tips, and keep tabs on your home’s temperature history. In addition to supporting Alexa and Google Assistant, the Wyze thermostat slides in at a very reasonable $70 price tag. Wyze has a whole family of other smart home products, so you can count on their thermostat playing nice with their security cameras.
Smart thermostat shopping tips Finding the perfect smart thermostat can be challenging with so many options. We’re going to answer some of the most frequently asked questions when it comes to Alexa-enabled smart thermostats.
What thermostat can I use with Alexa? Most smart thermostats feature compatibility with Amazon Alexa. With it, you can raise the temperature, lower the temperature, set schedules, and check the current status. This all requires a way to issue commands, which is typically through Amazon’s Echo smart speakers. Even without them, you can install the Alexa app on your phone to issue commands. All of the thermostats listed here work with Alexa, but new ones are released all the time.
Can Alexa run my thermostat? The easiest way to see if your smart thermostat supports Alexa is to download the app.
Tap the Devices tab.
Tap the + button in the top-right corner.
Tap Add Device.
Scroll down and tap Thermostat.
Browse the available brands for your model.
If your smart thermostat otherwise advertises compatibility with Alexa, you can check the Alexa Skills store to see if it ties in that way. If it does, you’ll typically need to also install a separate app specific to that thermostat to connect to Alexa. While checking for Alexa compatibility, you should also see if your electrical wiring works with any potential smart thermostat.
Is Alexa compatible with Honeywell thermostats? Yes, Alexa is compatible with a handful of Honeywell thermostats. In fact, Amazon’s own Smart Thermostat was made with Honeywell Home compatibility.
How much is an Alexa thermostat? Alexa-compatible thermostats can be available for as little as $60.
Hopefully, these should provide plenty of options for those fully-invested in the Alexa ecosystem. With any one of them, you should be able to control your smart thermostat with hands-free voice commands sent to the nearest Echo. If you’re still on the fence about why you’d want a smart thermostat at all, we’ve got a few reasons why you might want to pick one up.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats The best Vitamix blender Black Friday deals — from just $125 The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Amazon Amazon Alexa Best Products Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home If you want to bring your thermostat into the age of smart tech, it's highly recommended that you check out the Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals that are available for Black Friday. The discounts on the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat aren't expected to last long though, as stocks are already probably running low. If you need help looking for Black Friday deals involving either smart home device, and if you're having trouble deciding which one to go for, you'll get your answers below. To complete your smart home, check out Nest Black Friday deals and Ring Black Friday deals too.
Best Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals Different retailers have slashed the prices of the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat, so there's no shortage of options on where you want to purchase these smart home devices. However, so you can secure your Nest Thermostat quickly, we've rounded up our favorite picks below -- you'll still have to act fast though, as the offers may end at any moment.
Google Nest Thermostat -- Smart Home Ring has made some of the most popular tech for the smart home over the last decade or so, with the Ring Video Doorbell becoming a staple of home security. But Ring makes a lot of tech products for around the house, and with Black Friday around the corner, a lot of it is already starting to be discounted. Some of the best early Black Friday deals are on products made by Ring, and we’ve tracked down some of the best deals on Ring products you can find for Black Friday.
Check out Nest Black Friday deals and Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals for similar discounts.
Best Ring Doorbell Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
