Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Alexa Guard vs. Nest Aware: which is the better option? By Michael Bizzaco Close Alexa Guard and Nest Aware are two smart security systems that work alongside your existing lineup of smart home products. By enabling one or the other, your devices can provide you with additional home security features — such as alerting you when a smoke alarm is going off or turning lights on and off while you’re out of town.
Features Price Setup and compatibility The verdict There’s a lot to love about both services, as Google and Amazon have put together a list of surprisingly robust features for their respective systems. While they probably won’t fill the same gaps as a dedicated security system , they’re a great (and affordable) way to keep your home safe without investing in new equipment.
Here’s a look at Alexa Guard and Nest Aware to help you decide which is best for your home.
Google’s Nest Aware service is getting more expensive Nest Doorbell vs. Ring Battery Doorbell Plus: which is the better video doorbell? Echo Pop vs. Nest Mini: which is the better smart speaker? Features Image used with permission by copyright holder Alexa Guard Amazon’s Alexa Guard offers two distinct tiers of service — the free version of the home monitoring suite referred to simply as Alexa Guard, along with a paid version of the service known as Alexa Guard Plus.
Under the free tier, Alexa Guard will use the far-field mics on your Echo products to listen for the sounds of glass breaking and fire/carbon monoxide alarms in your home. If these sounds are detected, Alexa will send a notification to whatever mobile device you use the Alexa app on. When enabled, Alexa Guard will also randomly turn on/off smart lights to make it seem like someone is home, and can even be integrated with Ring Alarm, ADT Pulse, ADT Control, and Scout Alarm for additional home monitoring.
With Alexa Guard Plus, additional benefits include access to Amazon’s 24/7 emergency hotline and the ability for Echo products to listen for intrusive sounds around the home> It will also play dog barks and siren sounds if your Echo speaker or display detects motion or hears an intruder.
Google Nest Aware Google’s Nest Aware also offers two tiers of service, although both are locked behind paywalls. The standard Nest Aware plan interfaces with a number of Google’s Nest cameras and video doorbells, allowing you to store motion-triggered event videos in Google’s cloud for up to 30 days. While you can still use a Nest camera or doorbell without a Nest Aware subscription, you won’t be able to save any video events.
The standard Nest Aware plan also includes Nest speaker and display monitoring for the sounds of glass breaking and smoke/carbon monoxide alarms, along with a feature called “familiar face detection” that allows your smart cameras to learn who your friends and family are by adding them as recognized visitors in the Nest app. That means whenever your uncle shows up at the front door, your Nest doorbell will send you an alert saying “Uncle Mark is at the front door.” The second tier of service is known as Nest Aware Plus, and it adds 60 days of video event storage, as well as 10 days of 24/7 continuous video recording. As part of both tiers of service, users also have the ability to dial 911 through the Google Home app in the event of an emergency.
In years past, users would have to pay for a Nest Aware plan for each Nest product in their smart ecosystem. Thankfully, Google lightened the load by allowing Nest Aware plans to apply to every compatible Nest device on your network.
The winner In terms of overall features, both Alexa Guard and Nest Aware are fairly neck and neck, but Nest Aware grants users the ability to store potentially crucial event videos to the Home app for future reference. While both versions of Alexa Guard offer quite a bit, cloud storage for event recordings is not one of them. Thus, Nest Aware earns a point.
Price Alexa Guard As mentioned, Amazon offers two tiers of Alexa Guard. The standard Alexa Guard plan is actually completely free. The second tier, Alexa Guard Plus, costs $5 per month or $50 per year and covers all the Echo devices on your network.
Also, note that Alexa Guard Plus is included with your Ring Protect Pro and Plus (1st Gen) subscriptions once you’ve linked your Ring and Amazon accounts.
Nest Aware Google’s Nest Aware is also available in two different tiers. The regular Nest Aware subscription is $6 per month or $60 per year, with Nest Aware Plus costing $12 per month or $120 per year. Do keep in mind that the latter nets homeowners an extra 30 days of video event storage, along with 24/7 continuous video recording.
The winner Speaking purely of overall value, we’re giving a point to Alexa Guard.
 Not to undermine any of the great features one gets with Nest Aware, but it’s especially convenient for device owners to be able to experience smart security add-ons at no cost whatsoever.
Setup and compatibility Alexa Guard Activating Alexa Guard is a fairly quick process that is handled straight through the Alexa app. To get things started, grab whatever device your Alexa app is on and launch it. Next, tap More , then Settings.
 Under Settings , tap Guard , then Set Up Guard.
 From here, all you need to do is follow the on-screen instructions to complete your setup.
When leaving the home, all you have to do to enable Alexa Guard is say “I’m leaving” to your Echo device. Your smart hub will display a spinning white light, indicating Alexa Guard is toggled on. When you return home, simply say “I’m home” to turn off Guard.
Alexa Guard and Alexa Guard Plus are supported by Amazon’s Echo and Echo Dot speakers, Echo Show displays, and Echo Plus products.
Nest Aware Unlike Alexa Guard, once a Nest Aware plan is added to your Google Home account, the service is active across all devices until you decide to cancel it. There’s no toggle on/off required.
Nest Aware and Nest Aware Plus are supported by Google’s Nest Cam IQ, Nest Hello, Nest Cam Outdoor, Nest Cam Outdoor IQ, and Nest Hub Max.
The winner The ability to toggle Alexa Guard on/off is convenient, but not necessarily a deal breaker when weighing both systems. In terms of support, both Guard and Nest offer great compatibility across their smart home ecosystems. Let’s call this one a draw.
The verdict John Velasco / Digital Trends Both Alexa Guard and Nest Aware offer several ways to keep your home under lock and key while you’re out for the day or vacationing for several weeks. While Nest Aware is a bit heavier on the wallet, the ability to store event-triggered and consistent video recordings (with Nest Aware Plus) is a huge perk for Google Home users.
Alexa Guard offers plenty of its own awesome features, plus full Echo compatibility, along with a free tier of the Guard service for those that want to give it a try without committing to a monthly membership.
A tough call, indeed. So, in fairness to both brands, we’re going to wave the white flag and call this matchup a tie.
Editors' Recommendations Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? Google TV vs. Roku TV: which is the better streaming OS? Amazon Smart Thermostat vs. Nest Thermostat: Which should you buy? Echo Pop vs. Echo Dot: which is the better smart speaker? What to know before you enable Alexa Guard Amazon Amazon Alexa Google Google Nest Versus Smart Home The first step toward building a smart home is deciding which smart home platform to use. Google Home and Amazon Alexa are two of the best on the market, offering support for hundreds of third-party devices, powerful automation options, and intuitive smartphone apps that drive all the action.
But which is the better smart home platform -- Google Home or Amazon Alexa? Here’s a closer look at these two powerhouses to help you decide.
What is a smart home platform? Smart Home First announced in 2019, Alexa Guard brings a second layer of protection to your smart home by listening for certain sounds that indicate there’s an emergency. The service has a few limitations, but Amazon has addressed those drawbacks with Alexa Guard Plus -- a premium subscription that offers tons of enhanced features. But what exactly is the difference between Alexa Guard and Alexa Guard Plus? We break it down in this guide.
What is Alexa Guard? Alexa Guard listens out for the sounds of breaking glass, smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide (CO) detectors. During setup, you can indicate which sounds you want Alexa to listen for, so if you only want Alexa to listen for breaking glass and not fire alarms, you can indicate that preference.
Smart Home The Sonos One and Google Nest Audio are two of the best smart speakers of 2023. Both can pump out impressive sound, respond to a wide variety of voice commands, and easily sync up with the rest of your smart home. But with the Sonos One costing more than $200 and the Google Nest Audio clocking in at just $100, you might be wondering if the Sonos One is truly worth your money -- or if you’d be better off saving $100 and opting for the cheaper Google product.
Before picking up either smart speaker, here’s a closer look at the Sonos One and Google Nest Audio.
Pricing and availability Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
