Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home News Amazon to pay $30M in FTC settlements over Alexa, Ring privacy violations By Trevor Mogg Close Amazon has agreed to pay $25 million to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to settle charges over privacy violations linked to its digital assistant, Alexa.
In a separate case, Amazon-owned Ring will pay $5.8 million for violations of users’ privacy.
First, let’s look at the Alexa case. It involves alleged violations of children’s privacy rights, with the tech giant accused of keeping recordings of voice interactions with Alexa for years after they were made, along with location history, in violation of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA).
Is your Amazon Echo, Alexa, or Ring down today? You aren’t alone How to connect a Ring Video Doorbell to Alexa The Amazon Echo Loop is a smart ring that puts Alexa at your fingertips The proposed settlement, filed by the Department of Justice on behalf of the FTC, means that besides the payment, Amazon will have to delete inactive child accounts along with stored voice recordings and geolocation information. Amazon would also be barred from using the data to train its algorithms (customers can already choose not to have their voice recordings used to help improve Alexa in the Alexa app or online). The proposed order must be approved by the federal court to go into effect.
“Children’s speech patterns and accents differ from those of adults, so the unlawfully retained voice recordings provided Amazon with a valuable database for training the Alexa algorithm to understand children, benefitting its bottom line at the expense of children’s privacy,” the FTC said.
Commenting on the case, Samuel Levine, director of the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection, said in a release : “Amazon’s history of misleading parents, keeping children’s recordings indefinitely, and flouting parents’ deletion requests violated COPPA and sacrificed privacy for profits. COPPA does not allow companies to keep children’s data forever for any reason, and certainly not to train their algorithms.” A separate suit filed by the FTC accuses Amazon’s Ring doorbell unit of violating part of the FTC Act banning unfair or deceptive business practices. Amazon has chosen to settle by agreeing to pay the agency $5.8 million.
The FTC said Ring misled customers by failing to restrict employees’ and contractors’ access to customers’ videos, and by using those videos to train algorithms, without obtaining consent.
Offering an example, it said that one employee “over several months viewed thousands of video recordings belonging to female users of Ring cameras that surveilled intimate spaces in their homes such as their bathrooms or bedrooms.” The employee was only stopped when another employee discovered the misconduct.
According to the proposed settlement terms, Ring will have to erase customer videos and data collected from an individual’s face that it obtained before 2018.
Responding to both cases, Amazon said: “Our devices and services are built to protect customers’ privacy, and to provide customers with control over their experience. While we disagree with the FTC’s claims regarding both Alexa and Ring, and deny violating the law, these settlements put these matters behind us.” Want to find out more about how to enable privacy settings on Alexa? Digital Trends has you covered.
Editors' Recommendations What does the Amazon Echo yellow ring color mean? How to get Alexa to answer a Ring Video Doorbell Best Amazon year-end deals on Alexa-compatible Echo and Ring smart home devices A Delaware senator stepped into the ring with Amazon over information privacy Grab a Fire HD, Ring Doorbell, and other great devices in this Amazon sale Amazon Amazon Alexa Tech for Change Tech News The Food Fight Video Doorbells Deals Ring's latest battery-powered doorbell, the Ring Video Doorbell 2, is now on sale on Amazon for one of the lowest prices we've seen yet. To sweeten the deal, Amazon's throwing in a free third-generation Echo Dot at no additional cost.
The doorbell normally retails for $199 on its own, and we've seen several sales offering it for as low as $179. But here Amazon's offering it for just $169, and with the free Echo Dot, it's arguably the best deal we've seen so far. We'd recommend that you act quickly, as Amazon has marked these deals as "limited time offers," meaning the price could go back up at any time.
Deals Amazon slashed prices with Easter deals on Echo Dot Alexa smart speakers, Ring video doorbells and security systems, and more, including Fire Tablets. Some of the best deals are for multiple-unit purchases. Most Ring deals include a free Amazon Echo Dot in addition to healthy price cuts. There's no announced end date, but Easter isn't until next Sunday.
Amazon discounts its brands often, but some of the device deals in this Easter sale have the best prices we've seen since last November's Black Friday. We gathered the best Easter deals for Amazon brand devices, with savings of as much as $100.
Amazon Echo Dot 3-pack -- $80 off Smart Home Two new patent applications from Ring, recently acquired by Amazon, indicate that the company is interested in technology that could potentially identify what it deems “suspicious” individuals -- convicted felons, sex offenders or people on a “most wanted” list among them -- and automatically report them to the police, including copies of any video surveillance the smart doorbell captures.
CNN found two patents filed by Ring’s chief executive Jamie Siminoff that hypothesize that video surveillance that reports bad actors to the police immediately would be “a powerful deterrent against would-be burglars,” and could potentially compare such facial images to a “database of suspicious persons.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
