Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Amazon Alexa accessories: lights, plugs, thermostats, cameras, and more By Michael Bizzaco and Jenny McGrath Close When it comes to smart home ecosystems, Amazon Alexa is at the top of the class. Not only can you create incredible routines and automate hundreds of tasks, but the number of Alexa-compatible gadgets seems to grow larger by the day. Better yet, Amazon is committed to making many of its hubs (including just about everything in the Echo lineup) work seamlessly with the Matter standard — which should only make things more exciting throughout 2023.
In this guide, we review some of the best interactive Alexa hardware in the way of speakers, displays, lights, wall plugs, thermostats, smart locks, cameras, and appliances. You can make your life easier with an Alexa-powered home, and we’ll show you where to begin.
The best Alexa smart speakers and displays Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re going all-in on the smart home , you’ll want a good speaker or smart display. The best Echo device for you depends on your situation. What budget are you working with? Do you want a smart speaker or a smart display ? Do you want an Echo device with a hub built in? Do you want an Echo with exceptional sound quality, or do you plan on connecting an external speaker for music playback? If you’re simply looking for basic Alexa functionality and the ability to control your smart devices with your voice, the latest Echo Dot is an ideal choice because it’s cost-effective and it has a small profile. You can also opt for the Echo Dot with Clock , so you can see the time, the weather, or a countdown timer right on the front of the device.
Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The Echo Pop is another great option. It’s the lowest-priced smart speaker in the Echo family, yet still gives you access to the Alexa voice assistant. It also sounds surprisingly great, although its audio gets a bit muddy at higher volumes. But for a cheap smart speaker, you’d be hard-pressed to find a better option.
If you’re more serious about getting a smart speaker that can really fill the room with sound, then you should take a look at the regular Amazon Echo speaker (4th Gen), which is designed to broadcast 360-degree sound around the room, while using Alexa to control any smart devices around the home (and it’s compatible with Zigbee, too).
Or maybe you’re looking for a smart display that adds a useful touchscreen to show updates, internet searches, or videos while you work. These displays can also connect to compatible security cams and give you live feeds if you receive any alerts! The Echo Show 8 is a smaller model that can happily fit on a kitchen counter or desk, while the Echo Show 10 is a bold update with a swiveling base.
And for keeping up with the family via digital sticky notes and shared calendars, there’s also the Echo Show 15.
 You can display this bad boy in either landscape or portrait orientations, and it can even be mounted to a wall.
The best Alexa-compatible lights Philips LEDs are taking over the world, and they represent one of the easiest ways to start smartening up your home. Some smart lights require an external bridge to connect to Alexa, but others just need to be screwed in like an ordinary bulb. When you purchase a smart light bulb , the manufacturer will usually state whether or not a separate bridge is required. Typically, you can schedule most smart lights to turn off at a certain time every night. But with Alexa integration, you can easily ask your speaker to turn them back on if you have one more Netflix episode to get through before you turn in.
Philips Hue has one of the most versatile lighting systems around and makes some of our favorite LEDs.
 Whether you’re opting for white bulbs, color, or light strips, there are a variety of Hue options — we are partial to this combo starter kit.
 The company also sells individual bulbs with options that don’t always require the Philips hub.
If you want to explore other brands, we also highly recommend Kasa smart bulbs , which are both reliable and affordable as an alternative.
Sengled bulbs are another excellent bridgeless option, plus you can often find single bulbs for less than $20.
The Roku Smart Bulb SE is another great option, as you can typically snag a four-pack for just $24 — making it one of the most affordable options on the market.
It takes a bit more effort, but Lutron Caséta in-wall dimmers are a reliable way to turn your lights on or off or get varying degrees of brightness. You can do all that with voice commands through Alexa and group them so you don’t have to turn off individual switches in succession. You will need to install an included smart bridge for these bulbs to work.
The best Alexa-compatible smart plugs Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart plugs are great for turning non-connected devices into things you can control remotely. Whether you have a lamp with a busted or hard-to-reach switch, or you just tend to leave your coffee maker on, a connected plug can turn them on or off for you. Alexa compatibility is especially nice because you can ask her to turn on your reading lamp without having to get up from your chair.
The Amazon Smart Plug smart plug has a slim design, so you can fit two on a single outlet. Using the Alexa app, you can set schedules and you can even set up If This Then That functions to make its capabilities more robust. When it comes to finding a smart plug that’s both affordable and powerful, it’s hard to beat Amazon’s first-party product.
The best Alexa-compatible thermostats Amazon Some of the most popular smart thermostats of 2023 are also Alexa-compatible, and Amazon even makes a thermostat of its own.
Billed simply as the Amazon Smart Thermostat , this cost-friendly device uses Alexa to automatically adjust the temperature and build customized schedules for powering your HVAC on and off based on when you’re home or away. It’s a great first step into the world of smart thermostats, although consider taking a look at our list of the best thermostats when you’re ready to up your game.
The best Alexa-compatible smart locks Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart locks are no doubt convenient for letting in the dog walker when you’re not home, but they make some people nervous. We recommend the August Smart Lock , which works with your existing lock, making it a great choice for renters who have landlords that need access to their units. (It’s also our pick for best smart lock.
) For a more traditional smart lock appearance that also works great with Alexa, check out the Wyze Smart Lock.
Pairing with Alexa means you can check the status of the lock, lock it, or even unlock it with voice commands. Getting it to unlock your door requires a vocally recited pin, so you probably don’t want to shout at your speaker from outside your house.
The powerful Yale Assure Lock 2 is another great option. Available in a variety of different formats (such as keyless and touchscreen), the Assure Lock 2 is one of the best smart locks available today. Responsive, easy on the eyes, and with a powerful smartphone app, there’s not much this little device can’t do. Toss in support for Alexa, and it’s an easy recommendation.
The best Alexa-compatible security cameras Image used with permission by copyright holder One big reason people start getting smart devices for their homes is security, so there is no shortage of security cameras that let you do DIY monitoring of your property. As we mentioned, the newest Echo Shows can also tap into security cam feeds whenever you want The Arlo Pro 4 cam is an impressive security product that gives you access to 30 days of cloud recording, night vision, weather-resistant options, and fully wireless installation. Plus, because Arlo is one of the brands that work with the Amazon devices above, you see the video feed on-screen.
Some of our other favorite security cameras can also do the same: The Blink Mini is a great indoor option with two-way audio, while the Zmodo outdoor security cam pack is a great option for more professional needs. If you need a floodlight with Alexa support, consider springing for the new Blink Wired Floodlight Camera.
 It clocks in at just $99, yet can capture HD video and light up your entire yard with its 2,600-lumen LED lights.
The best AV devices with Alexa Image used with permission by copyright holder Even those who don’t have a Bluetooth speaker may be interested in an Alexa-controlled speaker that can play your music or function as part of your entertainment system, or perhaps even both. If this description sounds like something that’s up your alley, the Sonos brand is an easy recommendation.
If a soundbar that functions as part of a larger entertainment system and fits below a TV is more your speed, you should check out the Sonos Beam or the Sonos Arc.
The Sonos One is a great solution for those looking for a central speaker for your next party or other gatherings.
 Amazon’s Echo Studio is another attractive option that delivers a fully dynamic 3D sound that is sure to get the good times rolling at your next party.
But what about when it comes time to stream your favorite shows? Can Alexa help with that too? The answer is yes, thanks to the Amazon Fire TV Stick and Fire TV Cube.
 Once connected, both streamers unlock hundreds of hours of entertainment content, ranging from movies and TV shows to music and arcade-style games. Not to mention if you’re running an Echo speaker ecosystem in your home, you can pair the speakers to the Amazon streaming devices for expanded surround sound — no speaker wire required! The best Alexa-compatible appliances We plan on seeing more and more appliances with added Alexa support. Whirlpool has led the charge, practically going all-in on Alexa a few years back. A large number of its fridges, dishwashers, wall ovens, ranges, and microwaves come equipped with Wi-Fi connectivity and voice activation.
Bosch also offers a full line of Alexa-enabled appliances. You can even have Alexa make your morning coffee with this Hamilton Beach coffee maker.
The iRobot Roomba 675 and Shark IQ 101AE Robot are Alexa-enabled vacuums. They even go so far as to empty themselves after they finish sweeping your home for you.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more The best KitchenAid mixer Black Friday deals (and accessories from $17) Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles Amazon Amazon Alexa Best Products Smart Apartment Smart Home The wait is finally over because Black Friday deals are now online, bringing discounts on all kinds of home appliances -- including vacuums. Whether you're planning to purchase an upright vacuum, a robot vacuum, or a cordless vacuum, you won't find any shortage of bargains, though we understand that the sheer number of offers may look overwhelming. To help you decide what to buy, we've rounded up the best Black Friday vacuum deals that you can purchase right now, which should give you the advantage over other shoppers. Hurry up, as stocks are probably selling quickly.
Best Black Friday vacuum deals An upright vacuum is still one of the most popular options if you want a cleaning device to pick up all kinds of dirt, debris, and pet hair. You're going to have to deal with a cord, but most people are probably used to them by now and it's a small price to pay for consistent power. Retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart are offering discounted prices for upright vacuums from different brands, so whether you're on a tight budget or you're willing to splurge on one with all the bells and whistles, you'll surely find a deal that catches your attention.
Smart Home With all the Black Friday deals going on at the moment, this is the perfect time to buy yourself a home improvement. We all hate having to vacuum so often so that's why a robot vacuum is such a tempting proposition. Right now, there are some fantastic Black Friday vacuum deals around so you can save big on the best way to clean your home with minimal effort. Keep reading and you'll see all the great deals we've found, including major brands like Roomba and Shark Black Friday deals, along with the best robot vacuums.
Best Shark robot vacuum Black Friday deals Shark is a respectable name in the robot vacuum world with one of its models featuring among our look at the best robot vacuum and mop combos. Alongside Shark is the Ninja brand which is a great indicator of the quality of all its products. Shark makes many different robot vacuums covering different price ranges and needs, so there's generally something for everyone.
Smart Home Shark makes a whole range of products, from hair dryers to air purifiers, and they're pretty reasonably priced compared to similar products from other brands. Even better, with November becoming the new Black Friday, there are a ton of great early Black Friday deals you can take advantage of on Shark products. Naturally, these deals are distributed across several different retailers, so we've done our best to collect the best deals and bring them to you here. Also, be sure to check back regularly as we update this page with newer and better deals.
Best Shark Hair Dryer Black Friday Deals While Shark might not be as fancy of a company as Dyson, they do make a pretty good hair dryer, and it even looks quite similar to the Dyson Supersonic. Luckily, none of Shark's products are as expensive, so you can get yourself a high-quality hair dryer for a pretty good price. But if it has to be a Dyson, check out Dyson Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
