Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Amazon Alexa smart speakers By Tyler Lacoma Close The best Alexa smart speakers don't just offer support for the voice assistant -- they also sound good, look good, and bring great value to your home. They often serve as the "brains" of a connected smart home, as you can give commands to the rest of your Alexa-enabled products just by talking to your smart speaker.
But with so many Alexa smart speakers on the market in 2023, it can be a challenge when narrowing down your options. It's hard to go wrong with anything from Amazon, Bose, Sonos, and other reputable brands – but which model is best for you? For this list, we focused on the best smart speakers you can find with Alexa built-in. These speakers allow you to make calls to your contacts, play music from your favorite streaming service, set up smart home routines, and even have Alexa help guard your home.
 Take a look! Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos Era 100 Best Alexa speaker for the smart home Big, expansive sound Bluetooth now built-in Optional analog line-in Super-easy room tuning No Google Assistant option The Sonos Era 100 is the successor to the iconic Sonos One. It’s built with a faster processor, improved acoustics, and native support for Bluetooth.
One of the coolest features on the smart speaker is Trueplay tuning. Using the accompanying smartphone app, you can allow the device to automatically tune itself based on the acoustics of your room. The feature makes it easy to find the perfect sound without wading through dozens of menus and fiddling with a bunch of sliders.
How you control the device has also been reworked. Instead of using gestures on top of the unit (as was the case with the Sonos One), track selection and volume controls are now distinct buttons. They’re not backlit and can be a bit hard to see in the dark, but there's no doubt that it’s a big upgrade from the Sonos One.
Like most products in the Sonos catalog, the Era 100 isn’t cheap. But if you don’t mind its price tag, you’ll be well-served by this Amazon-enabled smart speaker.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sonos One (Gen 2) Runner-up Alexa and Google Assistant support High-quality audio Sonos pairing support with other speakers Needs to be plugged in and connected to Wi-Fi to work The Sonos One is an all-around incredible smart speaker, designed to sit on a shelf or counter and fill a room with sound. With the addition of Alexa, you can also tap into the voice assistant’s wide range of capabilities, like answering questions or scheduling reminders and timers. The speaker also works with Google Assistant, so there’s no need to pick a favorite unless you want to.
Like most smart speakers, the Sonos One does require a Wi-Fi connection for voice assistants to work, but it also supports Airplay 2 and other technologies, along with easy app controls if you don’t feel like using your voice. It can also link easily to another Sonos speaker or speaker system, allowing for innovative setups from being part of a home theater system to linking two speakers together for more stereo-like sound.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon Echo (4th Gen) Best Alexa speaker for Amazon fans Charming new spherical design Dazzling LED light ring Acts as an Amazon Sidewalk Bridge Great sounding audio Bass strains at highest volume Amazon’s flagship Echo device doesn’t disappoint with its new orb-like design that still has great 360-degree sound for the size. The speaker works solely via the Alexa app, so you don’t have to worry about juggling apps to get what you want.
The rounded design is also in the speaker’s favor, making it easy to put anywhere and giving it graceful indicators like the LED base to show notifications and more.
 Amazon also has both a battery base accessory so that you don’t need to keep the speaker near an outlet and a wall mount if you don’t want to place the Echo on a counter — options that are rarely native to smart speakers.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon Echo Studio Best Alexa speaker for audiophiles Class-leading bass Slick and simple setup Dolby Atmos and 360 Reality Audio support Large, sprawling soundstage All the Alexa smarts Midrange occasionally muffled Brittle touch to lighter instruments 3D music still in limited supply Those primarily interested in sound may already have invested in a high-quality audio system or started listening to more spatial audio songs: The Echo Studio is a great companion to this setup with its focus on music and a larger design featuring five internal speakers to cover bass, midrange, and highs more completely. The speaker also includes sensors that can adapt the audio to the nearby acoustics no matter where you decide to place the speaker.
For those who have a host of smart devices, the Studio is also one of the only Alexa speakers left that can support the older Zigbee smart protocol , which may be important for controlling certain devices in your home. This is also a good time to mention that Alexa allows you to choose a default music service to play from including Apple Music, Spotify , Tidal, and more, which makes giving song-related commands a lot easier.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon Echo Show 15 Best Alexa smart display Huge 15.6-inch screen Widget functionality makes it easy to see tasks, smart home, and more at a glance Different orientation options Visual ID swaps between users Lacks customization and personalization options Software crashes without explanation The Echo Show line adds a touchscreen to the Echo speaker, something we really like for its expanded options – you can use it to watch shows, view a photo slideshow, video chat, and do a whole lot more. While the Echo Show 10 was a fine example, its rotating display certainly wasn’t for everyone. But the Echo Show 15 is a massive improvement: The screen is larger than ever at 15 inches, and it sports a versatile design that allows you to hang the Show 15 on a wall or stand it on a counter.
These qualities make the Echo Show 15 one of the best smart displays we’ve seen to date, especially when you want to use it to watch shows or as an interactive wall calendar or – well, so much more. It fits well in a kitchen, office, hallway, or similar spot in the home. Just remember to keep it within arm’s reach, and purchase the stand if you need it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon Echo Dot (5th Gen) Best Alexa smart speaker Compact footprint Vastly improved sound quality Clock shows more useful info New temperature sensor Added Wi-Fi features Only works as Wi-Fi booster if you're already on Amazon eero network The Echo Dot 4 was a vast improvement to the Echo Dot line, staying affordable while offering surprisingly big sound for its size. But the Echo Dot 5th-generation made even more improvements to the model, making it a better fit for a smart home.
Let’s start with the model options: There’s an LED version you can use as an alarm clock in places like the bedroom and a kids' version with colorful skins and a subscription to Amazon’s kids' content. The new speaker is also equipped with extra sensors to detect when someone has entered a room, allowing you to link it to things like smart lights or thermostat changes when people come home.
There’s even compatibility with Eero’s mesh Wi-Fi network system (now also owned by Amazon), so the speaker can act as a Wi-Fi extender for spots in the house that may not be getting good coverage. Really, it’s amazing what the speaker can do for the price.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Bose Home Speaker 500 Best high-end Alexa speaker Expansive stereo sound Sleek, attractive design Choice of Alexa or Google Assistant Easy-to-use controls Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and line-in options AirPlay 2 Expensive Some music services not supported Slightly awkward multiroom control No Chromecast option for Android Those who want a little of everything may finally find their perfect solution in this Bose model. It’s a large speaker that produces seriously impressive sound and supports both Alexa and Google Assistant. There are also more sound options than most smart speakers with touch panel presets for your favorite music options and adjustments via the Bose Music app.
The speaker even has a little mini display that can display the current song and some album artwork, making it easy to show off at parties and other get-togethers. But all these features do come at a price, and it’s no surprise this there's a hefty price tag here too.
Sonos Sonos Roam Best portable speaker with Alexa support Excellent design Lightweight and portable Totally water and dustproof Very good sound for its size Choice of smart speaker assistants Wireless charging No Bluetooth stereo pairing Doesn’t work as a speakerphone Less battery life than some other speakers If you want to bring your smart speaker on the road with you, then look no further than the Sonos Roam. Offering a waterproof design, impressive sound, and full support for Amazon Alexa, few portable speakers can match the spec sheet of the Sonos Roam. It’s also relatively affordable, clocking in under $200.
Because it’s built by Sonos, you know you’re getting a product that can pump out incredible sound despite its tiny footprint. Much of that is due to its accompanying smartphone app that lets you adjust its settings on the fly, along with an Automatic Trueplay feature that optimizes performance based on the acoustics of your surroundings.
Toss in multiple available colors, a battery that runs for ten hours on a single charge, and a simple setup process, and you’ve got one of the best portable Amazon Alexa smart speakers money can buy.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Echo Pop Best affordable speaker with Alexa support The price is right Decent sound Mostly all the features Bonus Eero extender No aux input Clocking in at just $40, the Echo Pop offers much more than its price tag would suggest. Access to the Alexa voice assistant is the biggest selling point, but its audio output is no slouch – although it does start to get a bit distorted at higher volumes. It also comes with Eero built in, making your wireless connections better than ever. A vareity of color options are available, and if you're looking for an affordable way to bring Alexa integrations into your home, the Pop deserves a much closer look. It might not be a great fit for audiophiles, but it's well-suited for playing background music as you work.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos Era 300 Best Alexa speaker for home theaters Dolby Atmos Music-compatible Incredible, immersive sound Easy, fast room tuning Perfect as home theater surrounds Line-in for analog sources Bluetooth, AirPlay 2 No Google Assistant The Sonos Era 300 is one of the newest additions to the Sonos catalog. Building on the success of the Sonos One, the Era 300 offers incredible, immersive, room-filling sound that makes it both a great smart speaker and addition to your home theater. Its design is a bit quirkier than others on this list (boasting a unique hourglass shape), but its size allows it to pack in premium drivers that churn out crisp audio. Best of all, it features built-in support for Alexa. So if you’re looking for a premium smart speaker and don’t mind the large footprint, you can’t do better than this.
Frequently Asked Questions The most important thing in a voice assistant is that it's compatible with your other smart home devices. Check for compatibility before buying. But this has improved over time. As for the voice assistant itself, we've found that it does some things better, while other assistants like Google's have their strengths, too. Alexa is particularly good at a wide variety of voice commands, while other voice assistants are a bit more accurate for internet searches.
Yes. There is no fee necessary to use Alexa, although some services that Alexa can access may require fees, like Apple Music or Amazon Prime.
Voice assistants like Alexa only activate when speakers pick up their wake word, which is usually set to "Alexa" or "Echo" in this case. Then they typically record the command that follows. You can adjust settings so that commands are immediately discarded rather than saved for analysis. You can also manually shut off mics whenever you want.
Yes, all Alexa speakers have Bluetooth, which means you can quickly pair it to a phone or tablet to play music.
Are you looking for something a little more portable that still works with Alexa? Take a look at our current best picks for portable smart speakers.
 You’re likely to find some options that support the voice assistant.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 The best KitchenAid mixer Black Friday deals (and accessories from $17) The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best Black Friday washer and dryer bundle deals happening now Amazon Amazon Alexa Best Products Smart Home Ring has made some of the most popular tech for the smart home over the last decade or so, with the Ring Video Doorbell becoming a staple of home security. But Ring makes a lot of tech products for around the house, and with Black Friday around the corner, a lot of it is already starting to be discounted. Some of the best early Black Friday deals are on products made by Ring, and we’ve tracked down some of the best deals on Ring products you can find for Black Friday.
Check out Nest Black Friday deals and Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals for similar discounts.
Best Ring Doorbell Black Friday deals Smart Home The wait is finally over because Black Friday deals are now online, bringing discounts on all kinds of home appliances -- including vacuums. Whether you're planning to purchase an upright vacuum, a robot vacuum, or a cordless vacuum, you won't find any shortage of bargains, though we understand that the sheer number of offers may look overwhelming. To help you decide what to buy, we've rounded up the best Black Friday vacuum deals that you can purchase right now, which should give you the advantage over other shoppers. Hurry up, as stocks are probably selling quickly.
Best Black Friday vacuum deals An upright vacuum is still one of the most popular options if you want a cleaning device to pick up all kinds of dirt, debris, and pet hair. You're going to have to deal with a cord, but most people are probably used to them by now and it's a small price to pay for consistent power. Retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart are offering discounted prices for upright vacuums from different brands, so whether you're on a tight budget or you're willing to splurge on one with all the bells and whistles, you'll surely find a deal that catches your attention.
Smart Home With all the Black Friday deals going on at the moment, this is the perfect time to buy yourself a home improvement. We all hate having to vacuum so often so that's why a robot vacuum is such a tempting proposition. Right now, there are some fantastic Black Friday vacuum deals around so you can save big on the best way to clean your home with minimal effort. Keep reading and you'll see all the great deals we've found, including major brands like Roomba and Shark Black Friday deals, along with the best robot vacuums.
Best Shark robot vacuum Black Friday deals Shark is a respectable name in the robot vacuum world with one of its models featuring among our look at the best robot vacuum and mop combos. Alongside Shark is the Ninja brand which is a great indicator of the quality of all its products. Shark makes many different robot vacuums covering different price ranges and needs, so there's generally something for everyone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
