Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides What to know before you enable Alexa Guard By Michael Bizzaco and Erika Rawes Close While Amazon Alexa is best known for its ability to give you updates on the news or dish out commands to the rest of your smart home, Alexa also works as a basic security system. This is known as Alexa Guard, and it’s a great feature that comes bundled free with most Alexa devices.
What is Alexa Guard, and what can it do? What can’t Alexa Guard do? What about Alexa Guard Plus? Alexa Guard compatibility How do you set up Alexa Guard? When enabled, Alexa Guard provides tons of cool features, such as the ability to automatically turn your lights on and off while you’re away from home or alert you when a smoke detector is going off. But how exactly does Alexa Guard work? And how do you enable it on your Alexa devices? Here’s a closer look at everything you need to know.
What is Alexa Guard, and what can it do? Amazon Alexa Guard is a feature on Echo devices that acts as a pair of ears for your home when you’re not there. It can listen for sounds that indicate something dangerous might be going on in your home, and then alert you to tell you what it hears. Think of Alexa Guard as a tattletale that specifically listens out for breaking glass, smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide detectors. If the far-field microphones hear one of those danger sounds, Alexa will notify you by sending you a 10-second clip of the sound. You can choose which types of sounds you want to be notified about.
What is Amazon Alexa, and what can it do? How to find ghosts with Alexa (and other scary skills) Comparing Roomba models: What you need to know Alexa Guard can also work with your smart lighting to make it look like you’re home when you’re out of the house or when you go on vacation. Guard uses machine algorithms to determine the right on and off patterns to make it look like you’re sitting on the couch watching Netflix when you’re really out on the town.
What can’t Alexa Guard do? While Alexa Guard will help to protect your home in the event of an emergency, you should not use it as a substitute for an actual alarm system.
Alexa Guard can work in conjunction with your existing system (Ring, ADT, or Scout), but don’t expect it to work as harmoniously as a system like Nest where it can manage multiple home systems in response to a threat.
Overall, Alexa Guard requires a certain degree of evaluation and decisiveness on the part of the user. It is not a professional monitoring service, but rather a warning you receive from Alexa when it detects danger.
What about Alexa Guard Plus? Image used with permission by copyright holder Alexa Guard Plus is a paid version of the Alexa Guard feature that comes with its own unique benefits. For $5 a month (or $49 a year), Guard Plus unlocks access to Amazon’s Emergency Helpline. Say a fire breaks out while you’re cooking dinner. Instead of scrambling for your phone, you’ll be able to tell Alexa to call for help. This puts you in touch with an Emergency Hotline rep that can connect you with police, fire, and ambulatory services.
Guard Plus also adds additional Alexa device monitoring. Compatible hardware with Guard Plus enabled will listen for “activity” sounds in your home. When detected, your Echo device will emit a siren sound to ward off potential intruders. If your Alexa-enabled Ring, Blink, Arlo, or August outdoor cameras detect suspicious outdoor activity, Alexa Guard Plus will tell your indoor Echo speakers to begin barking like angry dogs. That’s no joke. Ring Protect Plus customers will also be happy to know that Alexa Guard Plus will be included in their Ring subscription for no additional charge.
Alexa Guard compatibility Image used with permission by copyright holder If you have the latest version of the Alexa App, the feature should be available to you as long as you have at least one compatible Echo device — an Echo, Echo Dot, Echo Plus, Echo Show, Echo Spot, or Echo Input.
Alexa Guard can arm your compatible system, as well as forward smart alerts to ADT when it detects a danger sound, like a smoke detector. ADT Pulse or Control customers can choose to have ADT take action on their behalf in response to alerts.
This compatibility also applies to those with the Ring security system. Through the Ring App, Ring Protect Plus customers can request that emergency responders check out their home, but the user has to initiate this request.
People who prefer more compact DIY security systems will be happy to know that Guard is also compatible with the Scout Alarm system.
 If you use the Always On+ plan for monitoring, Alexa will send an alert to Scout’s monitoring center just like a Scout device would on its own.
How do you set up Alexa Guard? It’s relatively simple to set up Alexa Guard, and the process only takes about three to five minutes, even if you decide to turn on all available features. Here’s how to get Alexa to “guard” your home: Step 1 : Open the Alexa app (update if necessary).
Step 2 : Look for the Menu button in the upper left corner — the three lines — and select it. Choose Settings at the bottom of the menu.
Step 3 : Scroll down to the section called Alexa Preferences and choose Guard.
 In the new introduction screen that pops up, choose Set Up Guard.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4 : You’ll now be given a series of options to enable for Guard. These include: Smoke and CO alarms: If you have these, Alexa can listen for beeping alerts and send you a text so you know it sounds like a smoke alarm is going off at home.
Glass breaking: You can also choose for Guard to listen for the sound of breaking glass (yes, Alexa really has been programmed to detect what different kinds of breaking glass sound like). If you’d like alerts about this, add it in.
Away lighting: If you have connected lights, Alexa will ask if you want to enable away lighting, which turns your lights on in a natural way so that it looks like people are home. If you don’t have any connected smart lights, you probably won’t see this option.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: The system will ask you first to confirm the installation. After confirmation, you’ll see the Guard home screen and details behind your current status. If you prefer, you can use this screen to navigate to the Settings menu. From here, you can add additional features like extra lights, location data, or supplementary security systems.
Step 6: Whenever you leave your home, say, “Alexa, I am leaving,” and it will turn on the Guard setting on your behalf. When you return, say, “ Alexa , I’m home,” and it will immediately switch Guard off for you.
Step 7: The Guard system will send you alerts and warnings if it detects any suspicious activities or sounds (footsteps, coughing, etc.). The system is designed to detect human noises instead of pets and household appliances, but it’s definitely not perfect. Every notification you receive gives you the option to hear a playback of the recorded noise.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If what you hear in a recording concerns you, you can Drop In. The Drop In feature lets you connect your phone directly to your Echo speaker so you can listen to any noises in your home in real-time. You can even start talking into the speaker to scare off any intruders. Check out our guide on how to enable Drop In and receive permissions for dropping in on your friends. Each Guard alert will let you choose if you’d like to Drop In on your Echo or not, so you have full control.
Editors' Recommendations The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 What to do if your Amazon Alexa app is not working Can you train a parrot to use Alexa, and should you? What is Alexa Intruder Alert? Amazon might be using Alexa to send you targeted ads Amazon Amazon Alexa Smart Home Amazon has always wanted to have Alexa become the end-all and be-all assistant. Thanks to a new update, it's one step closer. Alexa can now tell you if it sees a person or a package through one of your security cameras. Also, if you have an Echo Show or a Fire TV, Alexa can automatically pull up a live video feed of the subject.
Amazon recently allowed third-party companies to tap into this new feature by revealing a new API. As a result, companies such as Google, Ring, and Abode have already added person recognition to their video security doorbells. According to Amazon, all of Ring's video doorbells and cameras should be updated now, while Google's Nest Cam Indoor, Nest Cam Outdoor, Nest Cam Floodlight, and Nest Doorbell will receive the update soon. In addition, Abode's IOTA and Outdoor Camera will also receive the update.
Smart Home Amazon’s Echos make fantastic music devices, thanks to designs that often focus on 360-degree sound and placement that’s ideal for filling rooms with tunes, whether you like rocking out while cleaning house, holding a party, or creating ambiance at a business. If that sounds good to you, we’re helping out with the best ways to get music stations with the Alexa voice assistant and what station skills you should try.
Note that plenty of speakers and soundbars are compatible with Alexa beyond Echo devices, so these tricks should work with them as long as Alexa is built-in.
Already have a favorite streaming service? Smart Home Google’s Nest line of products (an evolution from the previous Google Home brand after Google purchased Nest) incorporates a variety of smart devices, all designed to work under the Home app and integrate easily with each other. If you’re a fan of Google or frequently use Google Assistant, this is a great smart home ecosystem to invest in, and thanks to tech like Matter, Nest is due to become even more compatible with other platforms in the future.
So, where should you begin in the Nest world? With our guide to all the Nest products, of course! Here are all available Nest models, what they do, and what you should know about them.
Speakers Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
