Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to change Alexa’s name or the name Alexa calls you By Michael Bizzaco and Erika Rawes Close Amazon Alexa is a top-of-the-line voice assistant with plenty of unique features. When using an Echo speaker or another Alexa-enabled device, you can dim the lights in your home, adjust the temperature, monitor smart locks and other home security devices, listen to music, ask common questions, play games, and more. You can also make use of Alexa Skills to easily follow your favorite sports team or learn how to mix a mean cocktail.
How to change Alexa’s wake word Change Alexa’s name with a verbal command How to get Alexa to call you a different name Difficulty Duration What You Need Amazon Echo Amazon app on your smartphone All-knowing and always listening, Alexa sometimes responds when we’re not asking for her assistance. This may happen if you or someone in your home is named Alexa or something close to it, or if your Alexa device is near a TV or music source that sounds the word out (or something close to it). Fortunately, there’s a way to change that. Here's how to change Alexa’s wake word, as well as what name Alexa calls you. Once you've wrapped up this quick tutorial, be sure to check out some other great tips and tricks for your Alexa device.
How to change Alexa’s wake word These instructions assume the Echo device currently uses the default “Alexa” wake word.
Step 1: Open the Amazon Alexa app.
Step 2: Tap the Devices tab at the bottom.
Which Amazon Echo should you buy? Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? Adding AI to Alexa is the brain transplant we’ve all been waiting for Step 3: At the top, scroll to select All Devices.
Step 4: Select your Echo device on the resulting list.
Step 5: Scroll down and select Wake Word.
Step 6: Change your wake word to either Amazon , Echo , or for Star Trek fans, Computer! The new name for Alexa will only work on this individual Echo device. To change Alexa’s name on any other Echo device, tap the back button, select any other Echo devices, and repeat the steps outlined above.
Change Alexa’s name with a verbal command These instructions assume the Echo device currently uses the default “Alexa” wake word.
Step 1: Say “Alexa, can you change your name?” or “ Alexa , can you change your wake word?” Step 2: Alexa will respond by saying, “I can help you change the wake word for this device. Should we do that now?” Respond with a “Yes.” Step 3: Alexa will respond by saying, “OK, you can choose from Amazon, Computer, or Echo. Which of these do you like?” Speak the name you wish to use.
Step 4: Alexa will respond by saying, “OK, you can call me [name] on this device in a few seconds.” As indicated, you can use the new wake word after a few seconds. If you chose “Computer,” now is a good time to use your best Picard or Kirk voice! How to get Alexa to call you a different name One of Alexa’s customizations includes changing the name she calls you, whether it’s your real name, a nickname, or something off-the-wall that will make you laugh when you hear it. An Alexa user named Robert, for example, can choose to be called Robert, Rob, or Bobby. If you want to have a little fun with it, go for a title like Captain or a pet name like Darling. Follow these steps to change the name Alexa will call you.
Step 1: Open the Amazon Alexa app.
Step 2: Hit the Communicate section at the bottom of the screen.
Step 3: Tap the icon of the tiny person that represents your profile in the upper-right-hand corner of the screen.
Step 4: On the next window, go underneath your name and hit My Communication Settings.
Step 5: Go to the upper-right-hand corner and hit Edit.
Step 6: Switch your first name based on your preference.
Step 7: Go to the upper-right corner to tap Save to finish.
Step 8: Make sure your name change works by saying, “Alexa, what’s my name?" Then, she’ll respond, “I’m talking to [your new name]. This is [account owner]’s account.” Before you choose a completely silly name, remember that changing the name setting means that nickname will also show up in other Alexa-enabled features. For example, if your name changes from Calvin to Fancy Guy, Alexa will refer to you as Fancy Guy when sending messages to Echo users as well, so that will be the name that pops up for them. Request that Alexa verify your name, and she will respond, “I’m talking to Fancy Guy. This account is Calvin’s.” In addition to this name showing up on all of Alexa’s features, it will also be displayed on your public profile, so you want to be careful about what you choose to be called.
Editors' Recommendations The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 You’ll be shocked how cheap this Roomba is ahead of Black Friday Here’s how to throw a killer Halloween party with your smart home The Amazon Echo Hub is almost the whole-home hub I’ve always wanted I tried the Amazon Echo Show 8, a smart display that transforms when you get close How-To Amazon Amazon Alexa How-To Guides Smart Home We’re conditioned to associate a red ring on our devices with bad news. If you suddenly see one on an Alexa device like an Echo, it’s easy to start worrying. It’s even worse when you try to use Alexa, but find that the voice assistant isn’t responding as it should.
Smart Home Nearly a year after ChatGPT introduced the world to the uncannily human possibilities of generative AI, Amazon has unveiled new Alexa features powered by large language models (LLM). At the annual Amazon Devices Event hosted at its new Arlington, Virginia, headquarters, the company announced some major Alexa improvements that will attempt to make replies much more conversational and lifelike, with less waiting time between your interactions and more meaningful replies.
A new feature called Let's Chat mimics the ChatGPT experience by allowing you to have a fluid conversation with Alexa, asking questions about everything from the voice assistant's football team allegiance to recipes. You can even ask it to write emails for you. In the demo with Dave Limp, outgoing senior vice president of devices and services, Alexa sometimes stalled and needed a second prompt to answer questions, suggesting the feature may still need some polish.
Smart Home If you want to upgrade your house into a smart-home, the first step is getting a hub that all your fancy new devices can connect to. Amazon's Echo devices are perfect for that. There are a lot of different options in the Echo line, such as smart speakers and smart displays. Choosing which model is best for you will come down to your available space and what you intend to use the device for. We've broken down every model and generation of the Echo that is currently on sale, so read on to find out which one is best for you.
Echo Pop — $25, was $40 The Echo Pop is definitely what you could call a "cute snack of an Echo device." Its small, semi-sphere body, low price, and four cute colors lend it to being in just about any home. Our Echo Pop review called it the perfect price for getting into Alexa. Furthermore it is great for small spaces and your bedroom will love the bonus Eero mesh inside. Oh, and if you're worried about privacy in the bedroom (you should be) there is an easy mic off button on the top. You'll also know when Alexa is listening because, as pictured above, the light bar at the top will turn blue once you've engaged Alexa. At 3.9 x 3.3 x 3.6 inches, it's the perfect gadget to spruce up your bedroom's smart gadget environment.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
