Microsoft Has ‘Utmost Confidence’ in OpenAI Following Sam Altman Ouster Save 25% and Read now Exclusive ai Before OpenAI Ousted Altman, Employees Disagreed Over AI ‘Safety’ and OpenAI’s ouster of CEO Sam Altman on Friday followed internal arguments among employees about whether the company was developing artificial intelligence safely enough, according to people with knowledge of the situation. Such disagreements were high on the minds of some employees during an impromptu all-hands meeting following the firing....
OpenAI’s ouster of CEO Sam Altman on Friday followed internal arguments among employees...
startups ai Interim OpenAI CEO: Microsoft Has ‘Utmost Confidence’ in Startup Following Altman Departure and OpenAI Interim CEO Mira Murati on Friday told staff in a companywide meeting that its relationship with Microsoft—its biggest outside source of capital and computing power—was stable following the sudden firing of CEO Sam Altman, according to people with knowledge of the meeting. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and CTO Kevin Scott...
OpenAI Interim CEO Mira Murati on Friday told staff in a companywide meeting that its...
startups Finance ‘Figma Took Their Lunch Money’: How $2 Billion Design Startup InVision Fell Apart The founder and CEO of InVision saw the siege coming. His successful user interface design startup was growing fast, having built a product that some expected to put Adobe, the juggernaut of the design industry, back on its heels. But Adobe was working on a next-generation app of its own, and another upstart, Figma, was gaining momentum with...
The founder and CEO of InVision saw the siege coming. His successful user interface design...
ai google Google Delays Release of Gemini AI That Aims to Compete With OpenAI Google’s company-defining effort to catch up to ChatGPT creator OpenAI is turning out to be harder than expected. Google representatives earlier this year told some cloud customers and business partners they would get access to the company’s new conversational AI, a large language model known as Gemini, by November. But the company...
Google’s company-defining effort to catch up to ChatGPT creator OpenAI is turning out to be...
Two Startups Reject Web Summit Money in Fallout From Ex-CEO’s Remarks Web Summit attempted to put a turbulent chapter behind it this week, drawing more than 70,000 attendees to the annual tech conference in Lisbon. But the fallout from its former CEO's remarks isn’t over. Two Israeli startups, Lasso Security and Ask-AI, are rejecting the investments of the tech conference’s venture arm after former...
Web Summit attempted to put a turbulent chapter behind it this week, drawing more than 70,000...
crypto Finance JPMorgan’s Blockchain Business Onyx Searches for Its Identity—and Revenue In early 2022, JPMorgan Chase proudly claimed it was the first bank to enter the metaverse. Inside a crypto-focused virtual world called Decentraland, users could visit the swanky Onyx lounge, named after the bank’s blockchain operations, to mingle with fellow crypto enthusiasts and watch videos of the bank’s experts discussing...
In early 2022, JPMorgan Chase proudly claimed it was the first bank to enter the metaverse. ...
venture capital Coatue Raises $1.4 Billion Fund, Cuts Fees as Venture Firms Navigate Frigid Market and To entice their investors off the sidelines, venture capital firms are turning to a tactic used during the dot-com bust: discounts. Coatue Management recently raised $1.4 billion for a companion fund to its $7.7 billion VC growth fund, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter. Coatue is not charging existing investors in the...
To entice their investors off the sidelines, venture capital firms are turning to a tactic used...
and e-commerce amazon Before TikTok Turned Into a Rival, Amazon Saw a Potential Partner and Late last year, Amazon executives met with their counterparts at TikTok parent ByteDance to propose a novel idea: creating a new advertising format that would let customers buy items from Amazon ads on TikTok without leaving the app, according to a person with direct knowledge of the discussions. A partnership could have been a breakthrough for...
Late last year, Amazon executives met with their counterparts at TikTok parent ByteDance to...
e-commerce Shein’s Revenue Surged More Than 40%, Likely Surpassing Zara Shein’s revenue surged more than 40% to $24 billion between January and September from a year earlier, people familiar with its finances said, growth that highlights the mounting threat for Amazon as the China-founded retailer looks to expand beyond fast fashion by ramping up sales of other goods like appliances and electronics. Shein,...
Shein’s revenue surged more than 40% to $24 billion between January and September from a...
To Revive Snap, Evan Spiegel Promotes Hardcore Work Culture Snap co-founder and CEO Evan Spiegel has lately taken to walking around his company’s Santa Monica, Calif., headquarters in the evenings, stopping at employees’ desks and asking what they’re working on. He has noticed, however, that he always spots the same handful of people working late in the office, he told employees at a...
Snap co-founder and CEO Evan Spiegel has lately taken to walking around his company’s Santa...
facebook asia ByteDance Revenue Surges to $29 Billion in Second Quarter, Closing in on Meta and ByteDance is closing the revenue gap with Facebook owner Meta Platforms as it generates more sales from advertising and e-commerce. The Chinese owner of TikTok saw revenue surge more than 40% to $29 billion in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to people with knowledge of the figures. That’s a far higher growth rate than...
ByteDance is closing the revenue gap with Facebook owner Meta Platforms as it generates more...
and amazon e-commerce Amazon Reaches Deal to Run Shopping Ads on Snap and Amazon has reached a deal with Snap that will let people buy Amazon products directly from ads on the Snapchat app, an Amazon spokesperson confirmed. The previously unreported arrangement closely resembles an ad partnership announced last week between Amazon and Meta Platforms, which lets people buy products through Amazon ads on Instagram and...
Amazon has reached a deal with Snap that will let people buy Amazon products directly from ads on...
startups Finance Brex’s Quarterly Revenue Growth Slows to 1%, Following Post-SVB Growth Spurt Almost no startup benefited more from the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank than Brex, which saw a surge in deposits from young companies who use its credit card and cash management products. But that growth spurt has petered out in recent months, internal data reveal, putting more pressure on the company to ramp up its expense software...
Almost no startup benefited more from the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank than Brex, which saw a...
ai google OpenAI’s New Weapon in Talent War With Google: $10 Million Pay Packages for Researchers The recruiting fight between OpenAI and Google is growing fiercer. As OpenAI proceeds with an employee share sale that would nearly triple the startup’s valuation to more than $80 billion, its recruiters are courting top artificial intelligence employees at Google with millions of dollars and a message: Join us now to lock in a stock...
The recruiting fight between OpenAI and Google is growing fiercer. As OpenAI proceeds with an...
venture capital startups Deel Hits $400 million in Annual Recurring Revenue, as Rippling Rivalry Grows Deel, a human resources startup last valued at $12 billion, has hit $400 million in annual recurring revenue, a senior sales director at the startup said last month, up from a pace of $295 million in January. Deel’s growth shows how some enterprise software startups have been able to thrive during a pullback in business software spending....
Deel, a human resources startup last valued at $12 billion, has hit $400 million in annual...
amazon Why Amazon’s Futuristic Fashion Stores Flopped When Amazon CEO Andy Jassy made a surprise visit to one of his company’s Style clothing stores in Glendale, Calif., this past August, he posed for selfies with workers while holding a pair of shopping bags. It seems he wasn’t impressed. Three months later, Amazon announced that the store, along with its other Style location in Ohio,...
When Amazon CEO Andy Jassy made a surprise visit to one of his company’s Style clothing...
Snap Lays Off Product Managers as Spiegel Revamps Workforce Snap has laid off nearly 20 product managers, the latest shakeup at the social app after several top departures over the last three months. Separately, Snap’s longtime vice president of engineering, Nima Khajehnouri, told employees earlier this week that he was leaving. His last day at the company will be Dec. 1, a Snap...
Snap has laid off nearly 20 product managers, the latest shakeup at the social app after...
startups Finance Juliet de Baubigny Joins BDT & MSD Partners as Part of Its Tech Push Juliet de Baubigny is ready for what she calls “act three” of her career. After more than 20 years spent developing deep ties with founders across Silicon Valley and Europe, first at Kleiner Perkins and then as a co-founder of Bond Capital, the venture capital veteran is joining BDT &amp; MSD Partners to ramp up its presence in the...
Juliet de Baubigny is ready for what she calls “act three” of her career. After more...
startups Finance Banks Ran Their Safest IPO Playbooks This Year. Investors Say It Backfired.
It seemed like a surefire way to juice investor demand in a tough market: Instacart lined up a group of existing and new investors, ranging from Sequoia Capital to Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, to buy up to $400 million, or 60% of the stock it planned to sell in its September initial public offering. In the days leading up to the IPO,...
It seemed like a surefire way to juice investor demand in a tough market: Instacart lined up a...
startups Airbnb-Backed Real Estate Startup Zeus Living Is Shutting Down Zeus Living, a property management startup that raised $150 million from tech investors, is “winding down operations,” the firm told landlords this week. The shutdown is the latest blow to a real estate tech sector struggling because of rising interest rates. Zeus leased homes and apartments, furnished them and then sublet them to...
Zeus Living, a property management startup that raised $150 million from tech investors, is...
1 2 3 4 5 … Next › Last » Get Started © 2013-2023 The Information. All Rights Reserved.
Join now to read full stories
