Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to connect Matter devices to Amazon Alexa By Jon Bitner Close Amazon Alexa supports a wide range of products, from video doorbells and robot vacuums to security cameras and smart thermostats.
 Most of the smart home gear you purchase will come with built-in support for the Alexa ecosystem. But many Amazon Echo devices now support Matter – letting you sync other Matter-enabled devices even if they don’t natively support Alexa.
How to connect Matter devices to Alexa What Matter devices work with Alexa? Difficulty Duration What You Need Alexa device (with Matter support) Alexa app Smart home device (with Matter support) Connecting Matter devices to Alexa is a straightforward process, although there are a few differences compared to connecting traditional devices with Alexa support. Here’s a closer look at how to connect Matter devices to Alexa.
Amazon How to connect Matter devices to Alexa The first step in connecting Matter devices to Alexa is ensuring your Alexa app is running the latest firmware. Check to make sure you don’t have any updates pending – otherwise, Matter support may not yet be enabled. You’ll also want to verify that your Amazon device supports Matter (which includes a long list of Echo products).
With those two steps out of the way, here’s how to connect Matter products to Alexa.
Step 1: Open the Alexa app and select the Devices menu.
Step 2: Select the + icon, then select Add a Device.
Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more Sponsored Black Friday Deal: Grab Eureka NEW400 wet-dry vac for cleaning all spills [Sponsored] Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Step 3: Select Other , then select Matter.
Step 4: The app will ask you to confirm your selection. Press Yes.
Step 5: You’ll now be able to scan the QR code that came with your Matter product. Alternatively, you can enter your product’s Matter code.
Step 6: After scanning the QR code, your Matter device should now be synced with Alexa. The exact functionality offered by Alexa will vary by product, but you’ll at least be able to see the device listed on your network alongside all your other smart home gadgets.
What Matter devices work with Alexa? Matter support is expected to grow rapidly throughout 2023, but Alexa already supports several groups of products. This includes Wi-Fi light bulbs, plugs, and switches. Also, note that Amazon’s Frustration-Free Setup process is available for several devices – making it even easier to get your smart home up and running. For more details on how Amazon plans to expand Matter support in the months ahead, be sure to check out its official website.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more Amazon Amazon Alexa How-To Guides Internet of Things (IoT) Smart Home Arlo has supported Apple HomeKit since 2019, allowing you to get it synced with popular devices such as HomePod and HomePod mini. The process is fairly standard but if you're new to the world of smart home platforms, there are a few steps that might give you trouble.
Here's a look at how to connect Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit, along with which cameras support the feature.
Smart Home Amazon Astro -- the adorable household robot from Amazon that's yet to see a public release -- is gaining a new family member today with the launch of Astro for Business. A pilot program for the homebot began last year, and it looks like the unique gadget is ready to go live following its success.
Astro for Business differs from the standard Amazon Astro in some big ways. For one, it's specifically designed to work as a smart security solution for small and medium-sized businesses. That means it's possible to do away with complex security systems and instead opt for this roving robot. The quirky product combines AI software with hardware such as a periscope camera to help prevent break-ins and quickly alert you if something goes awry.
Smart Home With hundreds of incredible products available, it can be intimidating to piece together a smart home. From smart displays and thermostats to smart light bulbs and video doorbells, not only are there tons of categories to browse, but each category is filled with highly reviewed products that can be difficult to distinguish from one another. If you’re in the market for a new smart home gadget or are just starting your smart home journey, there are tons of factors to consider.
If you need help navigating all the products, here’s a look at the best smart home devices of 2023 across a wide variety of categories. It’s hard to go wrong with products from big names like Ring, Arlo, Amazon, and Google, but if you need a bit more guidance, here are some of our top picks.
Voice assistant Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
