Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Smart Home Guides How to Drop In on an Echo, Echo Show, or Echo Dot By Erika Rawes and John Velasco Close If you own an Echo device, such as the Echo Show or Echo Dot, you'll have access to a nifty feature known as Drop-In. This allows you to start a conversation with Alexa contacts or use the smart home gadget as an impromptu intercom.
Download the app Enable Drop In on devices Enable Drop In on your profile Enable contact’s Drop In and ask them to do the same Begin calling How to disable Drop In Difficulty Duration What You Need Amazon Echo devices (2 minimum) Alexa app for iPhone or Android Here’s what you need to know about the useful Drop In feature – along with how to disable it if you’re looking for some privacy.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Download the app Step 1: First, ensure you have the Alexa app downloaded on your Android or iOS device (and that it is the latest version). You will need two different Echo devices for Drop In to work: With the app, you can drop in on other Echo devices, but you can’t receive a Drop In call via the app.
Step 2: Once you’ve downloaded and launched the app, you should be prompted to set up Alexa Calling and Messaging.
 If you aren’t, tap the speech bubble at the bottom of the screen to sign up and fill out your contact information.
Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more Sponsored Black Friday Deal: Grab Eureka NEW400 wet-dry vac for cleaning all spills [Sponsored] Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Enable Drop In on devices The Drop In feature might be turned off in the app, so you may have to opt in to use it.
In the Echo device settings, look for the section that says Communications , and select it. The Communications section will have a Drop In section. Make sure that Drop In is turned on. You can select it and choose between On, Off, and Only my household.
Step 1: Head to the icon at the bottom of the Alexa app that says Devices.
Step 2: In the devices menu, choose the device on which you want to enable the Drop In feature.
Step 3: With Drop In enabled on all your Echo devices, you should be able to initiate household drop-ins just by saying, “Alexa, drop in on,” and then saying the specific name of the Echo device. If this is all you want to do, then you’re good to go.
However, you can also enable drop-ins outside your house if you want to, and permitted contacts will be able to drop in on your Echo.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Enable Drop In on your profile To make Drop In calls via the Alexa app and have others do the same, you’ll need to enable Drop In on your profile. Fortunately, this is very easy to do.
Step 1: Select the Communicate bubble at the bottom of the Alexa app, and then select the Drop In icon at the top. A message will pop up on how to enable Drop In by going to My Profile.
Step 2: Once there, make sure the Drop In section is enabled, and if it isn’t, select it to enable it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Enable contact’s Drop In and ask them to do the same Now, it’s time to enable Drop In for other contacts you may have.
Step 1: Select the Communicate icon again, choose the person icon in the upper-right corner to go to your contacts, and choose the contacts you want to talk to. You will notice they have Alexa Calling & Messaging under their name if they have an Echo device or Alexa account, signifying you can enable Drop In for them.
Step 2: Under Permissions , make sure the Allow Drop In option is chosen for the contacts you want to have Drop In enabled for on your device.
However, it’s important to call up your contact and have them do the same for your contact info unless you only want the Drop In option to be a one-way communication tool. If you want to set up drop-ins for your kids or other family members instead of just devices, you can create contacts for them here, and enable those drop-ins as well, so you can call them by name when giving commands.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Begin calling After the setup is complete, you’re ready to try out a call. You activate the feature by speaking the word you’ve chosen to enable its capabilities, then you say, “drop in on [person’s name],” and your device should ring that person. You can also go directly to the Contact page and select the person you want to call.
When someone drops in on you, the light ring on your Echo will pulse green, a tone will sound, and they will be connected automatically, allowing them to hear anything that is within range of your device. If you and your contact are using devices equipped with a screen, the video will appear somewhat distorted for several seconds, so you have an opportunity to get ready. There are verbal and tactile options to leave a video while remaining on the call, namely by saying “Video off” or pressing the onscreen Video Off button.
How to disable Drop In While Drop In is great for chatting with friends or making announcements throughout your home, you might not like the idea of folks jumping into your Echo device unannounced. If you’re looking to turn off Drop In, here’s what you'll need to do.
Step 1: In the Alexa app, open the Devices menu.
Step 2: Head to the Echo & Alexa menu.
Step 3: Find the device you’d like to disable Drop In.
Step 4: Click Communications.
Step 5: Finally, select Drop In.
 From here, you’ll have the option to disable the service.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more How-To Mobile Amazon Amazon Alexa How-To Guides Smart Home Arlo has supported Apple HomeKit since 2019, allowing you to get it synced with popular devices such as HomePod and HomePod mini. The process is fairly standard but if you're new to the world of smart home platforms, there are a few steps that might give you trouble.
Here's a look at how to connect Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit, along with which cameras support the feature.
Smart Home Amazon Astro -- the adorable household robot from Amazon that's yet to see a public release -- is gaining a new family member today with the launch of Astro for Business. A pilot program for the homebot began last year, and it looks like the unique gadget is ready to go live following its success.
Astro for Business differs from the standard Amazon Astro in some big ways. For one, it's specifically designed to work as a smart security solution for small and medium-sized businesses. That means it's possible to do away with complex security systems and instead opt for this roving robot. The quirky product combines AI software with hardware such as a periscope camera to help prevent break-ins and quickly alert you if something goes awry.
Smart Home With hundreds of incredible products available, it can be intimidating to piece together a smart home. From smart displays and thermostats to smart light bulbs and video doorbells, not only are there tons of categories to browse, but each category is filled with highly reviewed products that can be difficult to distinguish from one another. If you’re in the market for a new smart home gadget or are just starting your smart home journey, there are tons of factors to consider.
If you need help navigating all the products, here’s a look at the best smart home devices of 2023 across a wide variety of categories. It’s hard to go wrong with products from big names like Ring, Arlo, Amazon, and Google, but if you need a bit more guidance, here are some of our top picks.
Voice assistant Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
