Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to fix an Amazon Smart Thermostat that’s unresponsive or not working as expected By Jon Bitner Close Thanks to its budget-friendly price and impressive list of features, the Amazon Smart Thermostat has quickly become one of the most popular smart thermostats on the market. But despite its impressive reviews and stellar performance, the smart home gadget isn’t without its issues. If you’ve found that your Amazon Smart Thermostat is unresponsive or not working as expected, you’re not alone – but thankfully, most of these are easy to resolve.
How to restart and partially reset the Amazon Smart Thermostat Amazon Smart Thermostat unresponsive troubleshooting Difficulty Duration What You Need Amazon Smart Thermostat Alexa app Screwdriver (optional) Flashlight (optional) Here's what you need to know about an unresponsive Amazon Smart Thermostat and all the ways to fix it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to restart and partially reset the Amazon Smart Thermostat Before attempting any other troubleshooting methods, you’ll first want to try and restart your unresponsive Amazon Smart Thermostat. To do this, simply remove the faceplate from the wall, wait several seconds, then place it back on the wall. If you’re lucky, this will get your thermostat working like new. If that doesn’t work, try performing a partial reset by following these steps: Step 1: Press the Up Temperature and Mode keys simultaneously for 10 seconds.
Step 2: Wait for the rEs notification to appear on the smart thermostat display.
Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models The best smart home devices for 2023 Step 3: Hold the Mode button for five more seconds.
Step 4: This will reset the device and should fix any lingering issues.
Amazon Amazon Smart Thermostat unresponsive troubleshooting If restarting and partially resetting your Amazon Smart Thermostat didn’t work, there are a few other things you can try. These are largely dependent on what exactly is wrong with your thermostat and only work for very specific issues.
A common issue with the Amazon Smart Thermostat is that the display will go blank. This can happen when the unit is left idle and inactive, and simply touching the screen should turn it back on. If it doesn’t, you’ll need to dive into your Alexa app, locate the Smart Thermostat, and increase your display brightness.
Another common issue that will cause your Amazon Smart Thermostat to behave erratically is if it’s installed in an awkward location. Amazon recommends installing it far away from air vents, sunlight, or other places that produce heat or cold air – such as a portable heater, air purifier, or near the kitchen. Consider moving your thermostat's location if you notice temperature readings that wildly fluctuate throughout the day.
The last way to fix an unresponsive Amazon Smart Thermostat is to double-check your wiring. This is particularly important if you had to install the C-wire adapter, as that requires additional wiring that may be best handled by a professional.
If none of these suggestions work, it might be time to contact an HVAC service to inspect your furnace and air conditioner. Most of the time a simple reset is all it takes to fix an unresponsive Amazon Smart Thermostat, but sometimes your issues might be caused by a more serious problem.
Editors' Recommendations Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Amazon Astro gets a day job with Astro for Business Amazon Echo Show 8 is back down to its cheapest-ever price Echo Pop vs. HomePod mini: which is the best smart speaker? Amazon Amazon Alexa How-To Guides Smart Home One of the best robot vacuum deals comes courtesy of Amazon today. You can currently buy the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum for $159 saving you $116 off the regular price of $275. It has all the key features you could need and is liable to be very popular at this price. Let's take a quick look at what it offers before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum Makers of some of the best robot vacuums, iRobot knows what you need from a robot vacuum. With the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum, you get a three stage cleaning system with dual multi-surface brushes that grab dirt from your carpets and hard floors efficiently. Alongside that is an edge-sweeping brush that handles corners and edges just as well as the main part of your floor.
Smart Home The best smart locks of 2023 come from popular brands like Yale, Wyze, August, and Schlage, and they offer tons of cool features you won’t find on traditional deadbolts. From the ability to check the status of your lock remotely to being able to set up temporary profiles for guests, there’s a reason these smart home gadgets continue to grow in popularity.
Picking the right smart lock for your needs, however, is no small task. Not all smart locks are worthy of your time and money, and installing a bad smart lock could cause you plenty of headaches. Thankfully, there’s a product for every purpose. Whether you’re setting up a rental property, need something robust for a large family, or want to do away with your keys entirely, there’s bound to be a smart lock with your name on it.
Smart Home Matter launched around a year ago, and its newly released 1.2 update is bringing tons of improvements to the interoperability standard. The biggest improvement is expanded access, with Matter now supported by nine more different types of devices, including fridges, dishwashers, laundry machines, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and other common smart home gadgets.
While Matter has long been praised for its ability to connect products designed for different ecosystems (allowing you to use HomeKit items with Amazon Alexa, for example), it was held back by its limited rollout. When it first launched, only a handful of categories were supported -- such as smart bulbs, smart plugs, and smart sensors.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
