Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to use Alexa Together By Michael Bizzaco Close Alexa Together is a unique, premium program that’s available to anyone with an Echo device. Developed as a way to support loved ones who live in different households, the service is an affordable way to provide remote care for older family members. Alexa Together is a surprisingly versatile platform — and since it’s built on the standard Echo operating system, it’s remarkably easy to use.
How much does Alexa Together cost? What equipment do you need? How do you set up Alexa Together? What are some Alexa Together features? Available through the Alexa app and put into action using just a single Echo device , Alexa Together provides real-time activity monitoring and alerts to caregivers, along with a number of Remote Assist functions, like the ability to create reminders and set up streaming services for loved ones.
There’s plenty that Alexa Together can do, and we’ve put together this article to help you understand the basics of the platform, how to set up and activate the service, and how to use some of Alexa Together’s go-to features.
The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Best robot mops of 2023 The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 How much does Alexa Together cost? After the 30-day free trial of Alexa Together , subscribers can sign up for either $20 per month or a yearly membership for $200. Amazon also offers a bundle that gives you an Echo Show 8 and a free trial of Alexa Together for $130.
What equipment do you need? John Velasco / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Outside of a reliable Wi-Fi connection for the person receiving remote care, the only other gear they’ll need is the Alexa app and one Echo device — preferably an Echo Show , so caregivers and Circle of Support contacts can use features like Drop In to remotely check in on loved ones through a video call. For best results, though, it’s ideal to have a range of Echo devices scattered throughout the client’s home — that way, your loved one can easily interact with Alexa without having to navigate to a specific part of their home.
Ideally, caregivers will also have an Alexa device like the Echo Show for Drop In purposes, but the only thing they actually need is access to the Alexa app.
How do you set up Alexa Together? Image used with permission by copyright holder In order to use Alexa Together, both the loved one and caregiver will need to create and link two separate Amazon.com accounts to the same Alexa Together subscription. If your loved one isn’t able to create an account themselves, you can always make one on their behalf. The client will also require a single Echo device to use the plan, which you can also set up and activate if your loved one doesn’t have the ability to do so.
Simply purchase whatever device you’d like them to have and have it shipped to your address for setup, and be sure to choose the Gift option during checkout to make sure the Echo hardware isn’t automatically linked to your own Amazon account.
Once you’ve received your loved one’s Echo device, the setup process is nearly identical to activating a non-Alexa Together Echo product , but with two exceptions: you’ll be logging into the device using your loved one’s Amazon account, and you’ll be adding your loved one’s Wi-Fi info to the Echo product without actually connecting to it.
To do so, after the initial setup, go to Settings and select Network > Add a network , then enter your loved one’s network info and select Save.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Once your loved one has received their Echo device, the only thing left to do is to activate the Alexa Together plan. To start the process, head to the Alexa Together page.
 Select the Start 30-day free trial button, after which you’ll be prompted to enter payment info for the plan. After this, choose Activate Alexa Together.
On the next screen, you’ll need to indicate whether you’re the caregiver or the person receiving support. Assuming you’re the caregiver, you’ll then be prompted to enter your loved one’s name and Amazon email address to send them an Alexa Together invite. They’ll then need to open that email on their end, where they’ll be asked to confirm some basic info and provide an address for Urgent Response personnel (more on that later).
What are some Alexa Together features? Now that we’ve gone through the basics of Alexa Together in terms of cost, equipment, and overall setup, let’s take a look at some of the platform’s most useful features and how you and your loved ones can use them.
Activity feed and customizable alerts Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the biggest peace-of-mind capabilities of the Alexa Together suite is the ability to simply know that your loved ones are up and about. This confirmation is achieved through a live Activity Monitor dashboard that is designed to grant privacy and independence to the individual receiving care but also to give an indication to the caregiver that daily life is carrying on as normal.
Let’s say your older parent typically wakes and starts their day at around 8 a.m. each morning. If your loved one remembers to say “ Alexa , good morning” to their Echo Show each morning, Alexa will add this Echo interaction to your shared Alexa Together activity feed. And if they could use a friendly reminder to say “good morning” to Alexa , you can easily set one up for them.
To do so, head to the Alexa Together dashboard in the Alexa app and select Tips > Learn more > Create a reminder.
 You can also create reminders on the Remote Assist page (more on this below) by choosing Reminder > Add reminder.
 From here, you’ll be able to customize what time the reminder takes place, on what date, and how frequently it should recur.
Now, let’s say there’s no reported activity with Alexa past the agreed-upon time of 8 a.m. In this event, Alexa Together will issue an alert to the caregiver’s Alexa app, letting them know their loved one hasn’t used their Echo device yet, along with the option to communicate using Drop In or a regular call.
The activity dashboard will log all kinds of Alexa and third-party smart device interactions , such as the launching of a music streaming service, motion detected by an in-home camera or motion sensor, and even the activation of contact sensors to let you know that your loved one opened the medicine cabinet to take their daily pills. And while all of these reporting parameters can be customized to only issue activity notifications during certain time frames, Alexa Together will only deliver broad alerts to the caregiver. For instance, if your loved one asks Alexa to play a certain song using Spotify, Alexa Together will log this activity as Entertainment , with no reporting as to what song was actually played.
Caregivers will also have the ability to view a full day’s worth of activity notifications, along with pings from previous days, by selecting View all activity.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Remote Assist capabilities Under the Remote Assist dashboard, caregivers will have access to a range of Alexa Together features that will seamlessly integrate with the Alexa ecosystem of their loved ones.
We’ve already covered the handy Reminders feature for creating and customizing one-off, infrequent, and daily reminders for Alexa to ping your loved one’s Echo hardware with. The Contacts tab lets the caregiver add friends and family members to Alexa Together’s contact log and Circle of Support. Echo Device Settings will allow you to customize various elements of your loved one’s Alexa Together-enabled Echo gear, while Voice Responses will allow you to adjust exactly how Alexa can be heard and interacted with by your loved one.
Shopping List will allow you to create, add, and remove items from a shared shopping list, much like Alexa ’s regular shopping list ability, and Music & Podcasts will allow you to set up and manage different streaming services that your loved one can access with their Echo device.
Circle of Support While the main Alexa Together subscription is shared between one client and one caregiver, the latter will be able to add additional friends and family to a list of emergency contacts, billed as the Circle of Support. This will allow Alexa Together to issue activity notifications and alerts to a range of contacts besides the main caregiver, along with Call and Drop In capabilities (when and where applicable) for getting in touch with your loved one in the event of an emergency.
At this time, you can add up to 10 Circle of Support contacts to an Alexa Together plan.
Around-the-clock emergency services and fall detection As part of the Alexa Together subscription, your loved ones will have access to 24/7 emergency dispatchers. The platform’s on-call Urgent Response unit can be easily reached by your loved one with just a simple “ Alexa , call for help” command, which will automatically ping the caregiver and Circle of Support contacts with a notification that indicates the Urgent Response team was called upon.
Additionally, you can link a number of third-party fall-detection products to your Alexa Together system, including devices from companies like Vayyar , SkyAngelCare , and Altumview.
 In the event that a fall is actually detected, you’ll be instantly notified, and your loved one will be able to call for the Urgent Response team and Circle of Support contacts.
Editors' Recommendations Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more How to add Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit The best smart home devices for 2023 The best video doorbells for 2023 Amazon Echo Show 8 is back down to its cheapest-ever price Amazon Amazon Alexa How-To Guides Smart Home The refreshed Apple HomePod is one of the best smart speakers on the market. It offers booming sound, a great design, and access to the Siri voice assistant. It also costs quite a bit of cash -- making it one of the most expensive smart speakers. On the other side of the pricing spectrum is the Echo Pop, which is remarkably cheap and gives you access to the Alexa voice assistant.
But is the HomePod (Gen 2) worth the added cost? Or are you better off opting for the affordable Echo Pop? Here's a closer look at the two smart speakers to help you figure out which is best for your needs.
Pricing and design Smart Home Smart displays sit at the very center of most smart homes. With the ability to sync with other gadgets to issue commands, give you daily updates, or serve as a second screen to binge your favorite shows, smart displays are remarkably versatile devices.
The smart display market is more saturated today than ever before, with products from Amazon, Google, Facebook, and more vying for your attention. Google has even revealed that the upcoming Pixel Tablet will double as a smart display, and Apple might be throwing its hat into the ring sooner than expected.
Smart Home The Echo Pop and HomePod mini are radically different products. Both are smart speakers -- allowing you to listen to music or chat with a voice assistant -- but that's about where the similarities end. Echo Pop is designed as an affordable, entry-level device while the HomePod mini clocks in at a hefty $100.
But is Apple's HomePod mini worth the added expense? Or should shoppers stick with the cheaper Echo Pop? Here's a look at the advantages of both smart speakers to help you decide.
Pricing and design Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
