Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This Roborock robot vacuum and mop is 43% off thanks to Prime Day By Noah McGraw Close Roborock Prime Day deals present a great opportunity to grab smart home devices that are usually just out of your price range; for instance, a quality robot vacuum. Right now the Roborock Q7 Max+ robot vacuum is down to $500 after a $370 discount. That brings this robot vacuum down from the luxury price range into the good investment price range. Grab it today, because Prime Big Deal Days ends tonight.
Why you should buy the Roborock Q7 Max+ robot vacuum The Roborock Q7 Max+ is an upscale robot vacuum and mop that competes with the best that Roomba has to offer. It comes with a charging station that also functions as a trash can, so the Roborock can return there and empty its dustbin before returning to finish the rest of its clean. That means you only have to empty the dustbin in the hub maybe once a week instead of the robot itself every day.
The vacuum itself is powerful. If you’re worried that a robot vacuum can’t pick up the same dust and debris that a handheld vacuum can, put your fears to rest. The Roborock Q7 Max+ has a suction power of 4200Pa, enough to pick up pet hair and crumbs from carpets and crevices. The Q7 Max+ has a mop in it too, and it can vacuum and mop your floors at the same time, leaving a clean and relatively dry surface behind.
Another important factor in a robot vacuum is the smart technology inside it. The Q7+ has LiDAR navigation, which helps it get as much surface area as possible without getting stuck under tables or in corners. The vacuum maps your house on its first pass, memorizing the best route for future cleans. You can see which areas of your home it’s cleaned on the app, and rearrange furniture if you find that it can’t reach certain areas. If you’re away from home and want the Roborock Q7+ to start a cleaning run, just open the app and start it from wherever you are in the world.
The Roborock Q7 Max+ robot vacuum is down to $500 from its usual $870. If you’ve been holding off your robot vacuum purchase until a deal cuts a few hundred bucks off, now is the time to buy. Grab it before Prime Day robot vacuum deals end tonight at midnight.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more This Shark robot vacuum just had its price slashed from $249 to $129 6 early Black Friday robot vacuum deals happening right now iRobot Braava Jet M6 robot mop is over $100 off right now Sleeker than a Ring doorbell: Google’s Nest Doorbell is $60 off Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Robot Vacuums Smart Home If you missed the Prime Day Dyson cordless vacuum deals from Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023, don't worry because you can enjoy more offers from other retailers like Walmart, where the Dyson V8 Origin+ is on sale with a $170 discount. From its original price of $420, it's down to a more affordable $250, but probably not for long. If you want to get this cordless vacuum for much cheaper than usual, it's highly recommended that you stop wasting time -- push through with the purchase right now.
Why you should buy the Dyson V8 Origin+ The Dyson V8 Origin+ is a less expensive variant of the Dyson V8 Absolute -- they're not the latest versions of the brand's cordless vacuums, but that doesn't mean you should avoid the purchase. The Dyson V8 Origin+ remains a worthwhile investment because it's still a powerful cleaning device by today's standards, with the capability to suck in all kinds of dirt, debris, and pet hair from around your home. It can switch to a handheld vacuum for use in tight spaces like inside vehicles, and once you're done, you can easily empty its contents directly into your trash bin without having to touch what it picked up.
Smart Home It's a frustrating paradox that we see again and again. As a simple technology (such as vacuuming) gets improved upon, it can actually get more difficult to find a decent price on the product. It doesn't seem real that even when shopping through vacuum deals that it can be hard to find one under $100. You can think of it as a type of "technology inflation" with TVs being constantly filled with better and better tech. Walmart's Deals Holiday Kickoff, going through October 12th at 7PM EST, are working overtime to correct this issue, though. The Shark Freestyle Pro Cordless Vacuum, once $160, is now just $68. A true price for the people, and a savings of $92. Tap the button below to make it yours, or continue reading to see if it is really worth it.
Why you should buy the Shark Freestyle Pro Cordless Vacuum This is one of those deals where it really does come down to price. Even at Walmart, one of the nation's cheapest retailers, finding an affordable vacuum cleaner is tricky. On a normal day, anything bigger than a handheld car crevice cleaner will run you over $100. Even bagged, in 2023, vacuum cleaners seem to pull in big dollars. In short, when you see a functional vacuum cleaner under a $100, you buy it.
Smart Home With the launch of Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023, retailers have rolled out their own offers so they won't be left behind. But Amazon, showing its king of sales, has an excellent offer you should consider if you're interested in starting or expanding your smart home system -- the third-generation Google Nest Learning Thermostat at $50 off, bringing its price down to $200 from $249 originally. We expect this bargain to generate a lot of attention, so before stocks run out, you should proceed with the purchase right now.
Why you should buy the third-generation Google Nest Learning Thermostat The third-generation Google Nest Learning Thermostat is in our list of the best smart thermostats as the top option if you have a Google Home system up and running. However, it's still a worthwhile investment if it will be your first smart home device because of the convenience that it will bring to you and your family. Like any smart thermostat, you can control it using smartphones, tablets, or other internet-connected devices to change the temperature at home and to schedule when you want it to set certain temperatures at any time of the day, Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
