Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Mobile Features Forget ChatGPT — Siri and Google Assistant do these 4 things better By Nadeem Sarwar Close “Hey Google, Arbab!” I utter these lines to Google Assistant, which automatically takes me to my Twitter DMs with my friend Arbab. That chain of actions happens because I customized one such shortcut for Google Assistant on my phone. Putting the same prompt before ChatGPT , I get the predictably disappointing response: “I’m sorry, but as an AI language model, I do not have access to personal contact information such as phone numbers or email addresses.” Ease of access and unmatched versatility Assistant flexes control beyond just a phone Easing lives, one shortcut at a time ChatGPT is history, but assistants are real-time The road ahead That’s just one of the dozen walls that you will run into if you seek to embrace ChatGPT while simultaneously ditching mainstream options like Google Assistant.
 One wonders why ChatGPT – considered by evangelists as the pinnacle of a consumer-facing AI in 2023 – fails miserably at something as fundamental as sending a message.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends 2023 is being hawked as the year AI changes everything. From dramatic work shifts and job losses to copyright battles galore and how an average person searches the internet. It sounds a bit like the crypto grift, but unlike tokens generated out of thin air, the AI wave has actually made a tangible difference in our internet-linked lives. The best example of this AI revolution is ChatGPT.
But away from the AI hype universe and into the domain of real-world utility, ChatGPT is still no match for the three most widely used AI assistants — Alexa , Google Assistant , and Siri. Below are a few broad scenarios where your “boring” AI assistant is still leaps and bounds ahead of OpenAI’s pathbreaking AI innovation.
Ease of access and unmatched versatility Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Before we get to the nitty-gritty in terms of capabilities and limitations, let’s start with the most fundamental requisite: ease of access. You can summon Google Assistant right on the lock screen of your phone. Of course, you need to enable the feature manually, but once you’ve set it up, it’s all a walk in the park. Amazon’s Alexa and Apple’s Siri also offer the same convenience.
All you need is to utter the right voice command, and the AI assistant will do the bidding. ChatGPT, on the other hand, doesn’t offer the lock screen access convenience. That’s primarily because OpenAI doesn’t offer any dedicated ChatGPT app. You will have to access it by firing up a browser app installed on your phone and then visiting the ChatGPT page.
Taylor Frint/Digital Trends Graphic The best you can do is open Safari, visit the ChatGPT website, and create a shortcut for it for the Home Screen. Another alternative is to create a Siri automation shortcut for ChatGPT , but you still have to unlock your iPhone for the command chain to kick into action and take you to the ChatGPT conversation page in a browser of your choice. For a tech innovation that is touted to revolutionize our digital lives, that’s a heck load of effort from the get-go.
Ask Siri about nearby cafes, and it will pull up a map view with cafes dotted all around your current location. The AI assistant will place a call on your behalf, and if you happen to use Google’s AI assistant, it will screen incoming calls for you.
 Google will even let you save a transcript of all your Assistant conversations. It can read text contents on a web page for you, start playing a song or TV show on a streaming service of your choice, or just crack a lame joke to break the monotony of the moment.
Assistant flexes control beyond just a phone Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends ChatGPT has the entire world’s knowledge at its disposal, yet, it can’t do meaningful stuff natively on your phone. Of course, ChatGPT can write your assignment for you, whip up a terrific resume, and even help with your code. But those aren’t things you do every day. ChatGPT can’t pull up your meeting calendar for the next day, switch off the bedroom light, or call your friend on an app of your choice.
Siri can. And so can Google Assistant. Or Alexa. For better or worse, our lives are still very much reliant on our phones and the apps installed on them. Siri can call your best bud with a one-liner voice command, and Google Assistant can open your WhatsApp chat with a few words, irrespective of your language or accent.
With a voice command, you can summon any app installed on your phone, from payments and social media to a calendar or ticket booking. The true superpower of these AI assistants is that they talk to material stored on your phone while also touching the endless web of information on the internet.
ChatGPT can only serve as a bridge between you and the internet, but it can’t interact with any app or file stored on your phone. And that means it is cut off entirely from your digital life and all the connected devices in your home, office, and even vehicles. For example, I can tell Google Assistant to play music on a speaker placed in the drawing room of my house. ChatGPT doesn’t interact with any device at all! Easing lives, one shortcut at a time Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Assistants might sound dumb because they don’t give you the kind of verbose responses that the likes of ChatGPT and Google’s Bard can surprise you with. But that’s only convenient to a certain extent. When it comes to getting real work done, these on-device assistants race miles ahead of ChatGPT. One immensely potent tool, in particular, is the assistants’ ability to allow shortcuts, from single-step tasks like opening your Instagram feed to executing multi-step commands.
Let’s start with Google Assistant, which offers something called Routines. By default, the Google Assistant app already has you covered with the six most commonly encountered scenarios where you could use task automation in order to make your life more streamlined. You get Routines for bedtime, commuting to home or work, morning, chilling at home, and leaving the confines of your house.
Take, for example, the preset routine called “commuting to work.” As soon as you utter the specified voice command, “Let’s go to work,” Google Assistant will trigger four actions for you. It will start by telling you the traffic status between your home and office, followed by narrating the weather information, reading the calendar entries for the day ahead, and then playing some music as you ride the tube or your car. You can, of course, customize every bit of it, such as playing a certain playlist, artist, or genre of music.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Taking things to a more granular level, you have Shortcuts, which basically cut short a task requiring multiple on-screen taps down to a single voice command.
For example, a command like “Hey Google, book an Uber” will launch the Uber app and land you on the page where you only have to enter your destination in order to hail a ride. If you prefer Siri, Apple’s assistant offers you more versatility and an even higher level of command control with multi-step routines and support for every single app installed on your iPhone.
ChatGPT is history, but assistants are real-time Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends “I don’t have real-time information on the results of IPL matches or any other live events,” reads the ChatGPT response when I ask it about the winner of an IPL cricket match from last night. Google Assistant gave me just the information I wanted. It even went a step further and pulled some neat highlight videos from last night’s match. Now, how convenient is that? The biggest difference – and one that can make or break the deal for many users, including me — is that ChatGPT only produces information as recent as 2021. That’s partly because the data used to train OpenAI’s chatty natural language model only dates as far back as 2021 in the past and partly because it has been coded to avoid commentating on current events to steer clear of any bias.
That’s an extremely inconvenient limitation that drastically reduces the practical utility of ChatGPT in day-to-day life. The likes of Google Assistant, Siri, and Alexa co-exist with the internet as it evolves with each passing second, adding more information to its bank. From weather and real-time traffic details to sports scores and something as critically important as emergency alerts, it’s these assistants will come to your rescue — not ChatGPT.
But that’s just the tip of the iceberg. Google, in particular, has beautifully integrated its assistant with all the information available courtesy of its Search engine. Finding great deals on products, or hotel tickets, is a breeze and just a single sentence away. Alexa, on the other hand, will add any product you need straight to your Amazon cart. ChatGPT is straight-up terrible with your shopping or vacation planning needs and will only offer wordy suggestions.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Even if you are using these virtual assistants as your knowledge bank, they still race ahead of ChatGPT in one crucial area. When you pose a question before Google Assistant, it also brings up relevant web search results so that you instantly click on a link and find more information. This approach also bodes well when it comes to getting more contextual information and vetting the source of information first-hand.
In the case of ChatGPT, it acts more like a summarizer of the internet. When ChatGPT provides you with an answer spread across a few paragraphs, it doesn’t provide any information about the sources that it gleaned the information from. Plus, generative AI programs have well-documented hallucination, bias, and factual inaccuracy problems. In a nutshell, you should avoid blindly trusting the information regurgitated by ChatGPT or any other buzzy product of its ilk.
The road ahead Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends OpenAI’s conversational AI has stirred quite some renaissance in the tech industry, and to such an extent that the likes of Microsoft and Google are racing to bake AI smarts into their products used by hundreds of millions across the globe. From having an AI write and summarise emails for you to having it create professional presentation slides, the digital citizen is living at the periphery of a dramatic shift that will forever change how we interact with our computing machines.
The New York Times even published a thought-provoking article titled “How Siri, Alexa and Google Assistant Lost the A.I. Race.” But it’s an insightful take at best that focuses more on the mad AI race between the world’s three most influential (and richest) companies. Interestingly, it walks past the dozens of practical tasks where the likes of Google Assistant , Alexa , and Siri run circles around ChatGPT.
That status quo is not going to change anytime soon. Yes, ChatGPT is great, and with the recent GPT-4 enhancements , it has added more impressive tricks under its belt. However, those tricks won’t turn AI assistants obsolete. If anything, a well-thought integration of AI smarts will only make these virtual assistants more productive instead of condemning them to a slow death.
Editors' Recommendations I used an Android phone with ChatGPT built-in — and I loved it ChatGPT’s iPhone app now has Bing built-in OpenAI’s new ChatGPT app is free for iPhone and iPad This app is like ChatGPT for your email, and it changed my life Check your inbox — Google may have invited you to use Bard, its ChatGPT rival Amazon Amazon Alexa Apple Artificial Intelligence Features Google Google Nest Mobile Koo, a social media app developed in India that pushes itself as a Twitter replacement, is deploying ChatGPT smarts to prop its appeal. The company says Koo is the “first microblogging platform in the world” to integrate ChatGPT to boost the creative flow. Koo follows in the footsteps of Snapchat in deploying ChatGPT for some cutting-edge AI bragging rights.
At the moment, the ChatGPT integration is only available to creators with a sizeable following or those with a verified badge. However, it will soon be available for everyone without any follower count restriction. So far, the company hasn’t said anything about charging users for the feature, or whether it might be moved to a premium tier in the near future, considering the fact that OpenAI’s viral tool is embracing the API route for commercial usage.
Aside from text prompts, Koo users can also use the voice dictation feature to interact with the AI. The draft section of Koo app will let users accomplish tasks like “finding the top news of the day or asking for a quote from a well-known personality or even asking for the post or a blog to be written.” The latter is worrisome, which I’ve briefly discussed below. There's also some precedent for that out there with apps like Paragraph AI doing everything from generating content in various styles to taking over even your messaging app conversations.
Koo is pushing itself as a Twitter alternative and says it has accumulated over 50 million downloads ... but hasn’t disclosed the number of users. However, it looks like the Koo is trying to boost its appeal by recruiting the hottest new tool on the internet, one that will also be immensely convenient to churn out human-like thoughtful content in bulk — which is again the easy route to grabbing more eyeballs.
Computing Apple is in a deadlock with email app BlueMail over its decision to give the app's latest update an age restriction of 17 and older due to its ChatGPT integration.
Apple is currently blocking the update because the app's developer Blix Inc. disagrees with the company's stance to give BlueMail an age restriction, having rejected the brand's update application last week, according to the Wall Street Journal.
Mobile Snapchat is best known as a popular social media app for sending photos/videos to friends and watching bad reality shows. But starting today, Snapchat also wants to be your go-to destination for ChatGPT. Yes, that's right — the same ChatGPT technology that caused Bing Chat to declare it wanted to be human.
Per an announcement on the Snapchat Newsroom website, ChatGPT is coming to the Snapchat app in the form of the "My AI" chatbot. My AI will appear in the Snapchat app just like any of your other friends. You'll find My AI on the Chat page, you can view its profile, look at its avatar, etc. At a glance, My AI looks like any of your other Snapchat friends.
My AI brings ChatGPT to Snapchat Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
