Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to use Amazon’s Alexa app on your smartphone By Jackie Dove , Steven Winkelman and Paula Beaton Close Amazon Alexa is one of the most popular smart assistants available. With support for a wide range of devices and the ability to check the news, give a quick update on your favorite sports team, or perform hundreds of other tasks, it’s an incredibly useful piece of software. But it’s the support for smart home products that really makes Alexa compelling, as it can quickly send commands to most devices and gives you remote access to all your gadgets.
How to configure Alexa on Android or iPhone What you can do with Alexa on the smartphone Here, we take a look at how to use the Alexa app on any smartphone , along with tips on how to make the most of all its features.
How to configure Alexa on Android or iPhone Huge Garmin sale discounts smartwatches, navigation devices How to use StandBy in iOS 17 to turn your iPhone into a smart display How to fix a dead pixel on your monitor or smartphone You can personalize the way that Alexa works on all of your supported devices by installing Amazon’s Alexa app via the Google Play Store or the Apple App Store.
If you’ve never used an Alexa-enabled device before, it’s worth taking a few minutes to customize it. Tap the Three-line menu icon in the bottom-right corner of the screen to access the following: Routines: Alexa lets you set up a series of actions to perform at specific times or under specific circumstances so you can use a single command to turn on lights, switch on a radio station, turn up the heat, and other actions with a single command. The app recommends featured sequences like “Alexa, good morning” and “Alexa, I’m home,” for example.
Reminders: You can set reminders for meetings or appointments on specific times or days, or just ask Alexa to remind you to do something regularly, such as take a pill every morning.
Alarms and Timers: You can add an alarm directly from the app or adjust alarms and timers you’ve set using your Alexa-supported device — for example, cancel or make adjustments to a timer.
Lists and Notes: Here’s where you’ll see items you’ve added (via voice command) to your Amazon shopping and to-do list from the Alexa app.
Skills and Games: You can browse, enable, and manage the thousands of third-party apps that extend Alexa’s functionality from categories like Business and Finance, Food and Drink, Health and Fitness, and many more. See which ones you’ve installed by tapping the Your skills button in the top-right corner of the screen.
Settings: This menu lets you set up your profile, location, and preferences like Music and Podcasts, TV and Video, Sports, Reminders, Photos, Notifications, and more.
See More: Select this to open a drop-down menu with other options you can set up, including Find My, Workout, Things to Try, and Blueprints, which allows you to create personalized skills.
You can tap the Three-line menu icon, and select Settings to review your various Alexa-enabled devices and set names for them, as well as locations, time zones, and preferences for temperature and distance measurement units.
What you can do with Alexa on the smartphone The Alexa app can tell the time, deliver a weather report, or provide daily sports and news summary from NPR, CNN, the Associated Press, and more. Here are some commands that Alexa supports : Alexa, what’s the time? Alexa, what’s the latest news? Alexa, flip a coin.
Alexa, 10 dollars to pounds.
Alexa, 15 times 32.
Alexa, how’s the weather outside today? Alexa, set a timer [X] minutes.
Alexa, add milk to my shopping list.
Alexa, what’s on my calendar? Alexa, start a seven-minute workout.
Alexa, tell a bedtime story to [your child’s name].
The Alexa app is compatible with Amazon’s Kindle and Audible services. If you ask, “ Alexa , read my Kindle book,” you’ll hear an audiobook recording or text-to-speech transcription of the most recent addition to your Amazon library. Asking, “ Alexa , read my audiobook” prompts the assistant to start or resume any audiobook you’ve purchased from Audible.
You can pair a variety of home appliances and electronics with the Alexa app, not to mention commands over your automobiles. If you have a Philips Hue or Samsung SmartThings device, Alexa can switch on lights or change TV channels. You can remotely start vehicles, change the interior temperature, run on-demand diagnostics and alerts, search destinations, and remotely locate your car using Hyundai’s Blue Link platform.
Here’s a list of all the Alexa-supported Internet of Things devices.
Alexa and Amazon’s shopping platforms are tightly integrated, allowing you to place an order for anything on Amazon Prime , including Amazon Fresh groceries, Amazon Prime Pantry non-perishables, and Amazon Prime Now 2-hour delivery items. You can pull up the status of shipments due for arrival with the simple verbal command, “ Alexa where’s my stuff?.” Investing in Alexa software will also grant you special bargains on any number of goods and services that pop up throughout the year through numerous companies.
Many apps fall within Amazon’s collection of skills, meaning that Alexa can enable these apps through voice recognition. A particularly useful one is the Chef app, which can read recipes, send shopping lists, and track expiration dates.
Uber and Lyft’s apps can summon rides to your approximate location and Fitbit’s app can tell you how many steps you’ve taken. The Capital One app details your bank balance, while apps from Dominos , Pizza Hut , and Grubhub allow you to get food delivered.
Editors' Recommendations iOS 17: How to add a different home screen wallpaper on your iPhone 9 early Prime Day deals you need to know about — from $55 This app lets me use iMessage on my Android phone. Here’s how it works This amazing iOS 17 feature clones your voice. Here’s how it works How to install the Google Play Store on your Amazon Fire tablet Smart Home Amazon Amazon Alexa How-To Guides Mobile Printers may be on the way out, given the rise of digital file sharing, but they're unlikely to go away completely any time soon. Thankfully, you don't need a computer to print files. Instead, you can do it straight from your smartphone. That's why we've put together this guide to help you learn how to print files straight from your Android phone.
Mobile Believe it or not, finding files you’ve downloaded on your iPhone or Android phone can be tougher than you think. Even the best smartphones can quickly become a handheld electronic briefcase. Along with the apps you need to get you through your day, it’s packed with photos, videos, files, and other media. While it’s all too easy to download a photo or a restaurant menu to your mobile device, when it comes to actually finding where downloads reside on your phone, the opposite is true. It can be difficult to find a particular file amid heaps of other folders.
Audio / Video Modern smart TVs have come a long way and have all kinds of built-in abilities to deliver everything from our favorite streaming services and YouTube videos to video games, video conferencing, and even web browsing our big, bright TVs.
But with the millions of other things that our phones and tablets can do — photos and videos and apps abound — sometimes you just need to share it all on a big TV screen for everyone to see. How can you mirror from a phone or tablet to a TV, you ask? If you have the right gear, it's surprisingly easy. We'll walk you through all of the options, whether you own an iPhone, an Android device, or a computer.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
