Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home News Amazon Echo (4th Gen) review: New look, same outstanding results By John Velasco Close $100.00 Charming new spherical design Dazzling LED light ring Acts as an Amazon Sidewalk Bridge Great sounding audio Bass strains at highest volume It’s hard to imagine that the original Amazon Echo smart speaker was released in 2014, growing to become one of the most popular smart speakers around. For many people, it was their introduction to the future of the home — where voice control became paramount in tasking a digital assistant to accomplish things. Well now, we have the latest member in the established line with the fourth-generation Amazon Echo.
Charming spherical design Adaptive audio ready for any room Same old Alexa smarts Helping to bring Sidewalk to more places Our take While I was banking on perhaps a variant of last year’s third-generation model, Amazon instead surprised me (as well as many others) by introducing a proper successor. What’s interesting, though, is the radical shift in design, which breaks from the traditional cylindrical shape of previous speakers. With new offerings from the competition already announced, namely the Google Nest Audio and Apple HomePod mini , the Amazon Echo (4th Gen) clearly has a fight ahead of itself in becoming the standout winner this season.
What is Amazon Alexa, and what can it do? HomePod Mini vs. Echo Dot: which is better? Nest Mini (2nd-gen) vs. Amazon Echo Dot (5th-gen) Charming spherical design When Amazon introduced the Echo (4th Gen) during its virtual September 2020 press event , I was skeptical about the new design. It was a radical shift from what we’ve been used to seeing, so it didn’t leave much of an impression on me. But as soon as I unboxed it, placed it on my desk, and powered it on, I was smitten. Seriously smitten, mainly because I didn’t expect it to look so good just perched there.
When we think of speakers, a rectangular form of some kind comes to mind, so for this to change it up (and break from tradition) is a daring move on Amazon’s part. The spherical shape isn’t over-bloated as I initially thought. Quite the contrary because it measures in at 5.7 inches at the base and 5.2 inches in height. Sporting this two-toned look consisting of a 100% post-consumer recycled fabric that covers most of the speaker, it’s a pleasant and charming design that accents any decor.
Image used with permission by copyright holder As usual, there are physical buttons on top of the speaker for volume controls, action, and mic off. Who knows if it’s intentional, but the LED light ring around the base of the Echo (4th Gen) was an ingenious move. Not only does it glow in a piercing color whenever I fetch Alexa, but it dazzles and pulses in various colors to accentuate Alexa’s listening and responses. The dynamic effect of the LED light ring is even more pronounced if it’s placed atop of reflective surfaces.
A refreshing change long in the making.
Amazon took a gamble on the design, and it pays off as a refreshing change long in the making. The only complaint I have is that I wish Amazon could just incorporate an LED display similar to the Echo Dot with Clock , just because it’d be nice to be able to tell the time quickly with a glance — as opposed to asking Alexa.
Adaptive audio ready for any room One of the main reasons why people buy smart speakers is to listen to music, whether it’s leisurely or while hosting a big party. The Amazon Echo (4th Gen) doesn’t disappoint in this area. In fact, the Echo line, by and large, is known to deliver solid audio. Although, Amazon has clearly etched a distinctive line where it’s more of a mid-range offering in terms of audio performance after last year’s Echo Studio.
 It’s still incredibly capable of appeasing audiophiles, more so when it adopts the same room-adapting technology of the Echo Studio by sensing the acoustics of the room to enhance its performance.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Equipped with a 3-inch neodymium woofer and dual 0.8-inch tweeters, audio in the high-range is pronounced and clear thanks to the Dolby processing — with a rich bass that complements it. You can tweak some of its settings through the Alexa app, such as bass, midrange, and treble, but I find that it can still sound strained at higher volume levels. The lows seem to be impacted the most by this, producing a bit of strain with the bass.
On its own, the Echo (4th Gen) seems just a smidgen behind the Nest Audio’s overall performance, but it’s worth pointing out that you can pair it with other Echo devices too (including smart displays), for synchronized music playback for the entire home.
Same old Alexa smarts The Echo wouldn’t be what it is today without Alexa, the smart assistant that powers the company’s many smart home gadgets. I’ll be honest, I don’t use Alexa as frequently as I should because my preferred smart assistant is Google Assistant.
 That’s because I rely on Google’s services so much, so it’s the logical choice.
After reacquainting myself with Alexa over the last couple of months with the Amazon Echo Show (2nd Gen) , and subsequently with the Echo (4th Gen), I have a new appreciation for how useful it is as an assistant. First and foremost, it integrates seamlessly with Amazon’s many services. For example, I recently made a purchase on Amazon for these Listerine Pocketmist sprays. On the day of delivery, I noticed that the Echo’s LED light ring was glowing in yellow. Yet, I didn’t know what it meant, so I asked Alexa. She told me that my order was just delivered even before I got the chance to check the notification on my phone.
Image used with permission by copyright holder This is just one of the many examples that show how Alexa is deeply intertwined with Amazon’s services. When it comes to controlling the smart home, she can accomplish the same task as Google Assistant. This, of course, is one of Alexa’s biggest advantages over Google Assistant — as there are far more Alexa-compatible devices out there than Google Assistant or Siri. While I feel that Google Assistant in my experience does a better job at responding to questions and requests based on contextual clues, I can’t tell you how much I’m amused by hearing Samuel L. Jackson’s voice on the Echo. He’s by far the most amusing celebrity voice.
Frankly, Alexa’s prowess doesn’t change here with the Echo (4th Gen). If you own an older Echo, you’re not going to find anything new here in regards to her abilities. Downloading more skills will obviously extend her functionality, but it’s again no different from other Alexa-enabled smart speakers and displays.
Helping to bring Sidewalk to more places For most people, it may be an afterthought, but the Echo (4th Gen) is notable for Amazon Sidewalk.
 It’s an addition to the fact that it’s also a smart home hub with support for Bluetooth LE and ZigBee. If you have door and window sensors that leverage these standards, you will be able to set some of them up directly through the Echo and send commands to them as well.
The Echo (4th Gen) still packs a heavy punch on its own and offers a delightful all-around performance.
More importantly, though, is that it can be used as a Sidewalk Bridge, which will help compatible devices to connect to it. This new low energy signal has greater implications for how devices communicate, as Amazon Sidewalk becomes more prevalent. Considering how bandwidth is a constant problem to tackle in the home when more and more devices are connected to the Wi-Fi network, Amazon Sidewalk aims to alleviate this congestion and connectivity struggle.
What does this all mean? Quite simply, it effectively will provide more coverage for compatible devices. The upcoming Tile tracker is a perfect example of Amazon Sidewalk’s reach. Usually, you’d be able to track one down within close proximity via Bluetooth LE, which generally doesn’t exceed hundreds of feet away. If you happen to leave it behind at a friend’s place who happens to have an Echo (4th Gen), the Tile tracker can still be located even if you travel back home. That’s because the Echo acts as a Sidewalk Bridge, allowing compatible devices to communicate with it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder This is all new and interesting, but this addition will greatly help in the way Internet of Things devices communicate. Despite that, the Echo (4th Gen) remains a fantastic home hub to control and access all of your existing smart home devices.
Our take Amazon’s gamble in bringing a fresh new take with its latest Echo smart speaker pays off, largely by the fact it’s a refreshing design that’s charming, offers an exceptional audio experience, and all the smarts that accompany Alexa. Google’s Nest Audio may have the edge when it comes to audio performance, but the Echo (4th Gen) still packs a heavy punch on its own and offers a delightful all-around performance. It’s priced to attract people at $100, making it a strong consideration as your next smart speaker — more so if you’re heavily invested in the Amazon ecosystem.
How long will it last? Amazon takes pride in the Echo’s construction, which consists of 50% post-consumer recycled plastics, 100% post-consumer recycled fabric, and 100% recycled die-cast aluminum. It feels solidly constructed and isn’t all that heavy too, especially when compared to the Google Nest Audio.
There’s little concern about something breaking down, primarily because it’s going to remain stationary. However, it does come with a 1-year limited warranty to cover defects, but Amazon also provides accident protection for a cost.
Is there a better alternative? Music aficionados will prefer the Nest Audio’s performance in delivering better audio quality. Then again, the Amazon Echo Studio is the speaker to choose if you’re an audiophile, but you’re paying a hefty cost to pick it up.
There’s also this question of whether or not smart speakers are valuable choices when smart displays come into the equation.
 For the $100 cost, it’s hard to overlook the Amazon Echo (4th Gen) because it presents a well-rounded package. But then again, it lacks some of the added conveniences that smart displays offer. The Amazon Echo Show 8 makes for a convincing option for a price that’s a little more or less depending on whether it’s on sale.
Should you buy it? You bet! Whether you’re looking to upgrade a previous speaker or make an addition to your existing collection, the Amazon Echo (4th Gen) offers outstanding value for its cost — plus it looks oh-so-good with its new spherical design! Editors' Recommendations Best Amazon Echo deals: The Show, Pop and Dot are on sale What to do if your Amazon Alexa app is not working The best Amazon Echo tips and tricks The history of the Amazon Echo New Amazon Echos bring ‘dot displays’ and mesh networking, plus models for kids and cars Audio / Video Amazon Amazon Alexa Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Speakers Smart Home Fourth of July is coming soon, and what's the point of having a smart assistant if not to help you through the holidays? Amazon's Alexa is one of the most well-versed smart assistants thanks to all the skills it can learn to entertain you, inform you, or control other household devices.
Did you know Alexa knows over 100,000 skills? We've picked out the best ones to know to help and entertain you and your guests this Independence Day. These skills have been tested by our team, are regularly updated, and are rated high enough for you to trust them to be accurate in their description.
Smart Home If you’ve purchased a new Amazon Echo Show 15, there’s an important thing to know: You really need to plan to wall-mount it. If that’s not in the cards for you (maybe you’re in a rental or just don’t have wall space), you have a few options, since unlike pretty much all other Echo Show devices, you can pick how you want to orient the Echo Show 15. Let's take a look at the best ways to display your Echo Show 15 so it's accessible and safe from tipping over.
Use the included wall bracket for wall-mounting You can hang the Echo Show 15 on a wall with the included bracket. You can read the instructions, but you simply screw the bracket to the wall. Use the drywall anchors if you don’t have an available stud. The Show 15 will slide onto the bracket for a safe and permanent installation.
Use a stand Smart Home If you're thinking about buying a smart speaker, you might be undecided on what to get. We hear you. With all the news and info you hear about the two most popular voice assistants, Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant, it's hard to know which one to choose. Given their usefulness from playing music to some other stuff you probably didn't know they could do, it's no wonder they're so invaluable.
While the original Google Home speaker has long been discontinued (the name lives in the all-purpose Google Home app), Google's line of smart Nest speakers, like the Nest Mini and Nest Audio, carry on the tradition with updated features.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
