Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best smart displays for 2023 By Michael Bizzaco and Erika Rawes Close Smart displays sit at the very center of most smart homes. With the ability to sync with other gadgets to issue commands, give you daily updates, or serve as a second screen to binge your favorite shows, smart displays are remarkably versatile devices.
The smart display market is more saturated today than ever before, with products from Amazon, Google, Facebook, and more vying for your attention. Google has even revealed that the upcoming Pixel Tablet will double as a smart display, and Apple might be throwing its hat into the ring sooner than expected.
There’s clearly a lot of options on the market, but figuring out which is best for your home isn’t always easy. If you need some help with your search, here’s a look at the best smart displays of 2023. Whether you’re working with Google Home, Amazon Alexa, or just want something with Matter support, there’s bound to be something that catches your eye.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Echo Show 15 The best smart display Huge 15.6-inch screen Widget functionality makes it easy to see tasks, smart home, and more at a glance Different orientation options Visual ID swaps between users Lacks customization and personalization options Software crashes without explanation Many smart displays are a little on the small side and that can make them difficult to watch from across the room, limiting their range. The Echo Show 15 removes this concern with the largest smart display yet, a 15.6-inch touchscreen that you can mount on the wall like a picture frame or use with a countertop base, getting it right where you want. That also solves the problem of the Echo Show 10's swiveling design that felt awkward or needed too much space in many setups.
Of course, you also get all the Alexa benefits here, including the ability to stream video (Alexa supports streaming apps like Netflix and Hulu), control your smart home, video chat with friends, or look through devices like the Ring Doorbell.
It’s one of the most user-friendly models we’ve seen.
John Velasco/Digital Trends Google Nest Hub Max The best Google Assistant display Dazzling display, perfect for picture sharing Camera adds a layer of home security Auto-framing keeps us in view with video calls Tailored experience thanks to Face Match Audio quality is strained at louder volumes Sure, the Nest Hub Max has a larger screen than the original Nest Hub, but it also offers a lot more features and functionality in addition to its brilliant HD screen. It has a 6.5-inch megapixel camera with auto-framing so you can make video calls, and the camera will even follow you as you move around the room.
Face-match technology allows for a more personalized experience. When the Hub recognizes your face, it can show you content specific to you (video messages, reminders, upcoming calendar events, etc.). Up to six users can save a face-match profile. The Nest Hub Max also allows for quick gesture control, so you can use hand gestures to control certain functions (like pausing or playing a music track).
The Hub Max has a Nest Cam built-in.
 You can use the Nest Cam to check on your home while you're away, although some of the more advanced features require a Nest Aware subscription.
Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models John Velasco / Digital Trends Google Nest Hub (2nd Gen) The best no-camera display Accurate sleep tracking Tons of data about your sleep $100 starting price Few new features over previous model Google's Nest Hub smart display is one of the few that lacks a camera for video chatting, so you can only make voice calls using the device. Just like the original Nest Hub, the Nest Hub 2 doesn't have a camera, but it has a 7-inch touchscreen that lets you better interact with Google Assistant. You can view recipes, watch shows, see song lyrics, see the devices in your smart home, and more.
The 2nd-generation model added in Soli radar for motion sensing, which allows the Hub to perform a feature called "Sleep Sensing." This means the Hub can gather sleep data and provide tips on how to sleep better. Our review found this feature to be surprisingly accurate, with a dashboard that displays accurate data on how long it takes to fall asleep, respiratory rate info, and how long it takes to get out of bed.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends / .
Echo Show 5 (3rd gen) The best budget smart display Decent price, especially once sales hit Good screen Does all the Alexa stuff Loads of Amazon goodies at hand Browser experience is bad Screen a tad laggy The Echo Show 5 is pretty small, with only a 5.5-inch screen. The Show 5 does, however, have a lot to offer in a tiny package. It supports the basic functions you can perform with most smart displays — make video calls, control your smart home devices, watch videos, and ask the assistant questions. But the Show 5 is a budget display, so it only has a 2-megapixel camera and a single 1.75-inch speaker.
The Show 5 thrives in terms of its privacy features. It has a slider you can use to physically block the camera. You can also take advantage of newer Alexa Privacy features , like the ability to erase your recordings for the day. It may not offer the biggest screen on the market, but it's a great choice for homes with a cramped kitchen or if you're looking for a display for your nightstand or office.
Meta Meta Portal The best video call smart display Affordable AR filters for fun video chats with Meta apps like Messenger and WhatsApp Built-in Alexa Screen is a bit small for video chats Once known as Facebook Portal, the revised Meta Portal is a picture frame-like smart display made to be Facebook-friendly. The 10-inch display includes a Smart Camera that can track your location when moving, and there’s an easy-access augmented reality (AR) library to add effects and filters to your video chats, so it’s ideal for casual video calls with friends.
The Portal works with expected apps like Messenger, WhatsApp, Zoom, and more, so you probably won’t have to learn a new video platform. There’s also support for common music services like Spotify, Pandora, and Tidal. While Meta doesn’t have its own voice assistant (yet), the Portal fortunately comes with Alexa built-in, so it can do many of the things an Echo Show can.
More Nick Mokey / Digital Trends Echo Show 8 (3rd Gen) Shockingly great sound Convenient size and form factor Sharp, bright screen Support for common streaming apps High-quality camera Dated design Teeming with Amazon bloatware Poor video chat software support No Z-Wave, Eero mesh, line-out jack Sitting nicely between the Show 5 and Show 15 is the Echo Show 8. Its design is finally starting to show its age (it looks eerily similar to its predecessors despite being newly refreshed for 2023), but it's packed full of useful features. This includes a vibrant screen, a camera for video chats, and support for spatial audio. Its audio quality is a particular standout, with dual two-inch drivers punching well above their weight.
It’s a similar result for its 1280 x 800 resolution screen – which may sound lackluster, but when you consider the screen is just 8 inches, that's more than enough pixels to get the job done. Not only does it look great, but it's incredibly responsive as a touchscreen. Flipping through all your apps is a breeze, though some big apps (such as YouTube and Teams) are absent.
Aside from those quirks, the Echo Show 8 is a well-rounded smart display. It may not be perfect if you're hoping to use it for frequent video chats, but if you need something with a great display and audio, the Echo Show 8 deserves a closer look.
Frequently Asked Questions Think of a smart display as a Google Home or Amazon Echo speaker with a screen. This allows the voice assistant (Alexa or Google Home, for instance) to show you information instead of only telling you vocally.
Although tablets and smart displays have some similarities — they both have a display screen, they both play music, and they often both have an assistant (Siri, Google Assistant, Cortana, etc.) — the two devices have different primary functions.
A tablet is a portable computing device that's primary functions are internet searches, social media, app games, email, etc. It's a personal device that's not meant to fill a room with sound. A smart display typically stays stationary and has large speakers for playing music out loud. Its primary functions include things like controlling smart devices and answering questions as well as streaming video or enabling video chats.
Your smart display works with a smart assistant (like Alexa or Google Assistant) to read you the news, play music, play movies and TV, show you a feed of your security camera or video doorbell, show you a morning traffic or weather report, help you in the kitchen with conversions and recipes, set reminders and alarms for you, and so much more.
Not really. Some older devices that need Zigbee support won't always work with a smart display, but this isn't a common issue.
Most modern smart home products operate without the need for a hub, so you can control most smart devices with just your smart display (as long as they’re compatible). However, having a smart home hub can make your smart home more efficient.
Sometimes hubs will be required for specific devices, like certain Philips Hue bulbs or security systems you purchase from a professional provider.
Your top preferences will strongly influence which smart display is best for you. The Echo Show 5 and Nest Hub are excellent products if privacy and reasonable prices are your biggest priorities. If the top of your preference list is a bigger screen and superior audio quality, and you can swing a higher price, then you should check out the Echo Show 15 or the Google Nest Hub Max instead.
We don’t have a definitive answer here. Alexa and Google Assistant often outperform each other in different categories.
Alexa is compatible with a broader range of products than Google Assistant, for example. On the other hand, Google Assistant is superior when it comes to overall intelligence and responding to questions.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Best robot mops of 2023 Buying Guides Amazon Best Products Buying Guides Google Nest Smart Home Buying holiday lights for your home is an investment, so don’t go with lights that only offer one color choice. The best smart holiday lights can be changed to a wide array of colors and blinking patterns and can also be synced to music. You can control them using an app or voice commands using Alexa, Google Assistant, or IFTTT devices, and you can even put these types of lights on a schedule.
Love the idea of keeping your tree up year-round? With smart lights, you can change the light colors to fit the upcoming holiday or season. After the holidays, you could change your lights to pink and red for Valentine’s Day; pastel colors for Easter; red, white, and blue for Independence Day; orange and purple for Halloween … you get the idea.
Smart Home The best video doorbells of 2023 are being produced by household names like Wyze, Arlo, Nest, and Ring. Products from these companies span all budgets and offer a wide range of features -- including HD video capture, customizable motion zones, two-way audio, and the ability to save footage for later reference.
While most of the video doorbells available today are up to the task of guarding your front door, some of them are better-equipped than others. For example, some offer head-to-toe resolutions that are ideal for certain porches, while others provide enhanced night vision footage for easier detection.
Smart Home If you're shopping for the best outdoor security cameras of 2023, you'll want to find something that's weatherproof, captures high-quality footage, and works well at night. It's also important to consider your budget and ongoing subscriptions that may be required to access premium features such as cloud saving and person detection.
Regardless of your budget, there's an outdoor security camera that'll fit your needs. From premium products crafted by Ring to budget-friendly options like those from Wyze, there are dozens of well-reviewed models that are perfect for protecting your home.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
