Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best cordless vacuum deals: Get a Dyson-style vac for $89 By Bruce Brown Close A cordless vacuum is becoming a necessity for most families as it’s one of the easiest ways of cleaning your home. These machines will allow you to move from room to room without having to unplug each time, and they’ll also let you reach every nook and cranny. If you think it’s time to buy one, we’ve gathered some of the best cordless vacuum deals below, including Dyson cordless vacuums and cheaper alternatives. You’ll have to act fast though, as we don’t think these discounts will last for long.
Black+Decker Powerseries+ 16V Max — $89, was $100 Wyze Cordless Vacuum — $98, was $150 Shark IX141 Pet — $150, was $260 LG CordZero — $300, was $450 Dyson V11 — $400, was $570 Dyson V15 Detect Extra — $600, was $800 Black+Decker Powerseries+ 16V Max — $89, was $100 Amazon Black+Decker Powerseries+ 16V Max works great on all floor types, and you don’t have to activate any special modes to make it happen. It has an auto-detect function that automatically adjusts suction power when you switch surfaces. It has an LED light to help you see crumbs on the ground, and an anti-tangle brush bar to deal with pet hair. The cordless vacuum also has a freestanding design, meaning it will balance on the floor attachment without leaning on a wall, making it easy to store.
Wyze Cordless Vacuum — $98, was $150 Wyze / Wyze The Wyze Cordless Vacuum is equipped with a brushless 20,000Pa digital motor, plus another motor in the brush head with 9,500RPM of power. The brush head also features LED lights that will illuminate darker areas. The cordless vacuum will be able to pick up all kinds of dirt and debris, as well as pet hair, with its three speed options, and it can last up to 40 minutes on a single charge.
Shark IX141 Pet — $150, was $260 Shark The Shark IX141 Pet cordless vacuum is another option for dog and cat owners, as its powerful suction can pick up fur, dirt, and debris from hard floors and carpets. With its low-profile design, it can easily clean tight spaces such as the gaps beneath furniture, and it’s equipped with a battery that can run for up to 40 minutes on a single charge when in standard mode. You can use the cordless vacuum as a handheld vacuum for above-floor cleaning, and it comes with an XL dust cap with Shark’s CleanTouch Dirt Ejector so you won’t get your hands dirty when cleaning up.
LG CordZero — $300, was $450 LG Electronics The LG CordZero comes with a portable charging stand that you can set up anywhere without requiring you to drill holes into your wall, and it can run up to 40 minutes from a full charge. Operating it is easy — just a single touch is required to turn it on and off, and to choose between the different power levels. The cordless vacuum comes with an adjustable telescopic wand for more flexibility while cleaning, the ability to switch to handheld mode, and removable filters that you can wash when necessary.
Dyson V11 — $400, was $570 Dyson The Dyson V11 is capable of cleaning your entire home easily and efficiently with its powerful motor and a run time of up to 60 minutes on a full charge. The LCD screen will show you its different power modes, remaining run time, and maintenance alerts, and it comes with several accessories for cleaning different surface types and areas. The cordless vacuum can easily switch to a handheld vacuum, and it offers an advanced whole-machine filtration system.
Dyson V15 Detect Extra — $600, was $800 Dyson You’ll find most of the features that have made Dyson vacuum cleaners so popular in the Dyson V15 Detect , including the Dyson DLS technology that automatically adjusts suction depending on the debris level and floor type to maximize its run time of up to 60 minutes, an advanced whole-machine filtration system, and the ability to convert to a handheld vacuum. However, the Dyson V15 Detect also features a laser that will reveal hidden dust on hard floors, to make sure that you get them all.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Early Black Friday deal: $200 off the Dyson Supersonic Hair Dryer Usually $399, this Shark cordless vacuum is on sale for $198 Dyson’s HP07 air purifier, heater and fan is $200 off at Best Buy Deals Cheapest Prices Smart Home Best Buy is selling the Dyson V15 cordless vacuum for $600 today, down a significant $200 from its usual $800. While $600 may seem like a lot for a vacuum, this is no ordinary vacuum. Dyson has a reputation for quality and durability, and this vacuum is included in that. It very well could be the last vacuum you ever buy. Let's take a look at the specs that make this such a great purchase. If you end up being interested, you check grab it soon. This is part of Best Buy's early Black Friday deals, so it will likely end before the official shopping holiday starts next month.
Why you should buy the Dyson V15 cordless vacuum Let's talk about power first. The Dyson V15 can run its motor at up to 125,000rpm. It will pick up basically anything you spill. Not only that, but it has an intelligent system that will moderate its power based on how much debris it has picked up. It will maximize its efficiency by only using 100% of the motor when it needs to. This helps it get a total use time of one hour on a single charge. We hope for your sake you never have to vacuum for 60 continuous minutes. The LCD screen on the handle of the vacuum will report all of this information to you, so you can see which rooms in your house have the most dust and can override the system if need be.
Smart Home Dyson is one of the most trusted names in the home appliance industry with its high-performance bladeless fans, cordless vacuums, and hair styling tools, which is why shoppers are always on the lookout for Dyson deals. Here's some good news -- there are lots of Dyson products with discounts in Best Buy's Black Friday Early Access sale, and there are even better offers for My Best Buy Plus and My Best Buy Total members. We've rounded up our top picks below so you can easily choose what to purchase before the sale ends on Sunday, but you'll still have to hurry. That's because we're not sure how long stocks will remain available, especially for some of the more popular Dyson devices.
Best Dyson deals in Best Buy's Black Friday Early Access sale -- $270, $243 with My Best Buy Plus/Total, was $370 Smart Home Needing a little help around the house is a good reason to embrace the conveniences of modern technology. A robot vacuum makes a good helping hand, and iRobot’s Roomba lineup is one of the most popular. Now is also a great time to shop, as robot vacuum deals are hot with early Black Friday sales providing some good discounts. A lot can go into determining how to choose a robot vacuum, but if you know what you need and a Roomba fits the bill, these are the best Black Friday Roomba deals available right now.
iRobot Roomba 694 — $250, was $275 The Roomba robot vacuum lineup is known the world over for its great design and smart capabilities, and the iRobot Roomba 694 is one of the most popular models available. It features a clean, minimal design that remains unobtrusive even when the Roomba is hard at work. It has the ability to dock itself automatically for recharging when its battery is low, and has many features that are often associated with more expensive robot vacuums. As you’ll find in many of the best robot vacuums, adaptive navigation sensors keep the Roomba 694 going amidst you and your household objects, and it easily navigates around things such as furniture, feet, and even pets.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
