Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Reviews Hands on: Dyson Supersonic hair dryer Dyson’s quiet Supersonic hair dryer blows hot air and costs $400 By Julian Chokkattu Close The Supersonic produced a nice shine, but it didn’t feel any different from using a normal hairdryer. Still, it’s nice knowing your hair isn’t getting damaged.
Dyson’s new hair dryer is no joke. It’s pretty, doesn’t look like a regular hair dryer, is quieter than most, and it’s purportedly better for your hair. The stickler? It’s $400.
The company announced the Supersonic back in April, but the hair dryer is only making it to market now. It’s launching exclusively at Sephora stores on Friday, but it will make its way to other retailers later this month. It’s available for purchase right now on Dyson’s website.
Best hair dryer deals: Conair, Shark and Revlon starting at $10 The best hair dryers Dyson is known for its vacuums, but the company seems to have an affinity for products that can suck or blow out air. It’s spent four years, more than 100 engineers, and nearly $67 million to develop the Supersonic.
Dyson spent $56,000 buying real hair — about 1010 miles of natural hair and “created a worldwide shortage in the process.” The point was to vigorously test the different ways heat impacts hair, and the different ways people dried their hair.
The end result? The company went out of its way to “rethink” the hair dryer.
So how does it work? So what makes the Supersonic unique, and apparently worth a $400 price tag? There’s an “intelligent heat control” system that helps protect your hair from heat damage. That’s thanks to the glass-bead thermistor and the microprocessor.
Hair damaged from excessive heat loses its shine, and that’s what the Supersonic is trying to prevent.
The thermistor checks the heat leaving the Supersonic 20 times per second. If it’s getting hot enough to damage your hair, it relays that information to the microprocessor. This processor adjusts the “double-stack heating element” to protect your hair, so you don’t have to worry about scorching your locks.
There’s also a digital motor in the handle, which Dyson calls the V9. It spins up to 110,000 times a minute and has one inaudible frequency. The addition of extra blades in the motor and acoustic silencers help reduce the sound the Supersonic emits.
Does it work? You’ll be pleased to know that the Dyson Supersonic does dry your hair. Jokes aside, it’s a well-built, ergonomic hair dryer that powerfully blows out hot air with quite a bit of range.
There are four buttons all together. The two on the circular part of the hair dryer adjust the airflow and the heat. Push up the button on the handle below to turn the Supersonic on, and if you press and hold the last button, you’ll get a blast of cooler air.
Hair damaged from excessive heat loses its shine, and that’s what the Supersonic is trying to prevent.
It certainly is a lot quieter than hair dryers we’re used to, but it’s far from silent. There’s still a decent amount of noise coming out of the Supersonic, but what Dyson has done to minimize it is impressive.
Dyson also includes three magnetic attachments for the Supersonic: a smoothing nozzle, for drying; a styling concentrator for “fast, precise airflow for controlled styling”; and a diffuser, to disperse airflow and reduce frizz for people with curly hair. These magnetic attachments are pretty neat, as it’s incredibly easy to take them on and off quickly.
The Supersonic produced a nice shine, but it didn’t feel any different from using a normal hairdryer. Still, it’s nice knowing your hair isn’t getting damaged.
Warranty information The Supersonic comes with a limited two-year warranty for parts and labor from the date of purchase. Dyson offers a 30-day money back guarantee if you don’t like the hair dryer.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends The warranty covers original defects from the manufacturing process, and it’s only valid if you use the machine in the country you bought it from.
It does not cover damage from electrical outages, power surges, the weather, lack of maintenance, and normal wear and tear.
Conclusion Dyson’s launch in New York had all the hoopla of an Apple event. Even the packaging and look of the device really goes to show the lengths the company is going to try and make owning the Supersonic “cool.” It certainly is a novelty, and if you’re ever seen in public using it you’ll get some questions. But how often are you using a hair dryer in public? Even if you wanted to take it out of the house, it’s tricky thanks to the lack of a carrying case.
Regardless, the Supersonic is a sleek-looking hair dryer, one that Dyson says is safe for your hair. If that’s important for you, perhaps it’s worth it. But at $400, it’s clear this hair dryer isn’t meant for the average consumer.
Highs Well-built Responsive buttons and useful LED notifiers Protects hair from heat damage Comes with three magnetic attachments for different hair styles Lows Expensive A carrying case should come included Editors' Recommendations Best Dyson Corrale deals: Save $100 on the hair straighteners Best Dyson deals: Save on hair dryer, fans and cordless vacuums Dyson’s new hair straightener reduces damage to your locks at a premium price Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
