Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best cordless vacuums By Erika Rawes and Gia Liu Close If you’ve ever wanted to get rid of the cord when you’re vacuuming, you’re in luck. A cordless vacuum gives you more flexibility when cleaning. Cordless vacuums are typically lightweight and easy to maneuver. You’re not tethered by a power cord and don’t have to stop vacuuming to switch to a different outlet.
Tineco Pure One S12 Shark Wandvac System Dyson V11 Torque Drive Shark Rocket Cordless Bissell Air Ram 1984 Dyson V8 Absolute Cordless Stick Vacuum Roborock H6 You might be wondering which features are worth investing in, which manufacturer makes the best cordless vacuums, and what kind of battery life you can expect from a cordless vacuum. Here’s a list of our top picks for 2021 and what you can expect from them.
Looking for a different type of vacuum? Check out our picks for the best robot vacuums and best vacuums for pet hair to help you find the right model. Also, look for the best vacuum deals.
The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart home devices for 2023 The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces Tineco Pure One S12 Image used with permission by copyright holder Tineco’s Pure One S12 is loaded with smart features and intelligent engineering. The S12 comes as a few different models, including the Pure One S12 Plus, Pure One S12 M, Pure One S12 Lite, and the Pure One S12V, but we like the regular Tineco Pure One S12 because it offers an ideal combination of features at a relatively reasonable price point (although all of the Pure One S12 models are somewhat pricey).
The S12 has an iLoop dust sensor, so it adjusts the suction power in real time based on how much dirt and debris it detects on your floors. This helps the unit preserve battery power. The S12 is able to get up to 100 minutes of run time, and it comes with two lithium-ion batteries. The S12 is extremely quiet and lightweight, operating at 71 decibels and weighing less than seven pounds. It has powerful suction (150 watts), and it picks up tiny particles on the first pass.
The Wi-Fi-connected vacuum includes a companion app, where you can manage your cleaning. It also has an LED screen, which displays battery level, power and Wi-Fi status, and more. The Tineco Pure One S12 comes with loads of helpful attachments, including a crevice tool, another long and flexible crevice tool, a soft dusting brush, a 2-in-1 dusting brush, a mini power brush, an LED multi-task power brush, two batteries, two pre-filters, and a dual charging wall-mounted dock. There’s even a filter self-cleaning tool.
Shark Wandvac System Amazon Shark’s WandVac system gives you both a cordless vacuum and a handheld all-in-one. The system comes with a charging station, a handheld vacuum, an attachment that turns the handheld into a full-length cordless vacuum, and plenty of cleaning attachments for pet hair and dust. One thing we really like about the WandVac system is that because it breaks down into smaller pieces, it hides away nicely in a corner and you barely notice it when it’s on the charging station.
The lightweight unit is easy to carry all around the home, and it weighs only 5.8 pounds. In spite of its light weight, it still has plenty of power, with HyperVelocity Accelerated suction and PowerFins on the brush roll to grab dirt, hair, and debris without the brush getting tangled. The battery doesn’t last as long as some other cordless vacuums we’ve tested, but the utility offered makes up for the shorter battery life. You can even vacuum your car with the handheld, or take it all around your home and clean tables, couches, and corners. Plus, the WandVac system comes in fun colors like gold, rose gold, cove, thistle, and sage in addition to the basic slate color.
Dyson V11 Torque Drive Image used with permission by copyright holder The Dyson V11 Torque Drive offers exceptional performance and stellar suction power in a durable cordless unit. The V11 Torque Drive boasts a 125,000 rpm motor that delivers an exceptional 185 air watts of power (when set to Boost mode). It picks up even the tiniest dirt and debris, as it generates 79,000g of force to capture microscopic particles like pollen and bacteria.
For something exceptionally powerful, the V11 Torque Drive also has the smarts to detect surfaces and optimize its suction and run time. Need to empty the dust bin? The “point and shoot” mechanism is a super-easy process that hygienically rids the vacuum of dirt and debris. The V11 is quiet, too, as Dyson engineered the vacuum to absorb vibrations and dampen noise. This model comes with several accessories, including a wall mount, combination tool, crevice tool, mini motorized tool, and a mini soft dusting brush, making it easy to clean your home from top to bottom.
There are two main downsides to the V11 Torque Drive. The battery life (which maxes out at around 60 minutes), and the price. But even taking these factors into account, the Dyson V11 Torque Drive is still one of the best cordless vacuums out there.
Shark Rocket Cordless Image used with permission by copyright holder If you want a more affordable option, the Shark Rocket Cordless is light and powerful. It weighs around seven pounds, and it does a good job of sucking up large and small debris on both hardwood and carpets.
While you won’t get the same power as you’d get from a vacuum that’s three times the price, the Shark Rocket is powerful enough to keep floors clean of dust, dirt, and pet hair, and it does a great job at maintaining its suction. It also transforms into a hand vac, making it an ideal car vacuum and home vacuum.
Bissell Air Ram 1984 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Air Ram is a unique machine — it’s one of the more ergonomic units in its price range. It weighs about eight pounds, but it feels like it weighs less than one pound while you’re cleaning. It swivels and maneuvers around so smoothly as you vacuum, gliding over carpets, hardwood, and tile with ease.
Its 40-minute battery life is pretty good considering the price range, and the 22-volt lithium-ion battery is removable. You don’t have to bend over to power on the unit, as you press the power button with your foot. And, as you’re cleaning, you can lay the vacuum completely flat when you want to reach under furniture. The Bissell Air Ram 1984 has exceptional suction power, and its head has LED lights that illuminate the dirt, so you can grab it up with the multi-surface brush roller.
Dyson V8 Absolute Cordless Stick Vacuum Image used with permission by copyright holder The V8 Absolute is an excellent option for those who want a quality cordless vacuum from a well-known brand, but don’t want to pay for a newer model. This vacuum has a decent battery life (up to 40 minutes), so it’s a viable option for those who own large homes with many rooms to clean. If you’re efficient, you can probably get through your whole home in one go-around.
The vacuum only uses the battery when the unit is in suction mode, so the battery life won’t go down when the vacuum is standing idle. You can use the V8 to clean both hard floors and carpets, and the powerful suction and stiff nylon bristles can easily get rid of all the dirt, dust, pet hair, and cobwebs around the home. According to Dyson, the center of gravity is located in the grip, making the machine easier to maneuver. The Dyson V8 Absolute also has HEPA filtration, meaning it will pick up allergens in your home and is also sealed to ensure cleaner air.
Roborock H6 Image used with permission by copyright holder CES saw the premiere of the Roborock H6, a mighty cordless vacuum that includes every attachment you could ever need. It quickly traps dust, pet hair, and other particles instead of blowing them around and making a mess, and even lets you reach high places without straining yourself.
The H6 unit only weighs three pounds, but it includes a strong motor that maximizes suction at 25,000 pa. When you use the vacuum on eco-mode, you get up to an impressive 90 minutes of work from the machine. The five-stage filtration filters particles up as small as 0.3 microns, getting a deep-down clean on surfaces while clearing the air.
We found that the only issue is that the powerful suction pulls throw rugs right in, so you may want to avoid them — suction not being the worst problem to have in a vacuum.
Editors' Recommendations The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 Best robot mops of 2023 The best holiday smart lights The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 The best video doorbells for 2023 Buying Guides Buying Guides Smart Home The Arlo Pro 4 has long been one of the best outdoor security cameras, but that might be changing with the arrival of the Arlo Essential 2nd Gen. This refreshed camera supports up to 2K footage capture, offers a similar design to that of the Arlo Pro 4, and clocks in at a much lower price.
But should you rush out to replace your Arlo Pro 4 with the new Arlo Essential 2nd Gen? And if you're new to the market, which is the better purchase? Here's a closer look at both to help you find the right one for your smart home.
Pricing and monthly fees Smart Home If you're shopping for the best outdoor security cameras of 2023, you'll want to find something that's weatherproof, captures high-quality footage, and works well at night. It's also important to consider your budget and ongoing subscriptions that may be required to access premium features such as cloud saving and person detection.
Regardless of your budget, there's an outdoor security camera that'll fit your needs. From premium products crafted by Ring to budget-friendly options like those from Wyze, there are dozens of well-reviewed models that are perfect for protecting your home.
Smart Home Offering impressive video capture, easy installation processes, and an intuitive smartphone app, Arlo stands out as one of the best manufacturers of security cameras. Its catalog has grown a bit larger recently with the launch of its Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen -- but how does this new arrival stack up to the iconic Arlo Pro 4? Here's a look at the Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen and Arlo Pro 4 to help you determine which is best for your security system.
Pricing and monthly fees Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
