Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best smart locks for 2023 By Erika Rawes , John Velasco and Simon Sage Close The best smart locks of 2023 come from popular brands like Yale, Wyze, August, and Schlage, and they offer tons of cool features you won’t find on traditional deadbolts. From the ability to check the status of your lock remotely to being able to set up temporary profiles for guests, there’s a reason these smart home gadgets continue to grow in popularity.
Picking the right smart lock for your needs, however, is no small task. Not all smart locks are worthy of your time and money, and installing a bad smart lock could cause you plenty of headaches. Thankfully, there’s a product for every purpose. Whether you’re setting up a rental property, need something robust for a large family, or want to do away with your keys entirely, there’s bound to be a smart lock with your name on it.
Here's a look at the best smart locks of 2023, including full deadbolt replacements and deadbolt adapters. Our picks span plenty of price ranges too, making it easy to find something great for your front door that fits your budget.
More More More More More August August Wi-Fi Smart Lock The best smart lock Doesn't need a bridge Easy to install Auto unlock and lock feature Sturdy build Batteries aren't rechargable Sticks out from the door The fourth-generation August Smart Lock breaks free from the bonds of its predecessors’ need for a bridge to operate remotely. Thanks to its built-in Wi-Fi connection, the August Wi-Fi Smart Lock connects to your home’s wireless network without the need for a bridge or other additional hardware.
Beyond that, it’s one of the simplest smart locks to install and set up. Plus, it’s able to retain your existing lock — so you don’t need new keys. What’s impressive is that the company adds in the Wi-Fi connection, while shrinking the overall size of the lock. It is 45% smaller in volume and 20% slimmer, making it a sleek little lock, and comes in either silver or matte black plastic.
In addition to using the app to remotely operate the lock, the August Wi-Fi Smart Lock supports Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple’s Siri. Meaning that it integrates nicely with just about any smart home platform. There are also some advanced features that make it a premier offering, like virtual keys that work on a set schedule, and automatic lock/unlock as you approach or leave your home. Read our in-depth August Wi-Fi Smart Lock review.
More John Velasco / Digital Trends Level Touch The best smart lock for Apple Homekit Minimalist design Simple installation Convenient touch unlock Programmable NFC keycards used as backup Pricey cost Touch unlock won't work unless you leave home boundary There are very few smart locks that support Apple’s HomeKit. However, the best one for Apple’s smart home platform is none other than the Level Lock Touch.
First, it sports an unconventional design for a smart lock. There are no bulky keypads, nor is there an equally bulky component that goes over the deadbolt on the inside of the door. Instead, the Level Lock Touch looks like an ordinary lock — one that retains the appearance and styling of a traditional lock. What’s also neat about the smart lock is that you can interact with the Level Lock Touch by either tapping on the keyhole housing or using the included NFC-equipped keycards for opening and locking the lock.
Once it’s connected to HomeKit, you can ask Siri on your iOS device or HomePod speaker to unlock the door. It will also unlock itself automatically because it leverages GPS on your iPhone to set up a geofence around your home. All of these features make the Level Lock Touch the best lock for HomeKit. Read our in-depth Level Lock Touch review.
More Schlage Schlage Encode Plus The best smart lock for Alexa Works with Apple Home Key Easy installation Reliable Many features inaccessible via HomeKit Schlage has been around for quite some time — long before there was such a thing as a smart lock. But Schlage has now evolved into one of the best smart lock makers in the biz. The Schlage Encode Plus isn’t just a beautiful piece of hardware, it’s also a device that works well with Alexa, as well as a wide range of other third-party applications, including Amazon’s Cloud Cam, Key by Amazon, and Ring security products. You can also use it with the Schlage Home app.
More Lockly / Lockly Lockly Vision Elite The best smart lock for Airbnb Fingerprint sensor Good battery life bolstered by solar panel Wide-angle camera Expensive Subpar night vision Lockly already had a phenomenal offering with the Vision , but its follow-up model takes it one step further. The Lockly Vision Elite has everything that Airbnb hosts crave — from its ability to unlock via fingerprint, pin code, or even through a phone, there are plenty of options.
Guests that do plan on staying at your home or Airbnb residence can be given temporary key codes that they can punch into the touchscreen keypad when they arrive, which can also be made time-sensitive for additional security. Once their stay is complete, you can have another set of codes for the next guest.
Everything is tracked by the app, which can tell you the method that was used to unlock the lock — including if it’s the old fashion way with a key! What makes the Lockly Vision Elite even more appealing is its integrated video camera, which allows it to act a lot like a video doorbell camera.
 An integrated solar panel helps keep the lithium-ion batteries charged for the long haul, too.
Wyze Wyze Lock The best smart lock for DIY install Inexpensive Intuitive app Easy to install Easy to use You can't limit digital key access The app is a bit slow There’s nothing better than quick and painless. Wyze’s entire suite of smart home products — from lightbulbs to cameras — is designed for the DIY weekend warrior … and the Wyze Lock is no exception. Setup is just a matter of retrofitting your existing deadbolt. The Wyze hardware pops right onto the inside thumb latch, and installation necessitates nothing more than a screwdriver and working Wi-Fi.
With the Wyze app, you can lock and unlock the door from pretty much anywhere. For those not looking to whip their phone out every time they return home, there’s Auto Lock/Unlock. Once configured, the Wyze Lock detects your phone when you’re approaching the door, unlocking it so you can step in and then locking it behind you once you’re inside. We also love the Simple Sharing function, which lets you grant guests access to your home and log their entries and exits.
The Wyze Lock is now compatible with Alexa and Google Assistant, which means you can lock and unlock your door from the comfort of your couch. Assistant control is also great for those of us who would rather do our on-the-go unlocking with the Alexa or Google Home app. Read our in-depth Wyze Lock review.
More John Velaszco / Digital Trends Level Lock The best designed smart lock Gorgeous aesthetics Straightforward installation Better priced in Level's lineup Can't adjust geofencing settings Level is on a roll. After releasing its previous two smart locks, the Level Lock Bolt Edition and Touch Edition, its latest model sits right in the middle of the lineup. The Level Lock follows a similar minimalist design to its siblings while offering the same core features you’d expect in any smart lock. Unlike most smart locks, the Level Lock doesn’t have any clunky keypads for all to see — nor does it have a chunky deadbolt attached on the inside. Instead, the Level Lock looks like an ordinary door lock.
This design philosophy is at the heart of every lock from Level, so it manages to maintain the décor and appearance of your door. Beyond the contemporary design, the Level Lock features geofencing for auto-unlock, temporary passes to let guests access the lock, and even an auto-lock feature if you happen to forget to lock the door behind you.
Best of all, its price is much more accessible than the Level Lock Touch Edition. If you want an invisible smart lock, the Level Lock is no doubt the only one on the market to achieve this. Read our in-depth Level Lock review.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Kwikset Halo Touch The best smart lock for fingerprint access Simple installation Works every time Stores up to 100 fingerprints/50 users Durable Limited notifications Might be a little too security conscious Simplicity is a core fundamental quality for any gadget, but for a smart lock, nothing’s more aggravating than wasting time on unlocking it. That’s why the Kwikset Halo Touch is here to save you from that particular hassle. All you really need to unlock it is just a slight touch of your finger against its fingerprint sensor — much like what you get in today’s smartphones.
What’s impressive is that it’s spot on every time, ensuring that users have proper authorization. Some smart locks offer features like auto-unlock that will unlock the deadbolt as you approach, but they can fail. Kwikset’s Halo Touch works every time.
The Kwikset Halo Touch is still very much advanced, offering useful features such as auto-unlock, storage for up to 100 fingerprints, and a durable design. Read our in-depth Kwikset Halo Touch review.
More Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Yale Assure Lock 2 The best-looking smart lock Robust smartphone app Multiple available designs Gorgeous touchscreen Highly customizable performance Expensive Entry-level models lack important functionality Yale knows how to make a great lock, and the Assure Lock 2 proves it. Available in a wide variety of formats (including lockless and touchscreen), there are plenty of ways to customize this unique device.
One of the best formats includes a module that lets you access the door remotely, giving you peace of mind that you locked up before leaving for work. You can also create temporary passwords for guests, check out the activity history to see when it was last opened, or remotely open the door for a friend who is locked out.
But most importantly, it looks stunning – with premium materials and a slim design offering a decidedly modern aesthetic. It's also one of the few smart locks with a flash red variant, as the Yale x Pantone model in Viva Magenta brings a maximalist flair to your front door.
If you're an Apple user, you can spring for the Assure Lock 2 Plus , which offers Apple Home Key support. This allows you to use either or iPhone or Apple Watch to open the door without needing to enter your passcode. It costs a bit more (the Wi-Fi model is $290), but no doubt it's a cool feature.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Lockly Flex Touch Quick and easy installation Responsive fingerprint scanner Multiple ways to lock/unlock Simple but efficient app Bulky interior design No rechargeable battery Requires Wi-Fi adapter for mobile features If you’re a fan of smart locks but wish they had a more traditional appearance, consider checking out the Lockly Flex Touch. This smart home gadget forgoes the large touchscreen pads found on most smart locks, and instead uses a small fingerprint sensor to let you quickly and securely open (or lock) your front door.
You can also access the lock via Bluetooth using a smartphone app, which lets you track its history or set up unique user profiles for each member of your home.
Toss in support for traditional keys and the ability to power the unit with a 9V battery if it dies while you’re on vacation, and there’s a good chance the Lockly Flex Touch is a great fit for your home.
ULTRALOQ U-Bolt Pro Smart Lock Unique design Fingerprint scanner Remote access using smartphone app Doesn't work with HomeKit With a unique, cylindrical design, the ULTRALOQ U-Bolt Pro Smart Lock stands out in a crowded marketplace. Its keypad is splayed out around a central fingerprint scanner, giving you two easy ways to access your home. Hidden in the center is a keyhole – which is great for emergency access if your unit runs out of power.
Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa are both supported, though it’s lacking HomeKit support. You can, however, use your Apple Watch to unlock the door, which is a cool perk not seen on other devices in this price range. You can even enable an auto-lock feature, ensuring the door is secured once you’ve closed it.
There are tons of ways to customize the lock using its companion smartphone app, allowing you to set up guest profiles, unlock the door remotely, or check to see when the door was last locked or unlocked. If you don't need a smart lock with HomeKit support, this one deserves a closer look.
Frequently Asked Questions A traditional lock typically contains internal pins. When you insert the proper key, it puts the exact right amount of pressure on each pin until the lock opens. Smart locks are electronic, and they work using a keypad, touchpad, or other means.
This depends on the smart lock you purchase and your DIY skills. Some locks, like the August Smart Lock, retrofit over your existing deadbolt. This makes them incredibly easy to install and only takes about 10 minutes. Other locks require a bit more effort.
Smart locks typically have a corresponding app, which is compatible with Alexa, HomeKit, or one of the other voice assistants. This allows you to use voice commands like, “Alexa, lock the door,” or “Alexa, is my door locked?” To find out specific voice assistant compatibility, visit the manufacturer’s website.
As with any Wi-Fi-connected device, there’s always a small risk the device will be hacked if the user doesn’t take steps to protect themselves. However, there’s also a risk that someone can breach or pick a regular (non-smart) door lock.
Some smart locks work with a key and some don’t. Smart locks typically allow you to remotely control your lock via Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, or Z-wave. So, you can operate the lock without a key, and perhaps even when you’re away from your home.
Some smart locks, like the August Smart Lock, have geofencing. If you set up the geofencing feature, it can detect when you’re nearby and unlock the door when you approach.
A smart lock can help you to prevent or grant access to your home, and it acts as a barrier to entry. However, few smart locks (few good ones at least) have cameras, and a smart lock doesn’t provide the same features as a video doorbell, which acts as a sort of digital doorman.
If you want to use your compatible smart lock with Alexa or Google Assistant, you typically just need any Amazon Echo or Google Home speaker. You shouldn’t require a smart home Hub with most locks.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats The best Vitamix blender Black Friday deals — from just $125 Black Friday Deal: Grab Eureka NEW400 wet-dry vac for cleaning all spills [Sponsored] Amazon Best Products Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home If you want to bring your thermostat into the age of smart tech, it's highly recommended that you check out the Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals that are available for Black Friday. The discounts on the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat aren't expected to last long though, as stocks are already probably running low. If you need help looking for Black Friday deals involving either smart home device, and if you're having trouble deciding which one to go for, you'll get your answers below. To complete your smart home, check out Nest Black Friday deals and Ring Black Friday deals too.
Best Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals Different retailers have slashed the prices of the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat, so there's no shortage of options on where you want to purchase these smart home devices. However, so you can secure your Nest Thermostat quickly, we've rounded up our favorite picks below -- you'll still have to act fast though, as the offers may end at any moment.
Google Nest Thermostat -- Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
