Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best robot vacuum mop combo for 2023 By Keyan Riddick Close Owning a gadget that can automatically vacuum and mop your home is arguably one of the best ways to cut down on your weekly list of chores. Gone are the days of breaking out your mop and constantly emptying your dustbin – with robot vacuum-mop combos, much of your cleaning routine can be automated.
These useful little drones might all share a similar, circular design, but their cleaning prowess can vary greatly. And unless you know what you’re looking for, it’s difficult to figure out which one is better suited for your home than others. Thankfully, there are plenty of great options available in today's market. Here’s a look at the best robot vacuum mop combos of 2023, including picks for all budgets and home-cleaning needs.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More Roborock Roborock S8 Pro Ultra Best Overall Impressive vacuuming skills Mops and vacuums in a single run Automatically cleans and empties itself Easy-to-use smartphone app Mop only lifts up a few millimeters The Roborock S8 Pro Ultra is one of the most expensive robot vacuums on the planet – and for good reason. Not only can it vacuum and mop in a single run (thanks to a retractable mop head), but it can clean itself while docked. If the robot senses its mop is too dirty, it’ll head back to its charging station to get rinsed with water. It’ll also dry itself after each run, ensuring you don’t get any nasty odors from mold or mildew. It’s not cheap, but as far as fully automated robot vacuum and mop combos are concerned, it’s hard to top this.
Image used with permission by copyright holder iLife V5s Pro Budget Option Low-profile design Long battery life Affordable No auto-empty dock Manually switch cleaning tanks Every good product list has to have a budget option, and ours is the iLife V5s Pro 2. Something to note about the V5s Pro 2 is its super slim design, so it will clear the bottom of some low-rise furniture with ease.
For this cleaner, you have to change out the tank when switching from vacuuming to mopping and vice versa. However, it still has the smarts for each function to provide an excellent cleaning job.
Besides manually switching tanks when changing cleaning modes, the V5s Pro 2 doesn't have an auto-empty dock, which may be its greatest tragedy. If you're up to doing some manual labor when cleaning your home, then the iLife smart robot is for you. For under $200, it's good for your wallet too.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Shark AI VacMop Robot Best for Smaller Homes Works with smart assistant Auto switches mop and vacuum with different floor types Multiple preset modes Low battery life Have to switch cleaning tanks Even smaller homes need to be able to take advantage of automated smart home products, which is where the Shark AI VacMop Robot comes in. To have an all-in-one device that doesn't have too many features is a bit of a feat because you'll still want it to be efficient, just not overkill.
The Shark VacMop has multiple preset modes that you can use to switch from vacuuming, sonic mopping, and a deep clean mode. These modes are assisted with an AI laser navigation to ensure it isn't just bouncing off the walls or running into objects.
With a lower price point and runtime, this smart robot cleaner is perfect for small apartment dwellers. What's even better is that the Shark AI VacMop robot is routinely available online.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Narwal Freo Auto Mopping and Washing Robot with AI DirtSense Best technology DirtSense self-detecting and self-cleaning Unique mop pad design for superior cleaning Great for all floor types LCD display station Uses a proprietary cleaning solution What’s really helpful about Narwal Freo is that it takes care of itself, thanks to its DirtSense system. It offers both mopping and vacuuming support, for all floor types, but what helps it stand out is that the Freo intelligently detects how dirty the mops are when returning to its station, and sanitizes them before the next cleaning. In combination with the unique mop design, it’s capable of delivering exceptional cleaning support versus comparable systems. The dual spinning and scrubbing mops provide much-needed pressure to lift stubborn messes, and the microfiber material and curved triangle movement ensures there are no gaps when making a pass.
Moreover, while it’s cleaning your home and floors it can detect just how dirty the room is. This allows it to make multiple passes, if necessary, to thoroughly clean rather than doing a single, quick pass and returning to its dock. It identifies the type of floor beneath too, including wood, tile, and carpet – adjusting its cleaning power to match, protecting wood when needed or applying strong scrubbing for optimal cleaning. An auto water exchange system ensures you don’t have to worry about filling the water or emptying dirty tanks. It works like a washing machine to remove dirty water and keep the fresh water supply topped up – it connects directly to a water pipeline.
A built-in Smart Swing corner trap can gather the dust and debris which often hides in corners and near baseboards. The function is periodically activated to keep everything as clean as can be, or you can activate it yourself within the Narwal App. Plus, Auto Mop Washing, Auto Cleaning Solution Dispensing and Auto Dual Hot Air Drying features cover most of the maintenance for you.
Speaking of the app, you can use it to schedule cleanings, create customized cleaning routines, manage and view performance reports, and adjust various settings. The Dynamic Cleaning Report feature delivers a short video with cleaning details about each of your rooms, including the cleaning duration, areas covered, and the number of times the system cleaned – if it cleans more than once. It’s a new take on hands-free cleaning that works to remove you from the equation even more. You’ll spend less time micromanaging the vacuum and more time doing what you love.
Ecovacs Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni Best for Pet Owners Sleek design Powerful mopping pads Enough suction for thick carpet Mop cleaning with hot water and hot air Not ideal for thick carpets The Deebot T20 Omni is Ecovacs answer to the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra. The big difference here is that it uses both warm water and warm air to clean its mops, providing a great post-run clean that ensures the mop stays clean while idle. It also means you rarely need to get your hands dirty. Toss in an ultra-powerful vacuum, a dustbin that holds weeks’ worth of debris, and impeccable navigation skills, and you’ve got a robot vacuum and mop combo that deserves a spot on your shopping list. It’s not cheap, but few models offer the sort of automation found in the latest from Ecovacs.
More iRobot Roomba Combo j7+ Robot Vacuum and Mop Best for fully automated cleanings Mop and vacuum without manual input Sleek design Impressive suction and mopping skills Expensive Yes – the Roomba Combo j7+ is ridiculously expensive. But if you’re looking to truly automate your vacuuming and mopping routines, it doesn’t get much better than this. Not only does the Combo j7+ give you the standard room navigation software and upscale designs synonymous with Roomba, but this innovative robot can actually go from mopping to vacuuming without any manual input. Thanks to a mophead that stows away when moving to carpet, it’s capable of cleaning your entire home without you lifting a finger.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Bissell SpinWave Robot Best at mopping Simple vacuum, simple interface Dry vacuums and mops Low profile fits under most furniture Easy to change/empty the dustbin No bells and whistles Inefficient travel routes Bissell is an established brand with a stellar reputation, so it should come as no surprise that its SpinWave Robot is an exceptional robot vacuum mop combo. Offering up to 1500 Pa of suction, the premium device is capable of cleaning even the dirtiest of carpets. What’s more impressive, however, is its mopping skills. The device is equipped with two massive cleaning pads that rotate and scrub while in motion – providing you with a deep clean across tile, LVP, hardwood, and other surfaces. Toss in soft surface avoidance to prevent it from mucking up your carpets while mopping, and you’ve got a device that performs well above its price tag.
Frequently Asked Questions Yes, robot vacuums with mops are worth it because they help save on appliance space and automate cleaning floors. Some people believe having dedicated products are better, which may or may not be accurate. However, having the convenience of both in one device can't be beaten.
Yes, but it's advisable to use a higher power setting if it's available. Some mops even recommend certain power settings for cement. You can also switch to light mopping levels for more delicate surfaces like hardwood, where you may not want the bot to wear away at a coating or varnish.
Prices are generally comparable. The best options will cost beyond $1,000, while budget models are available for a couple hundred dollars. However, robot mops take more effort to manage and clean, and you'll have to pay for new pads and cleaner from time to time.
Generally, you'll have to switch between mop modes and vacuum modes manually with a switch or app. The bots are smart, but they don't decide when you want to start mopping. While in mop mode, they have sensors and settings that will help them avoid carpets and rugs, etc.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Best robot mops of 2023 This self-emptying robot vacuum is discounted from $499 to $198 The best video doorbells for 2023 Usually $399, this Shark cordless vacuum is on sale for $198 Appliances Best Products Robot Vacuums Smart Home If you think you need help in keeping your floors clean, you may want to think about taking advantage of robot vacuum deals. You won't even have to spend much, because there are offers like Walmart's $120 discount for the Shark ION RV754. This brings the robot vacuum's price down to just $129, which is nearly half its original price of $249. We're not sure how much time is remaining on this bargain though, so if you're interested, you should complete the purchase now to be able to pocket the savings.
Why you should buy the Shark ION RV754 robot vacuum The best robot vacuums make cleaning your floors very convenient, and that's something you'll also get from the Shark ION RV754. You'll be able to use either the SharkClean app on your smartphone, or voice commands through smart home devices that are powered by Amazon's Alexa or Google Assistant, to initiate the cleaning process. Once it starts, it can run for up to 120 minutes before it needs to go back to its charging station, and with its onboard sensors -- which are among the features to consider in our guide on how too choose a robot vacuum -- it can avoid falling down stairs and bumping into furniture.
Smart Home If you're shopping for the best outdoor security cameras of 2023, you'll want to find something that's weatherproof, captures high-quality footage, and works well at night. It's also important to consider your budget and ongoing subscriptions that may be required to access premium features such as cloud saving and person detection.
Regardless of your budget, there's an outdoor security camera that'll fit your needs. From premium products crafted by Ring to budget-friendly options like those from Wyze, there are dozens of well-reviewed models that are perfect for protecting your home.
Smart Home Adding a robot vacuum to your home is a great way to automate your cleaning. These nifty devices will clean your floors with little to no manual input -- freeing up your time for more exciting endeavors. Some are even capable of emptying their own dustbin or pull double duty as a mop. Not all robot vacuums are created equal, however, and finding the best robot vacuums takes a bit of digging.
The first thing you'll need to do when searching for a robot vacuum is set a budget. Robot vacuums run the gamut from a few hundred bucks to well over $1,000. Many of the best robot vacuums cost at least $500, and going any lower could result in poor performance or the need to constantly interact with your device (such as to empty its dustbin, untangle it from furniture, or help it back to its dock).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
