Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best robot vacuums with mapping technology By Michael Bizzaco Close Who doesn't love a good robot vacuum? Tailor-made for the never-resting go-getters and those who hate carting around an upright vac, robot vacs use sensors and other algorithmic tools to seamlessly navigate throughout the many rooms of our homes, spending just the right amount of time in each space to get the carpets, hardwoods, and tiling nice and clean. When it comes to navigational functions, a set of sensors does a decent job at moving your bot around, but there's nothing better than a vac equipped with mapping technology.
Whether in the form of advanced LiDAR laser-scanning , onboard 3D cameras, brand-specific navigational tools, or a combination of all three, map-making robot vacs bypass traditional infrared cues for real-time, interactive, object-avoiding cleanups. The results are quite astonishing, and there are a number of map-ready robot vacs to choose from.
To help you pick the bot that's best for your home, we've put together this roundup of the best robot vacuums with mapping technology, considering criteria like cleaning features, home security, and overall battery life.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Nick Mokey/Digital Trends Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra The best overall Self-emptying, self-cleaning Simple setup Quiet Great mopping performance Decent obstacle avoidance Lackluster pet hair pickup on carpet Large dock Why you should buy it : You want a map-making robot vac to beat all map-making robot vacs — plain and simple.
Who it's for : Those who expect the deepest and most efficient cleaning from their robot vacuum.
Why we chose the Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra : Roborock doesn't cut any corners when it comes to designing some of the most powerful and reliable robot vacuums on the market, and the almighty S7 MaxV Ultra is a testament to the brand's high-impact product line.
In terms of mapping technology, the MaxV Ultra is equipped with a Precision LiDAR navigation system for creating blueprints of the floors and rooms of your homes that the vac uses to navigate, clean, and avoid certain areas of the domicile. That's on top of Roborock's ReactiveAI 2.0 Obstacle Avoidance system.
Using an onboard RGB camera and structured 3D light scanning, ReactiveAI 2.0 allows the MaxV Ultra to recognize and avoid common household objects, including things like furniture, sneakers, laptop charge cables, and more.
The MaxV Ultra also delivers up to 5,100Pa of suction power, Ultrasonic Carpet Detection for automatically switching between vacuuming and mopping, and voice assistant compatibility with Alexa, Google Home, and Siri Shortcuts.
Yes, it's one of the most expensive vacs in this roundup, but in terms of performance, features, and endurance, it's also our favorite option.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Neato Botvac D10 The best for battery life Up to 300 minutes of runtime Intuitive LaserSmart mapping tech D-shaped design is ideal for nooks and crannies Powerful HEPA filtration No camera A little finicky during initial setup Why you should buy it : The Neato Botvac D10 delivers a map-powered cleaning experience like no other and is capable of operating for up to 300 minutes.
Who it's for : Homeowners with large residences, complete with multiple floors and numerous rooms.
Why we chose the Neato Botvac D10 : While it's incredible to have a robot vacuum that tackles a daily sweep using algorithmic 3D blueprints of your home, the bot isn't of much use if it's constantly returning to its charging dock during a scheduled cleanup. For the biggest domiciles of our readership, there's the Neato Botvac D10, an impressive map-making bot that can keep cleaning for up to 300 minutes! That's up to 2,700 square feet of total cleaning on a single charge. Keep in mind that this number is going to vary based on what suction modes the D10 is set to, but when you consider that most robot vacs average about 120 minutes of runtime, over double the typical metric isn't too shabby.
In terms of mapping technology, the Botvac D10 uses Neato's LaserSmart SLAM Technology with LiDAR for creating those laser-guided snapshots of your home.
These individual maps are logged in the MyNeato app, too, allowing you to customize the D10's cleaning schedule, create Cleaning Zones and No-Go spaces, and monitor the remaining battery and current whereabouts of your dutiful D10.
John Velasco / Digital Trends iRobot Roomba j7+ The best cleaning tech Good job at avoiding wires Lower-profile self-emptying base Solid all-around cleaning Efficiently cleans in zigzag pattern Deep carpet cleaning performance is lacking Somewhat loud while vacuuming Why you should buy it : iRobot is a tried-and-true name in the world of robot vacuums, and the Roomba j7+ is one of the best when it comes to cleaning features.
Who it's for : Roomba devotees and households that require a robot vac with intelligent and adaptive cleaning tools and long-lasting performance.
Why we chose the iRobot Roomba j7+ : Roomba robot vacuums are constant chart-toppers in the world of vacuums, and for a number of reasons. A steadfast name in the robot vac sector, iRobot ensures each and every Roomba is designed and engineered with an array of cleaning features, from powerful brushes and motors to adaptive object avoidance systems.
The Roomba j7+ delivers some of the best cleaning features we've ever seen from iRobot.
 On the mapping end of things, the j7+ uses Roomba's Imprint Smart Mapping and PrecisionVision Navigation to build and store vac-friendly snapshots of all the rooms and floors of your home that the j7+ then uses to navigate its environment.
That's on top of Dirt Detect, which instructs the j7+ to clean dirtier parts of your home more thoroughly, seasonal and personalized cleaning suggestions, two multisurface brushes for tackling the toughest messes, and handy app controls for the most customizable cleaning experience.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Eufy RoboVac X8 Hybrid The best for pet hair Powerful Twin-Turbine suction tech 180-minute runtime Intuitive companion app Vacuum-mop hybrid No camera Mopping is only mediocre Why you should buy it : When it comes to tackling pet hair and other messes, the Eufy RoboVac X8 Hybrid is equipped to handle animal detritus quickly and efficiently.
Who it's for : Pet owners with four-legged friends that shed a ton.
Why we chose the Eufy Robovac X8 Hybrid : When it comes to any kind of vacuuming job, one of the toughest and most abundant messes to tackle is pet hair — especially for homes with multiple cats and dogs. But with its Twin-Turbine suction technology, UltraPack Dust Compression for optimized debris storage, and 180-minute runtime, Eufy's Robovac X8 Hybrid is one of the best robot vacs for tackling any kind of pet mess.
Billed as a hybrid model because it's capable of switching between vacuuming and mopping modes in a pinch, the X8 uses Eufy's iPath Laser Navigation system to effortlessly navigate your home, avoiding obstacles and stair drops along the way. That's on top of its onboard AI Map 2.0 Technology, a blueprint-building tool that the vac references as it sweeps and mops your residence.
And with all maps loaded into the Eufy app for customization, you'll be able to assign cleaning duties, create No-Go boundaries, and adjust vacuum settings on the go. There's even built-in support for Alexa and Google Assistant, allowing you to fire up the X8 using quick and easy voice commands.
John Velasco / Digital Trends Samsung Jet Bot AI+ The best for home security Home security patrol feature works well More efficient cleaning performance Good at avoiding obstacles Minimal disposal with self-emptying system Pricey cost Hefty design Why you should buy it : Those who want the most advanced robot vac available currently.
Who it's for : Large households that require an intelligent robot vac that can also provide some added security features.
Why we chose the Samsung Jet Bot AI+ : Samsung may not be best known for its small lineup of robot vacuums, but in terms of mapping and home monitoring technology, the incredible Jet Bot AI+ is one of the best vacs to buy if you're looking to keep tabs on the crib while you're away for the weekend.
Behind the scenes, Samsung's LiDAR mapping and Jet AI Object Recognition are the navigational appendages running the show. The former takes a detailed scan of your entire residence, storing the maps of each room and floor in the Samsung SmartThings app for cleaning customizations and vacuum controls. The latter makes use of the Jet Bot's onboard 3D camera for steering clear of furniture, decor, and the many parts of your home that shouldn't be vacuumed.
We also love that the 3D camera doubles as a security lens using Samsung's Home Monitoring feature. With the SmartThings app, you'll be able to view real-time footage from the cam, giving you a good sense of just how efficiently the vac is cleaning, while granting you some peace of mind while you're away from home.
On top of its medley of impressive cleaning and filtration features, the Jet Bot AI+ also comes with an automatic disposal system, allowing the vac to deposit debris into the HEPA-guarded charge dock and dirt tank when the vac's internal dust tank is full.
More Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Waterpik Black Friday deals on water flossers and toothbrushes The best Vitamix blender Black Friday deals — from just $125 The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best Black Friday washer and dryer bundle deals happening now Best Products Robot Vacuums Smart Home Ring has made some of the most popular tech for the smart home over the last decade or so, with the Ring Video Doorbell becoming a staple of home security. But Ring makes a lot of tech products for around the house, and with Black Friday around the corner, a lot of it is already starting to be discounted. Some of the best early Black Friday deals are on products made by Ring, and we’ve tracked down some of the best deals on Ring products you can find for Black Friday.
Check out Nest Black Friday deals and Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals for similar discounts.
Best Ring Doorbell Black Friday deals Smart Home The wait is finally over because Black Friday deals are now online, bringing discounts on all kinds of home appliances -- including vacuums. Whether you're planning to purchase an upright vacuum, a robot vacuum, or a cordless vacuum, you won't find any shortage of bargains, though we understand that the sheer number of offers may look overwhelming. To help you decide what to buy, we've rounded up the best Black Friday vacuum deals that you can purchase right now, which should give you the advantage over other shoppers. Hurry up, as stocks are probably selling quickly.
Best Black Friday vacuum deals An upright vacuum is still one of the most popular options if you want a cleaning device to pick up all kinds of dirt, debris, and pet hair. You're going to have to deal with a cord, but most people are probably used to them by now and it's a small price to pay for consistent power. Retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart are offering discounted prices for upright vacuums from different brands, so whether you're on a tight budget or you're willing to splurge on one with all the bells and whistles, you'll surely find a deal that catches your attention.
Smart Home With all the Black Friday deals going on at the moment, this is the perfect time to buy yourself a home improvement. We all hate having to vacuum so often so that's why a robot vacuum is such a tempting proposition. Right now, there are some fantastic Black Friday vacuum deals around so you can save big on the best way to clean your home with minimal effort. Keep reading and you'll see all the great deals we've found, including major brands like Roomba and Shark Black Friday deals, along with the best robot vacuums.
Best Shark robot vacuum Black Friday deals Shark is a respectable name in the robot vacuum world with one of its models featuring among our look at the best robot vacuum and mop combos. Alongside Shark is the Ninja brand which is a great indicator of the quality of all its products. Shark makes many different robot vacuums covering different price ranges and needs, so there's generally something for everyone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
