Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Blink Outdoor 4 vs. Blink Outdoor 3: Which is the better security camera? By Jon Bitner Close Blink recently added the Outdoor 4 camera to its catalog, usurping the older Outdoor 3 as the go-to outdoor security camera to protect your home. But if you already own an Outdoor 3, is an investment in the Outdoor 4 worth it? And if you’re shopping for your first outdoor camera, should you opt for the more expensive Outdoor 4 or save a few bucks by purchasing the Outdoor 3? Video quality and cost Feature and spec list Monthly fees and what you get Ease of use Who should upgrade to the Blink Outdoor 4? From video quality and night vision to ease of use and pricing, here’s a look at the Outdoor 4 and Outdoor 3 to help you decide which is best for your smart home.
Video quality and cost Blink The Blink Outdoor 4 films in 1080p and costs $120. The Blink Outdoor 3 also films in 1080p and costs just $100 (though it’s often on sale for much less). It’s worth noting, however, that the Blink Outdoor 4 uses a wider 143-degree field of view, compared to the 110 degrees of the Outdoor 3. This allows it to capture more of your property.
How to add Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit Best Arlo Black Friday deals: Save on security cameras and bundles The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 Winner: Blink Outdoor 4 Feature and spec list Blink The Blink Outdoor 4 and Blink Outdoor 3 share many of the same specs. This includes a two-year battery life, the ability to view a live stream of your property, two-way audio, and support for Alexa.
Blink made a few changes to the Outdoor 4 that give it a leg up on the older model, the most notable of which is the aforementioned 143-degree field of view. The Outdoor 4 also benefits from improved motion detection and dual-zone motion alerts, as well as person detection when subscribed to a Blink plan. Its infrared night vision is also a bit more crisp than it is on the outgoing model.
Winner: Blink Outdoor 4 Monthly fees and what you get Blink Both the Blink Outdoor 4 and Blink Outdoor 3 are made better by subscribing to a Blink Plan.
 Joining the Blink Basic Plan costs $3 per month or $30 per year and unlocks features such as live view recording, video sharing, and photo capture. On the Blink Outdoor 4, this also unlocks person detection.
Winner: Tie Ease of use John Velasco / Digital Trends The Blink Outdoor 4 and Outdoor 3 follow the same installation process. First, you’ll need to create a Blink account and download the Blink app to your smartphone.
 Next, you must plug in the included Sync Module, before finally setting up your camera using the instructions provided by the smartphone app.
Installation is simple, but using your cameras is arguably easier. Both are controlled with the Blink smartphone app, which is intuitive and powerful. It might take some digging to use advanced features (such as setting up motion zones), but checking your history and jumping into a live feed is simple across both devices.
Winner: Tie Who should upgrade to the Blink Outdoor 4? There’s no doubt that the Blink Outdoor 4 is a better smart outdoor camera than the older Blink Outdoor 3, but not everyone should feel compelled to make the upgrade. In fact, if you’ve recently purchased the Outdoor 3, there’s not much of a reason to swap it out for the Outdoor 4. Both products work incredibly well — and unless you really need that added coverage from the 143-degree field of view, there’s not a good reason to upgrade.
However, if you’re looking to purchase your very first outdoor camera (or want to upgrade from an older device), the Outdoor 4 is a much wiser purchase than the Outdoor 3. Since both products are often on sale, you can typically snag an Outdoor 4 for just a few bucks more than the Outdoor 3. At the time of writing, the Outdoor 4 is listed at $72 on Amazon, while the Outdoor 3 is $60. All the additional features found on the Outdoor 4 are more than worth the extra $12. But even if you pay full price, there’s no denying the Outdoor 4 is simply a more compelling product than the outgoing Outdoor 3.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? This is the single best early Black Friday home security camera deal Home Security Versus Smart Home As part of Best Buy's early Black Friday deals, there are some steep discounts on all kinds of security camera systems including those from Arlo, Blink, and Ring. With so many security camera deals available, we recommend clicking the button below to see the options for yourself. After all, you know exactly what you're looking for, right? If you don't, there's no need to worry as we're here to make some recommendations to guide you on the right path. Let's take a look at them.
What to shop for in the Best Buy security camera system sale One name that consistently stands out among the best home security cameras world is Arlo. That's why we'd strongly recommend checking out the Smart Home Indoor security cameras have a host of uses around a home or business. They can watch for intruders, keep an eye on pets, serve as baby monitors, help guide guests, and generally be on the lookout for anything unusual. If you’re interested in an indoor cam that can do it all, these are the top smart options from the best brands on the market! Smart Home If you live somewhere where you're constantly worried about your own security and you just want your own piece of mind, buying a high-end security camera is really worth it. Not only does it give you better overall visibility of your home and property, it will also have some extra features that will make like convenient for you. That's even more so the case with something like the Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight camera bundle that's going on sale at Best Buy right now.
Inside the bundle, you'll find three Arlo Pro 4 cameras, four rechargeable batteries, and a recharging station that can handle two batteries at a time. That means you can essentially have round-the-clock coverage without having to worry about taking a camera offline to charge it. Even better, while the bundle usually goes for $600, Best Buy has massively discounted it down to $300, making it a steal and one of the best security camera deals you're likely going to see for a while.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
