Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to fix a Ring doorbell that won’t chime By Jon Bitner Close When working as expected, Ring video doorbells are a great addition to most smart homes. Offering just about everything you’d find on a traditional doorbell, plus the addition of video alerts and customizable settings, it’s easy to see why they’re so popular. However, every so often, Ring doorbells will misbehave and stop working as intended – and one of the most common issues is that your Ring video doorbell won’t chime properly.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Ring doorbell Rings smartphone app Screwdriver Thankfully, most fixes to this problem are simple, although the actions you’ll need to take will vary based on the root cause of the issue. Here’s a closer look at why your Ring video doorbell may not be chiming, along with ways to fix the problem.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to fix a Ring video doorbell that won’t chime.
The first step to troubleshooting a Ring video doorbell that won’t chime is determining if your home has a battery-powered or wired doorbell. Battery-powered doorbells are not capable of chiming your internal chime. Instead, you’ll need to use the Ring Chime Pro or Ring Chime kit to transmit the chime into your home. Alternatively, you can have a notification appear on your smartphone. If you're working with a battery-powered doorbell that won't chime your Chime Kit, check the charge on your video doorbell and try again.
If you have a wired Ring video doorbell, then it can sync with the chime in your home to let you know when your doorbell rings. However, if this isn’t working as intended, you’ll need to follow these troubleshooting steps.
Step 1: First, check the physical chime inside your home. After removing the cover, look for loose wires or anything that isn’t wound tight. Poor connections at the chime are often responsible for your problem, and simply tightening these will fix the issue.
Step 2: The next possible issue is that your doorbell is no longer connected to your Wi-Fi network. Verify your internet is active, then dive into the Ring app to check your connection status.
Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell: Which is best? Step 3: If none of the above worked, you’ll want to double-check your installation. Specific installation instructions should be included with each Ring product. Walk through each step and verify they’ve all been performed correctly. Unfortunately, a single wrong step can cause your doorbell to have trouble syncing with your chime.
Step 4: Cold weather can also cause issues with your Ring video doorbell and its ability to activate your indoor chime. If the temperatures are below freezing, it might be worth waiting for the weather to warm up, then checking out the troubleshooting steps listed above.
Step 5: As a last resort, consider contacting an electrician. It’s entirely possible that you have a worn-out doorbell transformer and need a replacement, or you’re using a chime that isn’t supported by Ring. In both cases, a professional should be able to help.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? How to add Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit The best video doorbells for 2023 Wyze Video Doorbell v2 vs. Wyze Video Doorbell Pro Arlo Essential Video Doorbell just had its price slashed from $150 to $100 Home Security How-To Guides Video Doorbells Smart Home As part of Best Buy's early Black Friday deals, there are some steep discounts on all kinds of security camera systems including those from Arlo, Blink, and Ring. With so many security camera deals available, we recommend clicking the button below to see the options for yourself. After all, you know exactly what you're looking for, right? If you don't, there's no need to worry as we're here to make some recommendations to guide you on the right path. Let's take a look at them.
What to shop for in the Best Buy security camera system sale One name that consistently stands out among the best home security cameras world is Arlo. That's why we'd strongly recommend checking out the Smart Home One of the best robot vacuum deals comes courtesy of Amazon today. You can currently buy the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum for $159 saving you $116 off the regular price of $275. It has all the key features you could need and is liable to be very popular at this price. Let's take a quick look at what it offers before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum Makers of some of the best robot vacuums, iRobot knows what you need from a robot vacuum. With the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum, you get a three stage cleaning system with dual multi-surface brushes that grab dirt from your carpets and hard floors efficiently. Alongside that is an edge-sweeping brush that handles corners and edges just as well as the main part of your floor.
Smart Home Is it time to upgrade the security of your home? Best Buy can help you do it for cheap with this discount on the Google Nest Doorbell. Right now you can grab the device for just $120 after a $60 discount from its usual $180. This is part of Best Buy's early Black Friday deals, but that doesn't mean it's going to stick around until the shopping holiday next month. If you're interested, you should grab it soon.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Doorbell This Google Nest Doorbell is one of the easiest ways to add a security camera to your home. It's battery powered, so you don't have to drill any holes to wire your home. It's also enabled for Wi-Fi, so you won't need any cables to connect to routers or wall plugins. You just find the perfect spot on your porch and install it with two screws. You'll have it up and running in under 10 minutes.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
