Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to set up Ring motion zones By Jon Bitner Close If you’re getting too many unwanted Ring alerts, it might be time to customize your Ring motion zones. This feature lets you tell your Ring video doorbell which areas of your front yard to monitor -- if motion happens beyond these zones, it’ll be ignored. It’s most useful for homes in busy neighborhoods with bustling sidewalks or a constant flow of traffic, but almost every location can benefit from a few tweaks to Ring motion zones.
How to set up Ring motion zones Tips for setting up your Ring motion zones Difficulty Duration Perfecting your motion zones will take a bit of time, but Ring makes it easy to change your settings with just a few clicks. Here’s how to set up Ring motion zones for your video doorbell or security camera.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to set up Ring motion zones Ring motion zones are supported across most Ring video doorbells and security cameras. To customize them, you’ll first need to open the Ring app on your smartphone.
 With that done, here’s what to do next.
Step 1: Open the menu by pressing the three horizontal lines at the top left of your screen.
Step 2: Select Devices.
Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles How to add Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Step 3: Select the device you’d like to modify.
Step 4: Select Motion Settings (you may have to scroll to the bottom of the page to find this).
Step 5: Select Edit Zones.
 This will take you to a new screen where you can shrink, stretch, or reposition your motion zones as needed. You can even set up multiple zones if desired.
Step 6: Once you’ve made all your changes, press the Save button.
Step 7: If you need help, most devices have a button underneath the Edit Zones option that will give you suggestions on how to set up your motion zones. You can also adjust your motion sensitivity to eliminate minor movements near your front door (or ramp it up if you’re missing notifications).
Tips for setting up your Ring motion zones Figuring out the right motion zone positions for your Ring video doorbell or security camera will take some trial and error. However, there are a few things you can do to optimize your settings and improve your device's performance.
Remove reflective objects from the motion zone. Shiny objects that catch the sun at the wrong angle can inadvertently trigger your Ring device to think there is motion.
Some devices allow you to change motion settings based on the time of day. This can be found in the Motion Settings menu – consider enabling it if you know a certain event happens daily, such as a mail delivery or trash pickup.
Ensure only your property is in the motion zone. If your motion zone leaks onto public sidewalks or into a neighbor’s yard, you’ll end up with more alerts than you want.
If you’re looking to adjust motion zones because you’re receiving too many notifications, be sure to check out all the other settings you can modify.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? Reolink’s Black Friday security deals are the best time to secure your property The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 Best Arlo Black Friday deals: Save on security cameras and bundles Home Security How-To Guides Video Doorbells Smart Home The best video doorbells of 2023 are being produced by household names like Wyze, Arlo, Nest, and Ring. Products from these companies span all budgets and offer a wide range of features -- including HD video capture, customizable motion zones, two-way audio, and the ability to save footage for later reference.
While most of the video doorbells available today are up to the task of guarding your front door, some of them are better-equipped than others. For example, some offer head-to-toe resolutions that are ideal for certain porches, while others provide enhanced night vision footage for easier detection.
Smart Home Arlo is best known for its security cameras, though it has also produced a few popular video doorbells. The Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell has long been a staple of its catalog, but with the launch of the new Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen, is it worth upgrading your doorbell? Here's a look at these two similar devices -- from resolution and battery life to field-of-view and more -- to help you decide.
Price and subscriptions The new Video Doorbell 2nd Gen is offered in two models. The one that films in 2K costs $130 and the one that films in HD costs just $80. The Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell is only offered in one format and costs $150 -- though, as an older product, it's often on sale for just under $100.
Smart Home The Arlo Pro 4 has long been one of the best outdoor security cameras, but that might be changing with the arrival of the Arlo Essential 2nd Gen. This refreshed camera supports up to 2K footage capture, offers a similar design to that of the Arlo Pro 4, and clocks in at a much lower price.
But should you rush out to replace your Arlo Pro 4 with the new Arlo Essential 2nd Gen? And if you're new to the market, which is the better purchase? Here's a closer look at both to help you find the right one for your smart home.
Pricing and monthly fees Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
