Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to turn off Ring notifications By Jon Bitner Close Ring video doorbells are incredibly popular smart home gadgets. There’s a good chance you’ll see a few as you stroll through your neighborhood – but if you own one and live on a busy street, you’ll quickly become annoyed by all the alerts.
How to turn off Ring notifications Further customize your notifications with your smartphone settings Thankfully, Ring gives you plenty of ways to customize your notifications. Here’s how to turn off Ring notifications, along with a few other settings you should consider adjusting.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Ring device Smartphone Ring smartphone app Ring How to turn off Ring notifications If you want to turn off Ring notifications, you’ll need to dive into the Ring smartphone app. Once you’ve loaded the application, follow these simple steps.
Step 1: Press the menu icon at the top left of the screen.
Step 2: Select Devices.
Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles Herman Miller Black Friday sale knocks 25% off top office chairs Early Black Friday deal: $200 off the Dyson Supersonic Hair Dryer Step 3: Select the device that you want to modify.
Step 4: You’ll then see several detection and alert options on the right side of the screen. This includes Ring Alerts , Motion Detection , Motion Alerts , and Motion Warning.
Step 5: You can enable or disable these Ring notifications by toggling them on or off.
Step 6: For more customization options, select the Device Settings option that’s located below these togglable settings.
Step 7: Next, select Notification Settings.
Step 8: You’ll now find a few other options to adjust, including Rich Notifications and App Alert Tones.
Further customize your notifications with your smartphone settings Ring gives you plenty of ways to turn off and customize notifications directly in the smartphone app, but you can also change your notification settings using your built-in smartphone settings.
For example, on a Samsung phone, you can open your Settings and navigate to the Apps submenu. Then, after selecting the Ring app from your list of installed apps, you can choose to enable or disable notifications.
You can even make it so notifications are silent – allowing you to see a pop up on your phone without the annoying vibration and chime that typically comes with it. Be sure to dive into the settings menu for your specific smartphone to see how much additional customization options you have at your disposal.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? How to add Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit Dyson Corrale Straightener is $260 off in Walmart’s Black Friday sale Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 The best video doorbells for 2023 Home Security How-To Guides Video Doorbells Smart Home Arlo is best known for its security cameras, though it has also produced a few popular video doorbells. The Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell has long been a staple of its catalog, but with the launch of the new Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen, is it worth upgrading your doorbell? Here's a look at these two similar devices -- from resolution and battery life to field-of-view and more -- to help you decide.
Price and subscriptions The new Video Doorbell 2nd Gen is offered in two models. The one that films in 2K costs $130 and the one that films in HD costs just $80. The Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell is only offered in one format and costs $150 -- though, as an older product, it's often on sale for just under $100.
Smart Home Wyze creates a bunch of video doorbells, but few are as popular as the Wyze Video Doorbell v2 and Wyze Video Doorbell Pro. Both offer many of the same features -- though their price tags and designs couldn't be further apart. But which one is best for your front door? The expensive Wyze Video Doorbell Pro, or the budget-friendly Wyze Video Doorbell v2? Here's a look at both to help you decide.
Price and subscriptions The Wyze Video Doorbell v2 costs $40, while the Wyze Video Doorbell Pro costs $94. Both can be used without a monthly subscription, though you won't have access to premium features such as cloud video recording and smart detection. A Cam Plus membership is highly recommended, and since it costs just $3 per month, it's not a steep investment.
Smart Home We sort of take it for granted, today, that any device we get will come with its own rechargeable battery. When we do get a device that requires a battery — usually AA or AAA — there is often an associated level of "pain" with this news. Kitchen shelves are opened and closed, the ubiquitous junk drawer is sifted, and there is possibly a trip to the store to be had. Why can't everything just use USB-C cables, again? In any event, you can get 240 batteries, 120 AA and 120 AAA, for just $47 over at Woot right now. Not only will this save you the woes of battery finding when you need them, but it will also save you $103 from the initial price of $150. These batteries are only on sale until supplies dry up or the 30th, so be sure to tap the button below and pick up yours today.
Why you should buy AA and AAA Amazon Basics Batteries It is a bit surprising, but both AA and AAA batteries are needed in today's world. For example, wireless game controllers might require AA batteries. Small TV remotes, such as those that come with the best TVs, are likely to use AAA batteries. Another quirk of batteries is that you really shouldn't mix and match them too much, as having equally powerful batteries is important for most devices. Buying in bulk can be incredibly convenient due to the large stock of uniformly powerful batteries such a person generates.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
