Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Nest Doorbell vs. Ring Battery Doorbell Plus: which is the better video doorbell? By Jon Bitner Close Ring and Nest are responsible for some of the best video doorbells available. With easy-to-use smartphone apps, simple installation processes, and the ability to customize your motion alerts, the Ring Battery Doorbell Plus and Nest Doorbell have quickly established themselves as two of the best video doorbells money can buy.
Design Installation Features and specs Price and subscriptions Verdict But what exactly is the difference between these two popular gadgets? And which is better for your smart home? Here’s a look at the Ring Battery Doorbell Plus and Nest Doorbell to help you decide.
Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles The best video doorbells for 2023 Design Ring The Ring Battery Doorbell Plus looks like most other products in the Ring catalog. The top portion of the rectangular device is black, while the lower half is silver. On the lower half, you’ll find the doorbell button surrounded by the iconic blue ring light. By all accounts, it’s a good-looking doorbell — if not a bit bulky.
By comparison, the Nest Doorbell is much more streamlined. Its elongated shape makes it easier to retrofit into the location of old, existing doorbells, and it comes in a variety of colors to fit your style. The camera can be found at the top of the device, while the doorbell button is down at the bottom.
Winner: Tie Installation Nest Installation for the Ring Battery Doorbell Plus is simple. In fact, Ring says you can have it up and running in a matter of minutes. The most difficult part will be securing the device to your home. If you don’t like the idea of drilling holes into your siding, you can pick up an optional adhesive mount for an even faster process. Once the video doorbell is positioned on your home, you can simply download the Ring app to your smartphone and get things running.
It’s a similar story for the Nest Doorbell. You’ll simply need to mount it to your door, install the smartphone app, then sync the video doorbell to your account.
Keep in mind that the Nest Doorbell is offered in two models — wired or battery. For this comparison, only the battery-powered model is considered. But if you like everything offered by the Nest Doorbell and prefer the continuous power offered by a wired connection, it’s nice to know that Google has you covered.
Winner: Tie Features and specs Nest The Ring Battery Doorbell Plus offers customizable motion alerts, two-way audio, support for Alexa , and a head-to-toe video resolution of 1536p. For recordings that happen after the sun goes down, you’ll benefit from color night vision. You can also make use of Quick Replies, which allows visitors to leave a message (Ring calls it an “answering machine for your front door”).
Battery life for the Ring Battery Doorbell Plus will vary based on usage and climate, but you can expect to get up to eight months on a single charge.
By comparison, the Nest Doorbell (battery) will typically run for just under three months, maxing out at six months if you live in a quiet neighborhood. Its battery clearly isn’t as powerful as the Ring Battery Doorbell Plus, but it does offer many of the same features. This includes customizable alerts, two-way audio, a head-to-toe HD resolution with a 145-degree viewing angle, and infrared night vision.
Winner: Ring Battery Doorbell Plus Price and subscriptions Ring The Ring Battery Doorbell Plus costs $180, as does the Nest Doorbell (battery). You’ll also want to pick up a monthly subscription to get the most mileage out of your devices.
For Ring, that means the Ring Basic Plan, which costs $4 per month and unlocks notifications, 180-day video history, person alerts, and a bunch of other perks. For the Nest Doorbell, you’ll want a Nest Aware subscription, which costs $6 per month and grants you access to features like familiar face alerts and 30 days of event history.
Winner: Ring Battery Doorbell Plus Verdict Thanks to its impressive battery life and more affordable monthly subscription, the Ring Battery Doorbell Plus is likely the better fit for your smart home. There’s little offered by the Nest Doorbell that can’t be found on the Ring Battery Doorbell Plus — and there’s no denying that its extended battery life is a big selling point.
However, keep in mind that a wired version of the Nest Doorbell is available. So, if you liked everything about the video doorbell (including its slim footprint), consider checking out its wired sibling. Not only does it offer practically all the same features, but you’ll never need to change batteries again — and it still clocks in at just $180.
Editors' Recommendations Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell: Which is best? Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Home Security Versus Video Doorbells Smart Home Wyze creates a bunch of video doorbells, but few are as popular as the Wyze Video Doorbell v2 and Wyze Video Doorbell Pro. Both offer many of the same features -- though their price tags and designs couldn't be further apart. But which one is best for your front door? The expensive Wyze Video Doorbell Pro, or the budget-friendly Wyze Video Doorbell v2? Here's a look at both to help you decide.
Price and subscriptions The Wyze Video Doorbell v2 costs $40, while the Wyze Video Doorbell Pro costs $94. Both can be used without a monthly subscription, though you won't have access to premium features such as cloud video recording and smart detection. A Cam Plus membership is highly recommended, and since it costs just $3 per month, it's not a steep investment.
Smart Home The Arlo Essentail Wireless Doorbell next to an iPhone 12 Pro give you a good idea on its size. Digital Trends If you've been considering one of the many Ring doorbell deals going on at the moment and you're keen to try a different brand, how about the Arlo Essential Wi-Fi Smart Video Doorbell? It usually costs $150, but right now you can buy it from Best Buy for $100 so you're saving $50 off the regular price. An ideal way to make your home more secure as well as simply know if it's worth answering the door, it's a great thing to buy. Here's what you need to know before you hit the button.
Smart Home With porch pirates always on the prowl to steal your packages, one of the best ways to protect your family from them is to invest in security camera deals. The Google Nest Cam with Floodlight is an excellent choice for this purpose, especially since it's currently on sale from Best Buy for a more affordable $190 following a $90 discount on its sticker price of $280. This is one of the retailer's early Black Friday deals, but since there's no assurance that it will remain available until the shopping holiday, it's highly recommended that you proceed with purchasing it right now.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight Once you've installed the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight and connected it to your home's Wi-Fi network, you'll never have to worry about your packages getting stolen again. The security camera's built-in intelligence is capable of telling the difference between a person, vehicle, and animal, and once it detects motion, it will send an alert through the Google Home app on your smartphone. You can then look through the device's 1080p HD camera to see what happened, and if the activity happens at night, you can set the floodlight to illuminate the area for a better view and to deter the potential thief.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
