Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Ring Battery Doorbell Plus vs. Ring Video Doorbell 4: which is the best video doorbell? By Jon Bitner Close When it comes to video doorbells , few companies are as popular as Ring. The manufacturer has been churning out highly reviewed products for years — and one of the newest additions, the Ring Battery Doorbell Plus , continues that tradition.
Design Installation Features and specs Price and subscriptions Verdict However, the older Video Doorbell 4 remains one of the best video doorbells in the Ring catalog. Both offer impressive HD video and make use of the intuitive Ring smartphone app, so it might be difficult to figure out which is best for your smart home.
If you’re torn between the two, here’s a comparison of the Ring Battery Doorbell Plus and Ring Video Doorbell 4 to help guide your decision.
Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles The best video doorbells for 2023 Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? Design Ring The Ring Battery Doorbell Plus and Ring Video Doorbell 4 are nearly impossible to distinguish from each other. Both are available in Satin Nickel, clock in at just over 5 inches tall and feature the iconic blue Ring doorbell button in the center. They’re eye-catching products by all counts, and few video doorbells come close to looking this premium.
Winner: Tie Installation Erika Rawes/Digital Trends / Ring As you’d expect, the Ring Battery Doorbell Plus doesn’t require any complex wiring to install. Instead, it features a removable and rechargeable battery pack. If you’d prefer, however, Ring does allow you to hardwire the doorbell for continuous power. This requires the following: Standard doorbell system with 8-24 VAC, 40VA max, 50/60Hz doorbell transformer The same goes for the Ring Video Doorbell 4 — offering both a removable battery pack and all the connections for a hardwired power source. Its hardwired requirements are a bit different: Standard doorbell system, Ring plug-in adapter or transformer with 8-24 VAC, 40VA max, 50/60Hz or 24VDC, 0.5A, 12W In other words, both the Ring Video Doorbell 4 and Battery Doorbell Plus offer two installation methods and should be compatible with nearly every home in the country.
Winner: Tie Features and specs Ring This is where the two products start to diverge. The Ring Battery Doorbell Plus comes with a stat sheet that’s a bit more compelling than its older sibling, thanks to HD footage that’s recorded in 1536p. That’s a strange resolution, but it lets you view both the foot of your door and the face of your guests without any panning required. It also boasts Color Night Vision.
The Video Doorbell 4, meanwhile, films in standard 1080p and may not film the entirety of your front door if placed improperly. It also used black and white footage when recording at night, which isn’t quite as crisp as the Color Night Vision found on the Battery Doorbell Plus.
The Ring Video Doorbell 4 will run for six to 12 months on a single charge, depending on usage and frequency of alerts. The Battery Doorbell Plus is rated for six to eight months. Most users will find it difficult to reach these “best case scenario” numbers and should be ready to recharge their doorbells every few months.
The older Ring Video Doorbell 4 also offers a feature known as Pre-Roll, which lets you capture motion four seconds before the event was triggered. This helps gather a more complete picture of each event and is surprisingly absent on the newer Battery Doorbell Plus.
Despite the omission, the 1536p footage is a game-changer for the Battery Doorbell Plus and is a much bigger deal than Pre-Roll. And if you’re concerned about movement at night, the Battery Doorbell Plus is leagues ahead of its predecessor.
Winner: Ring Battery Doorbell Plus Price and subscriptions Image used with permission by copyright holder The Ring Battery Doorbell Plus costs $180, while the Ring Video Doorbell 4 is $160. It’s possible to use both without a Ring Protect Plan , but you’ll likely want to spring for the Basic Plan, which costs $4 per month or $40 per year. There’s also the option for a Plus Plan ($10 per month) that’s designed for homes with multiple cameras. And if you really want to keep your home protected, both doorbells are eligible for the Ring Pro Plan at $20 per month or $200 per year.
Winner: Tie Verdict Ring Although they share much in common, the new Ring Battery Doorbell Plus is likely the better option for most homes. Its ability to produce head-to-toe footage is impressive, and Color Night Vision helps keep things crisp and clear when the sun goes down.
If you currently own a Ring Video Doorbell 4, however, it may not be worth upgrading. Most of the specs are shared across both video doorbells, and there’s not much of a need to drop $180 unless you really need improved night vision or the higher resolution footage.
On the other hand, folks without a video doorbell (or with an older model), will find much to love about the Battery Doorbell Plus. It may not look much different from most Ring doorbells, but it’s without a doubt one of the best video doorbells available today.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell: Which is best? Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Wyze Video Doorbell v2 vs. Wyze Video Doorbell Pro Home Security Versus Video Doorbells Smart Home The Arlo Essentail Wireless Doorbell next to an iPhone 12 Pro give you a good idea on its size. Digital Trends If you've been considering one of the many Ring doorbell deals going on at the moment and you're keen to try a different brand, how about the Arlo Essential Wi-Fi Smart Video Doorbell? It usually costs $150, but right now you can buy it from Best Buy for $100 so you're saving $50 off the regular price. An ideal way to make your home more secure as well as simply know if it's worth answering the door, it's a great thing to buy. Here's what you need to know before you hit the button.
Smart Home The Echo Pop and HomePod mini are radically different products. Both are smart speakers -- allowing you to listen to music or chat with a voice assistant -- but that's about where the similarities end. Echo Pop is designed as an affordable, entry-level device while the HomePod mini clocks in at a hefty $100.
But is Apple's HomePod mini worth the added expense? Or should shoppers stick with the cheaper Echo Pop? Here's a look at the advantages of both smart speakers to help you decide.
Pricing and design Smart Home Wyze is a popular destination for smart home shoppers seeking premium features on a budget, and the new Wyze Video Doorbell v2 might be its most enticing product yet. Not only does it capture 2K footage and offer free 12-second video recording, but it also features a microSD card slot for local storage -- all for just $40.
That's an impressive list considering its low price. The microSD card slot is the big selling point, as few products in this price range offer the coveted feature. Having a video doorbell with an onboard microSD slot means you can record continuous footage both day and night. When the sun goes down, it also offers color night vision for improved clarity.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
