Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Ring Indoor Cam vs. Arlo Essential Indoor Camera: which is best? By Jon Bitner Close If you’re looking for a reliable indoor security camera, it’s hard to go wrong with the Ring Indoor Cam or Arlo Essential Indoor Camera.
 Both can capture crystal clear footage, are highly customizable, and sync with smartphone apps so you can review all your notifications. Amazon recently launched an updated version of the Ring Indoor Cam — but is it better than the aging Arlo Essential Indoor Camera? Video quality and cost Feature and spec list Monthly fees and what you get Ease of use Which is best? Here’s a closer look at the Ring Indoor Cam and Arlo Essential Indoor Camera to help you decide which is best for your smart home.
Video quality and cost John Velasco / Digital Trends The Ring Indoor Cam costs $60 and captures 1080p footage. It also uses color night vision to produce surprisingly great images in the dark. The Arlo Essential Indoor Camera costs $100 and records in black and white at night. It is, however, on sale for $60, and that price will likely stick around for quite some time.
The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? The Ring Indoor Cam also goes on sale frequently — so if don’t need an indoor camera right away, consider holding off a few weeks, as a discount is bound to appear.
Winner: Ring Indoor Cam Feature and spec list Image used with permission by copyright holder Beyond filming 1080p footage with a 115-degree field of view, the Ring Indoor Cam uses Advanced Pre-Roll to capture footage a few seconds before a capture event occurs, includes a manual privacy shutter, allows for instant notifications to your smartphone , and comes with a mount that allows you to install on a wall or simply place it on a table. It also features two-way audio so you can chat with family members while away from home.
It’s a similar story for the Arlo Essential Indoor Camera, as it offers two-way audio, a 130-degree field of view, smart alerts, and a mount that can be installed on a wall or placed on a shelf. The biggest difference is with Arlo’s privacy shutter — unlike the Ring Indoor Cam, Arlo allows you to remotely toggle the privacy shutter using the smartphone app.
Winner: Arlo Essential Indoor Camera Monthly fees and what you get John Velasco / Digital Trends To get the most out of your cameras, you’ll need to pick up a monthly subscription. For Arlo, this comes in three formats. Be sure to learn more about Arlo Secure before making a purchase, but you’ll at least want to pick up the basic plan that costs $5 per month and gives you access to smart interactive notifications, 30 days of cloud storage, and video object detection with AI.
For the Ring Indoor Cam, you’ll want a Ring Protect Plan.
 This comes in three formats, with the Basic Plan costing $4 per month and offering person alerts, up to 180 days of video history, and support for Home and Away modes. It’s very similar to the Arlo plans, but since Ring’s cheapest plan is more affordable than Arlo, it narrowly wins this category.
Winner: Ring Indoor Cam Ease of use John Velasco / Digital Trends Whether you opt for the Ring or Arlo product, you’ll be treated to a simple installation process. Once you’ve installed your camera, operating it is just as simple. Both products use an accompanying smartphone app that allows you to access your notifications, view your recording history, customize your alert zones, and access a live stream. Both products also work seamlessly with Alexa for voice commands.
Winner: Tie Which is best? Thanks to its lower price, more affordable monthly subscription, and support for color night vision, the Ring Indoor Cam is the better option for most smart homes. The Arlo Essential Indoor is no slouch, however, and if you’re concerned about privacy, it deserves a closer look. Ring doesn’t let you manipulate its privacy shutter remotely — which might be a dealbreaker for some households.
However, keep in mind that the Arlo Essential Indoor Camera is typically $40 more expensive than the Ring Indoor Cam. That’s a hefty premium to pay for a remote-controlled privacy shutter, as that’s one of the only key differences between these two impressive products. Its recent price cut does make it more enticing, but it still can’t quite stack up to the Ring Indoor Cam.
In other words, opt for the Ring Indoor Cam unless privacy is a major concern, in which case the Arlo Essential Indoor Camera is a wise purchase.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans The best video doorbells for 2023 The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Home Security Smart Home Indoor security cameras have a host of uses around a home or business. They can watch for intruders, keep an eye on pets, serve as baby monitors, help guide guests, and generally be on the lookout for anything unusual. If you’re interested in an indoor cam that can do it all, these are the top smart options from the best brands on the market! Smart Home When it comes to keeping your floors clean, robot vacuums and cordless vacuums are among the best products you can buy. Robot vacuums have become increasingly popular over the past few years -- thanks to their ability to clean your home autonomously -- but cordless vacuums offer plenty of advantages over their robotic counterparts.
Deciding between the two isn't easy, and thankfully, it's hard to make a wrong decision. Both are well-equipped to clean your floors, but there are some big trade-offs you'll have to make for each class. So, which is better? Robot vacuums or cordless vacuums? Smart Home When it comes to building a smart home, few steps are as important as choosing your smart home platform. Pick the wrong one, and you could be left using dozens of separate smartphone apps to control all your gadgets.
Apple HomeKit and Amazon Alexa are two of the best options available today -- but which one is better for you? Here’s a comparison of the two platforms to help you decide.
What is a smart home platform? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
