Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Deter porch pirates: Google’s Nest Cam with Floodlight is $90 off By Aaron Mamiit Close Google With porch pirates always on the prowl to steal your packages, one of the best ways to protect your family from them is to invest in security camera deals.
 The Google Nest Cam with Floodlight is an excellent choice for this purpose, especially since it’s currently on sale from Best Buy for a more affordable $190 following a $90 discount on its sticker price of $280. This is one of the retailer’s early Black Friday deals , but since there’s no assurance that it will remain available until the shopping holiday, it’s highly recommended that you proceed with purchasing it right now.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight Once you’ve installed the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight and connected it to your home’s Wi-Fi network, you’ll never have to worry about your packages getting stolen again. The security camera ‘s built-in intelligence is capable of telling the difference between a person, vehicle, and animal, and once it detects motion, it will send an alert through the Google Home app on your smartphone.
 You can then look through the device’s 1080p HD camera to see what happened, and if the activity happens at night, you can set the floodlight to illuminate the area for a better view and to deter the potential thief.
You’ll be able to customize the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight according to your preferences, including a specific schedule for the floodlight to turn on and off, and the sensitivity of its motion sensor. The security camera will keep up to three hours of video recordings on the cloud, but if you subscribe to Nest Aware , you can extend that history to up to 60 days.
If you want to avoid the frustration of getting hit by a porch pirate, you should consider buying a smart security camera like the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight. Originally priced at $280, it’s down to just $190 from Best Buy for savings of $90. At this lowered price, you may even be able to afford multiple cameras to place around your home. You’re going to have to act fast though, because there’s no telling if the offer will still be available tomorrow. Buy the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight as soon as possible to make sure that you secure the discount.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more Best Arlo Black Friday deals: Save on security cameras and bundles The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 Deals Google Nest Smart Home Using an air fryer is popular today, largely because the machines let us get the great taste and texture of fried foods without suffering through all of the healthy-ruining oils that come with them. As we've explored the best air fryers, however, we've come to the conclusion that not all air fryers are created equal. And we're not alone in this assessment, as customers consistently appreciate using some over others as well. One such customer-loved air fryer is the Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer. The best part about it? An early Black Friday deal at Best Buy sends this beloved air fryer down to $50 from $130, saving you $80. Tap the button below to check it out yourself or keep reading for more info.
Why you should buy the Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer The Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer cooks up to 6.5 pounds of food at a time over 1700W of power. There are nine preset options for popular foods like shrimp or fish, but the whole device is easily controlled by an intuitive touch panel. It's easy to clean your fingerprints off it, too, due to its stainless steel exterior and smooth-surfaced touch panel. Similarly, the interior basket and crisping tray are both dishwasher safe.
Smart Home Air purifiers can help you refresh the air quality in your home by effectively cleaning it and reintroducing it. That's important because indoor air quality tends to degrade over time, even inside really clean homes and properties. The more people and pets you cram into a space, the dirtier it's going to be. That goes for air quality, too, especially if you have allergies. But by taking advantage of one of the best air purifier deals, you can reverse that problem. Take the Dyson HP07 Hot+Cool smart air purifier, which is currently on sale at Best Buy for $200 off. Normally $750, you can get it today for $550, an incredible price. It's an air purifier, fan, and heater all rolled into one, with HEPA filtration and coverage for 1,000 to over 2,000 square feet.
Why you should buy the Dyson HP07 Hot+Cool smart air purifier The main question on your mind is, likely, do air purifiers work? The answer is yes and in many ways. For example, they can help remove strange or old odors in a home or apartment.
Smart Home The Arlo Essentail Wireless Doorbell next to an iPhone 12 Pro give you a good idea on its size. Digital Trends If you've been considering one of the many Ring doorbell deals going on at the moment and you're keen to try a different brand, how about the Arlo Essential Wi-Fi Smart Video Doorbell? It usually costs $150, but right now you can buy it from Best Buy for $100 so you're saving $50 off the regular price. An ideal way to make your home more secure as well as simply know if it's worth answering the door, it's a great thing to buy. Here's what you need to know before you hit the button.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
