Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best coffee makers for 2022 By Michael Bizzaco and Erika Rawes Close Getting the day going with that all-too-crucial cup of coffee is paramount for many of us. While rolling through the Starbucks drive-thru is a decent last-ditch resort for those with limited time, brewing coffee at home is usually preferable. After all, no one knows your taste in coffee better than you, and making coffee at home can save you quite a bit of money. Like most small appliances, there are hundreds of models available, which doesn’t make trying to buy a new model easy.
From single-cup coffee makers to barista-style espresso makers , there’s a coffee maker for everyone in this extensive roundup. Our top choice, the Bonavita Connoisseur, is easy to use and makes a delicious cup of drip coffee, but there are plenty of alternatives.
More More More More More More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Bonavita Connoisseur The best all-around coffee maker Pre-infusion for delicious coffee Thermal carafe Compact and sleek design May be too small for larger offices Possibly the last drip coffee machine you’ll ever want to own, the Bonavita Connoisseur is an improvement over its already stellar predecessor, the BV1900TS. The Connoisseur takes up little more than a sliver of real estate in your kitchen with its incredibly compact design, which prevents it from sticking out like a sore thumb.
Aesthetics aside, this Bonavita model packs a serious punch, arguably producing the best cup of drip coffee you’ll ever taste. It does so by utilizing the underused process of pre-infusion, which wets the coffee grounds a few minutes before brewing. Pre-infusion allows for your coffee to extract evenly, producing a more consistent brew — and a heck of a good cup of coffee.
Moreover, the Bonavita Connoisseur's thermal eight-cup carafe keeps the coffee piping hot for hours after the brew cycle completes. Compact, sleek, and efficient, this machine is the cream of the coffee-maker crop.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Cuisinart DCC-3200 The best budget coffee maker Easy programming options for strength Insulated carafe Affordable Larger, clunky design Cuisinart's 14-cup DCC-3200 improves upon its predecessor in so many ways that its reasonable price tag is difficult to believe. The included water filter and permanent gold-tone filter ensure you'll always get a clean pour, and it even allows you to pause the maker mid-brew to pour yourself a quick cup in case you're short on time. If you're low on time in the morning, you can leverage the coffee maker's 24-hour programming — so you can have that perfect cup of coffee ready as soon as you roll out of bed.
The feature-laden DCC also boasts adjustable brew strength, allowing you to make coffee that's as rich or as watery as you want. In addition, self-cleaning capabilities and auto-shutoff timers make this one of the most convenient, versatile coffee rigs on the market. The 3200 features a revamped system that'll simultaneously make hotter and better-tasting coffee. However, the only drawback is its relatively large countertop footprint — this guy isn't terribly small.
One common complaint about the Cuisinart DCC-3200 is its glass carafe. Luckily, Cuisinart realized this as an issue and upgraded the DCC line to include double-walled insulated carafes. Now, your java never gets cold. Plus, the whole machine is BPA-free, so no need to worry about harmful chemicals sneaking into your brew. All in all, the DCC-3200 is an admirable upgrade to an already excellent line of coffee makers.
More The best coffee maker Black Friday deals happening now The best video doorbells for 2023 The best robot vacuums for 2023 Image used with permission by copyright holder Nespresso Vertuo The best for pod brewing Compact, simple design Supports smart pods for coffee, espresso, gran lungo, and more Multiple cup size options Only supports pods Taking your hot brewed beverage game to the next level, the Nespresso Vertuo lets you concoct barista-grade coffee and espresso drinks from the comfort of your kitchen. Best of all, the drinks come courtesy of Nespresso's capsule system. Once a pod is inserted, the Vertuo decodes info from the capsule bar code and sends it to the coffee maker, ensuring that each pour features the perfect crema layering based on the cup size you're looking to fill. Choose between five different cup sizes based on brewing preferences. These include espresso, double espresso, gran lungo, coffee, and alto. For those looking to craft up cappuccinos and lattes, the Vertuo is paired with Nespresso's Aeroccino milk frother for that next-level beverage. Plus, with heat-up times of only 15 seconds, you'll have your caffeine fast.
The starter pack comes with 12 capsules to get you going. While you won't be able to run any standalone grounds through the machine (pods only), the Nespresso Vertuo is perfect for those looking to brew without needing to measure quantities of this or that, as the machine does all the thinking for you.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Cuisinart SS-15P1 The best multi-cup maker 12-cup carafe Additional single-cup component Useful settings The two-part design requires more maintenance than usual Is quantity just as important as quality? Then it sounds like the Cuisinart SS-15P1 coffee maker is for you. Allowing you to brew up to 12 cups of coffee with the glass carafe portion, the maker's second terminal is a dedicated single-cup coffee maker that will net you 6-, 8-, and 10-ounce beverages.
For those looking to get the most out of their day, you can program the coffee maker up to 24 hours in advance. Want an extra blast of caffeine in your mug? Use the Bold Coffee option for extra zing in your drink. Using Cuisinart Coffee Bar pods (Medium Roast, Dark Roast, and French Vanilla for flavor), the SS-15P1 also comes with a reusable filter cup for when you want to run your own grounds through the machine.
This is a great machine for those who want the best of both brewing worlds: coffee for the whole family and single cups for when you want to grab and go. Either way, the Cuisinart SS-15P1 is worth it.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Mr. Coffee Optimal Brew The best coffee pot Stainless steal thermal carafe Handy removable water reservoir with filter Affordable Could have more customization options Consistency and efficiency go a long way in making a coffee maker stand out from the crowd, both of which Mr. Coffee’s Optimal Brew machine achieves with ease.
Outfitted with a stainless steel thermal carafe, the Optimal Brew keeps your beverage hotter than your average coffee maker. Moreover, the vacuum-insulated carafe keeps each pot hot regardless of whether it’s sitting within the machine or conveniently on your kitchen counter. Mr. Coffee also equipped the machine with a removable water reservoir, rendering the task of refilling the tank an absolute breeze. There's even an onboard water filter that helps eliminate the chlorine from your tap water — that way, you're getting the best tasting cup of joe possible.
Users also can program the Mr. Coffee Optimal Brew to brew at a set time each day and choose from either normal or bold brew cycles. Delicious coffee and a straightforward feature set simply can’t be had for a cheaper price.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Keurig K-Elite The best single-cup coffee maker 75-ounce reservoir for more pours Five different cup sizes Strong brew and ice options Not as smart as more expensive Keurig models One of the most user-friendly coffee makers in our roundup, this Keurig model brews five different cup sizes quickly and quietly. The device has a 75-ounce reservoir, and you can brew eight or more cups of coffee before you have to refill the water. The machine also tells you when it's time to descale your Keurig , so you'll always have the best-tasting cup of joe.
With a sleek brushed display (brushed silver, slate, or gold), the Keurig K-Elite looks like a high-quality machine that coordinates with your kitchen appliances. With features like a strong-brew option for when you need an extra boost and an iced button to brew over ice, you can make a variety of different coffee, tea, cocoa, and iced beverage creations. We've also found some of the best Keurig deals going on right now if you're looking for some savings.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Mr. Coffee All-in-One Occasions The best combo coffee/espresso machine All-in-one coffee options Supports everything from 15-bar espresso to K-Cups Automatic switching modes and water dispensing It takes a lot of work to use all these features The Occasions coffee maker manages to stay relatively compact while offering both coffee and espresso creations as needed. It has a 10-cup carafe for brewing traditional coffee and also allows you to make a single pour for 6-, 8-, 10-, or 12-ounce cups. Then, in another mode and with a little platform, it can make two shots of espresso with a 15-bar-strength pump. There's also a built-in milk frother for creating lattes and such. It can even switch to K-Cups if you so desire.
There's also some handy smart technology built into the Mr. Coffee All-in-One Occasions, including automatic mode switching based on the attachments that you're using, automatic water dispensing based on your choices, and temperature-control options. Yes, there are a lot of components to this coffee maker, but it can also do just about everything! More Image used with permission by copyright holder Technivorm Moccamaster KBG The best coffee maker for connoisseurs Copper heating element for tight temperature control Nine-hole outlet arm for ground saturation Hot plate to keep poured coffee at ideal temperatures Expensive If you need to brew 10 cups of coffee fast — but still want to focus on coffee quality — then this Moccamaster model is the perfect fit. The 40-ounce carafe is just the right amount for 10 cups of coffee (well, normal-sized cups of coffee ... make allowances for people who like extra-large portions!), and the overall design of this beautiful coffee maker is made to facilitate ideal coffee heating and flavor.
The copper heating element of the Technivorm Moccamaster KBG keeps the water at an ideal temperature and can brew in only several minutes, while the nine-hole outlet arm allows for just the right amount of ground saturation. The hot plate is designed to keep the brewed coffee between 175 and 185 degrees Fahrenheit, making this model especially ideal for a busy office where everyone cares a lot about their coffee.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Wacaco Minipresso GR The best on-the-go coffee/espresso maker Brews coffee right in the portable carafe Ergonomic, durable design Affordable Only fit for one person Water must be boiled separately This could be one of the coolest hot beverage accessories we've ever laid eyes on and an excellent travel companion to boot. The tiny but mighty Minipresso GR by Wacaco is a portable coffee maker that brews pint-sized shots of your favorite blends. Just add your grounds, pour hot water in the water tank, and pump the device's main piston to compress and pour your steamy drink.
The Wacaco Minipresso GR is certainly more of a personal coffee maker, as the mini-carafe only produces up to 50 millimeters of liquid; but its sleek, ergonomic design, portability, excellent price, and delicious results are grounds enough (pun intended) to land the Minipresso on our list. Just be mindful that you'll want to bring a kettle on your next camping trip, as the Minipresso cannot do the water boiling for you.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Cuisinart DCC-T20 Best drip coffee maker Extra-large 14-cup carafe Strength and scheduling controls Charcoal water filter to improve taste No insulated carafe like other Cuisinart options If you've tried plenty of coffeemakers before but always end up coming back to a basic drip coffee maker that has the classic taste you love and is easy to use (read: no messing with pods or temperature levels), you may fall in love with this Cuisinart model. It takes the classic drip coffee maker and updates the idea in all the right ways.
The touchscreen controls allow you to set up fully automatic brewing, including desired coffee strength, automatic shut-off, and adding an alert when the coffee is ready. There's also a self-clean option to help keep things flowing. The carafe holds up to 14 cups, too. The coffee maker comes with not only a gold-tone filter but also a charcoal water filter to help make sure the water tastes as clean as possible and doesn't interfere with your coffee flavor.
More Frequently Asked Questions Coffee makers work by heating water and mixing it with grinds. Single-cup makers use pre-portioned amounts of coffee grinds in a pre-made package (like a K-Cup pod). When you place the K-Cup in the machine and press Start , the machine places a small pinhole in the K-Cup and then delivers hot water through pressurized hoses from the reservoir into the K-Cup, the water then mixes with the grinds, and then the coffee falls into your cup. Standard drip coffee makers also work by holding water in a reservoir. When you place a coffee grind-filled filter into your coffee maker to start making your joe, the machine transfers the hot water through a tube and onto a perforated disc so it drips over the grinds to create coffee.
You can program your coffee maker to have a fresh cup ready and waiting for you the moment you roll out of bed. On busy mornings, this can be a lifesaver when you don't have time to brew your own. Many programmable coffee makers can brew different amounts, so you can get everything ready the night before and leave your mug or travel container beneath the spout. A fresh cup of Joe will be waiting when you roll out of bed ... just give it about five minutes to fully brew.
These days, coffee makers also have interesting compatibility with smart devices. That includes support for voice assistants, allowing you to create routines with Google Assistant or Alexa that automatically start your coffeemaker in the morning along with other changes.
The majority of coffee makers use the drip method, but there are other ways to make coffee depending on style and flavor. You can use a French press, an Aeropress , or the pour-over method to make coffee. If you want to go old-school, you can use the stovetop Moka Pot to heat up your brew and make coffee just like they did in the 1930s. You can also use a Chemex, a particular kind of pour-over container that uses thicker filters to yield a more balanced cup of coffee. And, of course, don't forget about cold brew coffee, a style of infusion that's typically steeped at least overnight and used to make powerful iced coffees.
Sort of. You can empty the contents of a K-cup into a standard drip coffee maker filter, use the correct amount of water as directed on the packaging, and then brew a cup using a regular coffee maker. You typically cannot, however, just plop a K-Cup into a standard coffee maker and brew it as you would with a Keurig machine or similar device.
A typical coffee maker uses around 800 watts in about 10 minutes.
Some people fear Keurig coffee makers can be hazardous to their health because they can accumulate mold, and some also worry that Keurig machines or K-Cup pods may contain materials that can be harmful.
Keurig K-Cups are BPA-free and are generally considered safe. In terms of mold, all coffee makers must be cleaned and maintained for maximum safety and effectiveness. If you clean your coffee maker regularly, you shouldn’t have much to worry about. However, if you're concerned about the safety of your machine, consult the manufacturer or the product manual for additional warnings and information.
Environmental impact is another question. Single-use coffee cups inherently involve a lot of wasted material. However, there are ways to be more environmentally friendly when using a K-Cup model , including looking for recyclable or compostable cups.
It's so common these days that any new coffee maker you buy should have this feature. But it's not a guarantee, especially with the smallest coffee makers.
The lifespan of each coffee maker depends on the brand, how well you maintain the machine, and other factors. However, if you notice your machine is not brewing coffee well (even after cleaning), the coffee tastes bad, or if it’s having other issues with performance (shuts off randomly, doesn’t get hot enough, etc.), it’s probably time to replace your machine.
Typically, between 195 and 205 degrees Fahrenheit, although some coffee makers have wider temperature ranges so you can customize your brewing options. The Speciality Coffee Association of America says best practices are to limit water temperature to around 200 degrees, plus or minus 5 degrees. So, it's no wonder that so many models meet this qualification.
Yes. But it's a good idea to clean the machine first. Otherwise, your tea could have coffee flavor.
In many ways, coffee is a subjective experience. Some like it bold and piping hot, while others want a mild experience in terms of both taste and temperature. When we test coffee makers, we take that into account and look at how customizable the process is.
The most significant aspects to consider when searching for a coffee maker are time and temperature. The taste relies heavily upon the quality of the coffee grounds you're using. The National Coffee Association indicates the proper temperature range for a delicious cup of coffee, and we use these protocols when determining whether a coffee maker is delivering coffee at the right temperature. We record the amount of time it takes to brew one cup versus a complete pot. We also consider the coffee's temperature when poured into the carafe and how well the carafe maintains that heat after two hours.
In addition, we might also observe a coffee maker's architecture and appeal. Most people probably don't want their coffee maker to take up too much space. We know that the carafe must serve a clean pour and that the coffee maker needs to be easy to use (so much so that anyone in your home could make a cup or a pot without disturbing everyone else). We acknowledge that convenience is appreciated and is certainly required for optimal functionality.
Looking to save as much money as you can? We even rounded up the best coffee maker deals if you’re working with a tight budget.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best robot mops of 2023 Early Walmart Black Friday deal gets you this Keurig for $35 The best indoor security cameras of 2023 Best Keurig deals: Get perfect coffee at home for just $50 Appliances Best Products Smart Home One of the best Black Friday deals for coffee lovers is over at Amazon. Today, you can buy the Keurig K-Mini Single Serve Coffee Maker for just $50 saving 50% off the regular price of $100. One of the best Keurig deals for those who like to enjoy a cup of Joe every morning, here's everything else you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the Keurig K-Mini Single Serve Coffee Maker Keurig makes some of the best coffee makers around making them a must-own for coffee lovers. With the Keurig K-Mini Single Serve Coffee Maker, it will fit pretty much anywhere thanks to being less than five inches wide so it's perfect for those with small apartments or kitchens.
Smart Home The best Alexa smart speakers don't just offer support for the voice assistant -- they also sound good, look good, and bring great value to your home. They often serve as the "brains" of a connected smart home, as you can give commands to the rest of your Alexa-enabled products just by talking to your smart speaker.
But with so many Alexa smart speakers on the market in 2023, it can be a challenge when narrowing down your options. It's hard to go wrong with anything from Amazon, Bose, Sonos, and other reputable brands – but which model is best for you? Smart Home If you like to drink coffee in the morning, every morning, you're not alone. At least when it comes to enjoying coffee. But if you are alone, like in your apartment, or as the sole coffee loving individual of your household, we want you to consider grabbing this single serve coffee machine while it is on a massive sale for October shopping holiday events. It's the Keurig K-Mini Plus Single Serve K-Cup Pod Coffee Maker. This deal highlights the Dusty Rose color of the coffee maker, which is the cheapest we're finding the machine for at $50. That represents a savings of $59 off of the usual price of $109. However, if the pink makes you squeamish, the is also on sale, albeit at a price point a few dollars higher.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
