Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products The best Keurig coffee makers By Michael Bizzaco and Gia Liu Close Let’s be frank: Most of us can’t start the day without the benefits of coffee.
 For some of us, make it two or three. A coffee maker is a staple for nearly all caffeine-hungry households, and Keurig has been leading the charge on fast and easy brewing for over a decade with single-serve coffee makers.
 Just drop your favorite pod in, fill with water, and let her rip.
The best for essentials: Keurig K-Classic The slightly more frills option: Keurig K-Select The best business Keurig: Keurig K155 Office Pro Best for latte lovers: Keurig K-Latte Most versatile: Keurig K-Cafe The main draw of a Keurig machine is that it makes a nearly perfect — or at least consistent — cup of coffee with the mere push of a button. Since Keurig’s models are based on the same brewing system, you’ll get a similar cup of joe with every unit. But, this doesn’t mean that all Keurig machines are created equal. Some can’t brew more than 10 ounces of coffee at a time, for example. Here are some of our favorite models.
If you’re looking to save big, be sure to gloss our picks for the best Keurig deals and best coffee maker deals.
The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart home devices for 2023 The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 The best for essentials: Keurig K-Classic Image used with permission by copyright holder While the K-Classic is one of the more basic models offered by Keurig, don’t let “basic” fool you. The Classic can brew your favorite coffee, hot cocoa, tea, and iced drinks in just under a minute, and lets you choose from three different cup sizes, in 6-, 8-, or 10-ounce servings (for those of us that really need the morning joe). A removable 48-ounce water reservoir means you can get multiple beverages out of one tank, and the maker even comes outfitted with a programmable Auto-Off function. The Classic is a solid buy, but if you’re looking for a slightly more feature-rich model, you can step it up a notch for only a few bucks more.
The slightly more frills option: Keurig K-Select Image used with permission by copyright holder Take all of the great fundamentals of the K-Classic and let’s crank things up a couple notches. For starters, that 48-ounce water reservoir jumps to a 52-ounce size, which means you can squeeze a little bit more coffee out of your tank. Another size upgrade is actual serving size of your drink. The K-Select features 6-, 8-, 10-, and 12- ounce options for all of your favorite hot and cold beverages. Need an extra bit of kick in your cup? The added Strong Brew mode plays around with the water-to-grounds ratio of your pod, making for a stronger-tasting, stronger-feeling mug of joe. To top it all off, the Select also features Keurig’s quiet brew technology, keeping the hiss and squeals of normal coffee brewing to a bare minimum.
The best business Keurig: Keurig K155 Office Pro Image used with permission by copyright holder The most business-friendly option for Keurigs, this powerful K155 model is designed with the office in mind. It sports an especially large 90-ounce reservoir to make sure the coffee maker doesn’t run out of water at the worst times (that’s enough for 18 cups), and has an option to quickly drain water if the coffee maker needs to be packed up and moved for catering or other events. The Keurig is also particularly easy to operate, with an LCD touchscreen that allows you to choose between 4, 6, 8 or 10-ounce settings, and adjust the strength of the coffee to your preference. Don’t bother with lesser Keurigs for offices or events: Choose a model that can keep up with the demand.
Best for latte lovers: Keurig K-Latte Image used with permission by copyright holder The K-Latte is an extremely affordable espresso machine , yet it still offers a lot of features and functionality. It’s compatible with all K-Cups pods, and you can make a regular cup of coffee. But, it also comes with a milk frother and a coffee shot button, so you can make your favorite latte. You may find yourself having to frequently refill the 36-ounce water reservoir, but that’s a small price to pay for great coffee and lattes. The K-Latte can also accommodate a travel mug that’s up to seven inches tall, so you can easily make a to-go cup.
Most versatile: Keurig K-Cafe Image used with permission by copyright holder Keurig is known for simplifying the process of making coffee, sure, but the company also knows how to craft a nice cup of cappuccino. The K-Cafe System is almost as effortless as using Keurig’s coffee makers. You just brew a coffee shot using a single serve pod, froth your favorite type of milk, and create your coffee creation. The K-Cafe has a dishwasher-safe frother. Plus, this machine has a large, 60-ounce water reservoir and you can brew four different cup sizes: Six, eight, 10, or 12 ounces.
Need more options? Check out our list of the best 4-cup coffee makers.
Editors' Recommendations The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 Best robot mops of 2023 The best holiday smart lights The best video doorbells for 2023 Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? Buying Guides Appliances Buying Guides Smart Home If you're shopping for the best outdoor security cameras of 2023, you'll want to find something that's weatherproof, captures high-quality footage, and works well at night. It's also important to consider your budget and ongoing subscriptions that may be required to access premium features such as cloud saving and person detection.
Regardless of your budget, there's an outdoor security camera that'll fit your needs. From premium products crafted by Ring to budget-friendly options like those from Wyze, there are dozens of well-reviewed models that are perfect for protecting your home.
Smart Home Offering impressive video capture, easy installation processes, and an intuitive smartphone app, Arlo stands out as one of the best manufacturers of security cameras. Its catalog has grown a bit larger recently with the launch of its Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen -- but how does this new arrival stack up to the iconic Arlo Pro 4? Here's a look at the Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen and Arlo Pro 4 to help you determine which is best for your security system.
Pricing and monthly fees Smart Home Smart displays sit at the very center of most smart homes. With the ability to sync with other gadgets to issue commands, give you daily updates, or serve as a second screen to binge your favorite shows, smart displays are remarkably versatile devices.
The smart display market is more saturated today than ever before, with products from Amazon, Google, Facebook, and more vying for your attention. Google has even revealed that the upcoming Pixel Tablet will double as a smart display, and Apple might be throwing its hat into the ring sooner than expected.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
