Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Keurig deals: Get perfect coffee at home for just $50 By Andrew Morrisey Close For many people the day is best kicked off with a nice cup of coffee. If you’re one of these people, not only do we have a great cup of coffee in store for you, but also some savings. Many of the best coffee makers often see discounts, and that’s certainly the case with one of the best names in coffee makers: Keurig. There are quite a few Keurig coffee makers seeing major price drops right now, including several in consideration for the best Keurig coffee makers.
 We’ve done the heavy lifting of tracking them all down, so read onward for more details on how to save on a Keurig coffee maker, and for more information on which Keurig coffee maker may be best for you.
Keurig K-Mini coffee maker — $50, was $100 Keurig K-Compact coffee maker — $500, was $100 Keurig K-Slim coffee maker — $70, was $130 Keurig K-Iced coffee maker — $91, was $100 Keurig K-Classic coffee maker — $100, was $150 Keurig K-Elite coffee maker — $111, was $190 Keurig K-Supreme coffee maker— $139, was $170 Keurig K-Duo coffee maker — $140, was $190 Keurig K-Mini coffee maker — $50, was $100 Keurig The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker is a stylish coffee maker that looks good in any kitchen or break room. It suits smaller spaces particularly well, as it’s less than five inches wide. Despite its smaller size, it’s still fully capable. It can brew any cup size between 6-12 ounces, and it’s able to brew coffee, tea, cocoa, and even iced beverages. The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker has easy cord storage for transport and tidying up your countertop after use, and an energy efficiency feature turns the coffee maker off automatically 90 seconds after your last brew.
Keurig K-Compact coffee maker — $500, was $100 Keurig Like all of the best coffee makers, the Keurig K-Compact coffee maker gets the job done quickly and easily. It a brew for cup sizes between six and 10 ounces, and offers button controls that allow you to simply insert a pod, select your desired cup brew size, and get fresh brewed coffee in minutes. It has a removable drip tray that accommodates travel mugs up to seven inches tall, and it comes in a wide variety of colors to choose from so you can find the perfect K-Compact for your kitchen or workspace.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Keurig K-Slim coffee maker — $70, was $130 Keurig The Keurig K-Slim coffee maker offers some impressive smarts for your kitchen, making it great to keep alongside some of the best smart kitchen appliances. It has multistream technology that extracts full flavor and aroma in every brew, as well as energy efficiency features that turn off the coffee maker five minutes after your last brew. It has a removable 46-ounce reservoir that lets you brew up to four cups before having to refill it again, and this coffee maker’s slim design and small footprint make it perfect for apartments and other small spaces.
Keurig K-Iced coffee maker — $91, was $100 Keurig The Keurig K-Iced is the coffee maker for you if you enjoy your coffee brewed over ice. It automatically adjusts brew temperature, starting hotter to extract full flavor, then cooling down for less ice melt. It can brew a stronger, more intense cup of hot coffee, and can do so three different cup sizes. It has a 42-ounce removable reservoir that allows you to brew up to four cups between refills, and it’s even iced tumbler friendly, accommodating tumblers and travel mugs up to seven inches tall.
Keurig K-Classic coffee maker — $100, was $150 Keurig The Keurig K-Classic is one of the best Keurig coffee makers on the market. It has a lot of features that contribute to a great cup of coffee. It can brew multiple K-Cup sizes and has a large 48-ounce reservoir that allows you to brew six cups before having to refill it. The K-Classic is as easy to use as any other Keurig coffee maker. It features an auto-off switch that turns off the coffee maker after it’s been idle for two hours, and simple button controls make brewing your favorite cup of coffee as easy as ever.
Keurig K-Elite coffee maker — $111, was $190 Keurig We consider the Keurig K-Elite one of the best single-cup coffee makers.
 It offers a ton of convenience, including the ability to brew cup sizes ranging from four ounces to 12 ounces. It has a button for strong brewing, which increases the strength and boldens the taste of your coffee’s flavor. It also has an iced setting, allowing you to brew coffee over ice for full-flavored, delicious iced coffee. The Keurig K-Elite has an extra large 75-ounce water reservoir that allows you to brew up to eight cups of coffee before having to refill, making it a good option for office break rooms and the like.
Keurig K-Supreme coffee maker— $139, was $170 Keurig The Keurig K-Duo is able to use K-Cup pods as well as ground coffee in order to brew a cup of your favorite varieties. The included glass carafe makes it easy to serve guests or pour yourself another cup, but this coffee maker also has single serve functionality, allowing you to make a pot for the whole office or a serving just for yourself. When it comes to smart features, the Keurig K-Duo coffee maker offers things such as strength control, which allows you to make the coffee that suits your tastes.
Keurig K-Duo coffee maker — $140, was $190 Keurig The Keurig K-Duo is able to use K-Cup pods as well as ground coffee in order to brew a cup of your favorite varieties. The included glass carafe makes it easy to serve guests or pour yourself another cup, but this coffee maker also has single serve functionality, allowing you to make a pot for the whole office or a serving just for yourself. When it comes to smart features, the Keurig K-Duo coffee maker offers things such as strength control, which allows you to make the coffee that suits your tastes.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats The best KitchenAid mixer Black Friday deals (and accessories from $17) The best Vitamix blender Black Friday deals — from just $125 Deals Cheapest Prices Deals Vacuums are expensive. Feature-rich vacuums, especially wet-dry vacuums that can handle all spills, are even pricier. Recognizing that there’s a gap in the market for more affordable options, Eureka has delivered one for under $200. Get excited. They're perfect for cleaning sticky messes, whether you made them, your kids, or your pets. But the most important distinction is that wet and dry vacuums can vacuum and mop all in one go, and you don't have to swap out devices, attachments, or anything else. At least, that's the case with Eureka's excellent NEW400 wet and dry all-in-one vacuum. It's even self-propelled to make it easier on you -- and it takes less effort to glide around your floors.
Here's the best part of all, though. For Black Friday, running from November 17 to November 27, you can save big on the Eureka NEW400, which is discounted to $140 instead of its normal $200 price. That's a total savings of $60, but really, even more, considering you're not having to buy a separate vacuum and mop. You can grab that deal below right now or keep reading to learn a little more about what the NEW400 has to offer.
Buy Now Why you should buy the Eureka NEW400 wet and dry vacuum during Black Friday Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home If you want to bring your thermostat into the age of smart tech, it's highly recommended that you check out the Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals that are available for Black Friday. The discounts on the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat aren't expected to last long though, as stocks are already probably running low. If you need help looking for Black Friday deals involving either smart home device, and if you're having trouble deciding which one to go for, you'll get your answers below. To complete your smart home, check out Nest Black Friday deals and Ring Black Friday deals too.
Best Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals Different retailers have slashed the prices of the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat, so there's no shortage of options on where you want to purchase these smart home devices. However, so you can secure your Nest Thermostat quickly, we've rounded up our favorite picks below -- you'll still have to act fast though, as the offers may end at any moment.
Google Nest Thermostat -- Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
