Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? A huge discount just landed on the Roomba 694 robot vacuum By Bruce Brown Close iRobot Don’t worry, it’s no Mandela effect, Prime Day did already happen earlier this year with the Prime Early Access Sale.
 At the time, there were plenty of yummy Prime Day deals to be had, and if you didn’t take advantage, well, it can really feel like you missed out big time. Amazon is back this October with the Prime Day Big Deal Days event, essentially a round two of Prime-worthy deals much closer to the holiday shopping season. If you’ve been looking for deals, or more specifically, some robot vacuum deals, listen up. This next deal on the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum is.
It cleans your home automatically, then returns to its dock to charge, and works with Amazon’s Alexa for voice commands, but it also can be controlled from a smart app. It’s everything you’d need in a smart vacuum, complete with pet-friendly cleaning — no more pet dander and hair everywhere. But it’s especially enticing when you consider it’s available for less than $200.
 If you buy today during the October Prime Day sale, you can save $76 off the usual $275 list price when you snap up the Roomba 694 for just $199.
 As with most Prime Day offers, this deal isn’t going to last long, so get in there.
Why you should buy the Roomba 694 robot vacuum It’s no surprise there are many Prime Day robot vacuum deals , but if you’re shopping for your first robot vacuum or want a dependable device from the best-known and best-selling brand without all the frills, the iRobot Roomba 694 robot vacuum is the top candidate. The Roomba 694 can clean your floors for up to 90 minutes before it takes itself back to its docking station to recharge the battery. This model has the power and smarts to get the job done. The Roomba 694’s 3-stage cleaning system sucks up dirt and debris using multi-surface brushes that adjust automatically to carpeting and hard floors. iRobot’s Dirt Detect technology directs the robot vacuum to the areas that need the most attention to be sure to clean them thoroughly. The Roomba 694 also has a special edge-cleaning brush the vacuum can use to remove dust, pet hair, dirt, and debris from corners and along walls.
The Roomba 694 also has a series of smart sensors that guide it around obstacles and furniture and keep it from falling off ledges or down stairs. You can configure and control the Roomba 694 with iRobot’s Home App using voice commands with Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant.
 You can set a cleaning schedule so the robot vacuum will clean your home on a regular basis, whether you’re home or traveling.
There’s no doubt that this Roomba 694 deal is a bargain. You can score iRobot’s excellent Roomba 694 robot vacuum for $199 today during the October Prime Day sale. You’ll save $76 off the $275 list price, but you need to decide now because this sale ends real soon.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Walmart just discounted this cordless vacuum and mop to $99 This Shark robot vacuum just had its price slashed from $249 to $129 You’ll be shocked how cheap this Roomba is ahead of Black Friday I sniffed out the best early Black Friday Roomba robot vacuum deals Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Robot Vacuums Smart Home You don't need to wait for Black Friday if you're thinking about taking advantage of robot vacuum deals because some retailers like Walmart and Best Buy are already offering massive discounts on these cleaning devices. Here are some of the top bargains that are available right now, but if you want to pocket the savings from any of them, you're going to have to be quick with your purchase. We're not sure how long it will take before their stocks run out or when their prices will return to normal, so you better hurry.
IonVac SmartClean 2000 -- $99, was $275 The IonVac SmartClean 2000 may be cheap, but it will get the job done in keeping your floors clean with 2,000Pa of suction power and a complete cleaning system that includes a roller brush, side brushes. and and rubber terrain wheels. You can start and stop cleaning sessions through the robot vacuum's remote, companion app, or a smart home device powered by Google Assistant or Amazon's Alexa. It's equipped with sensors to prevent it from bumping into furniture and falling down the stairs, and it can run for up to 100 minutes before going back to its charging station.
Smart Home If you were planning to purchase cleaning devices from Amazon's October Prime Day deals, you should know that some of the offers remain online even after Prime Big Deal Days 2023 has ended. For example, the iRobot Braava Jet M6 robot mop, originally $450, is still discounted by $101, so you'll only have to pay $349. There's no telling how long this lowered price will stay though, so if you want this robot mop to keep your floors spotless, you're going to have to complete the purchase for it as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the iRobot Braava Jet M6 robot mop The iRobot Braava Jet M6 is one of the best robot mops because it always does an amazing job at cleaning floors. It's equipped with a Precision Jet Spray that loosens and dirt and sticky messes without getting your furniture or walls wet, as well as disposable pads for mopping and sweeping that you can replace with reusable pads if you prefer. Using these, the robot mop will be able to clean liquid spills, mud from shoes and paws, and many other types of messes.
Smart Home If you missed the Prime Day Dyson cordless vacuum deals from Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023, don't worry because you can enjoy more offers from other retailers like Walmart, where the Dyson V8 Origin+ is on sale with a $170 discount. From its original price of $420, it's down to a more affordable $250, but probably not for long. If you want to get this cordless vacuum for much cheaper than usual, it's highly recommended that you stop wasting time -- push through with the purchase right now.
Why you should buy the Dyson V8 Origin+ The Dyson V8 Origin+ is a less expensive variant of the Dyson V8 Absolute -- they're not the latest versions of the brand's cordless vacuums, but that doesn't mean you should avoid the purchase. The Dyson V8 Origin+ remains a worthwhile investment because it's still a powerful cleaning device by today's standards, with the capability to suck in all kinds of dirt, debris, and pet hair from around your home. It can switch to a handheld vacuum for use in tight spaces like inside vehicles, and once you're done, you can easily empty its contents directly into your trash bin without having to touch what it picked up.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
