Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Roomba deals: Robot vacuums on sale as low as $180 By John Alexander Close Roomba is responsible for some of the best robot vacuums around so it makes sense to focus on them when it comes to sweet robot vacuum deals.
 Buy one and your household chore time will plummet, with a cute robot vacuum doing all the hard work for you. Below, we’ve picked out some of the best Roomba deals around. They’re all likely to be popular so don’t count on them being around forever. Here’s a quick look at why each is worth your time.
iRobot Roomba 694 — $180, was $275 iRobot Roomba i4 EVO — $210, was $400 iRobot Roomba i1+ — $288, was $469 iRobot Roomba i7+ (Refurbished) — $380, was $850 iRobot Roomba i3+ EVO — $400, was $550 iRobot Roomba j6+ — $500, was $800 iRobot Roomba j7 — $549, was $599 iRobot Roomba s9+ — $600, was $1,000 iRobot Roomba 694 — $180, was $275 Image used with permission by copyright holder Designed to be good for pet hair and thicker carpets, the iRobot Roomba 694 has all the essentials you would expect. Instead of using a single bristle brush, it has its dual multi-surface brush system that can flex to adjust to different floor types. It also adapts to different surfaces like hard wood or carpet. A patented dirt detect system helps it track down the dirtier areas of your home while you’ll appreciate its cleaning suggestions to save you time.
iRobot Roomba i4 EVO — $210, was $400 Image used with permission by copyright holder The iRobot Roomba i4 EVO provides a thorough clean that targets dirty areas and works around your schedule. When it finds a frequently dirty area, such as near your youngest child’s dinner seat, it’ll prioritize that area more than others. It also “knows” when peak pollen production is and when your pets are about to start shedding, once again ramping up its efforts to keep your home clean at those times. And if you aren’t satisfied with what its learnt (or just happen to have made a mess) you can command it to clean via voice. Just talk to it via Google Assistant or an Amazon Echo product and it’ll get started cleaning whenever and wherever you like.
iRobot Roomba i1+ — $288, was $469.
The iRobot Roomba i1+ allows you to completely forget about vacuuming and floor litter for a month or more at a time. This robot vacuum does its own thing, working around your schedule, and unloads in its docking/charging station. Depending on your home’s dirt and dust output, it could take between 30 and 60 days for the output to fill up the dock. And, when it does, all you need to do is dump it and everything is back to normal, ready to be filled again.
iRobot Roomba i7+ (Refurbished) — $380, was $850.
The iRobot Roomba i7+ is a powerful beast ready to tackle the messes of your cuddly beasts. How so? It features pet-hair resistant rubber brushes and a filter that keeps 99% of the allergy-causing cat and dog dander particles where they belong, inside the vacuum. Plus, it has ten times the suction power of the 600 series Roombas, giving it the power to get everything off the floor. The refurbishing job for this deal is manufacturer certified.
iRobot Roomba i3+ EVO — $400, was $550 iRobot The iRobot Roomba i3+ EVO doesn’t just suck up dirt all around you, it looks after itself. With self-cleaning properties, you rarely need to empty its bin. It heads back to its dock, empties the content there and in the future, you can empty it en masse. It’s capable of handling stubborn dirt and mess, cleaning intelligently in straight lines back and forth. Learning your cleaning habits, it’ll make suggestions right down to suggesting extra clean sessions during peak pollen or shedding season. It’s great for keeping your home clean in a mostly hands-off kind of way.
iRobot Roomba j6+ — $500, was $800.
While the iRobot Roomba j6+ isn’t quite what we’d call pet tech , it is a cleaning device that pet lovers should know about. Why? In addition to the mapping and dirt detection that we already love from Roombas, the j6+ detects pet waste and goes around it. While, at first glance, avoiding cleaning isn’t something we want our Roomba to do, it is in this case. Running over pet waste can get the Roomba far dirtier than we want it to be and will spread the mess around. And when there is a specific spot you want it to clean up, you just have to tell it. It’ll do a spot clean “near the oven” or “by the refrigerator” at your voice command.
iRobot Roomba j7 — $549, was $599.
Sometimes a beetle or turtle will get flipped on its back, its legs wiggling in the air. It becomes unable to move. The iRobot Roomba j7 has technology that keeps it from becoming like a stuck beetle or turtle. Not only does this model avoid pet messes (which prevents it from dragging them around the house) but it also avoids cords and other objects that it could get hung up on. What’s even neater is that it’ll send you a photo of the object in question and ask for your guidance about what to do in the future. It’s all about assisting you get the clean you want and sparing you big trouble.
iRobot Roomba s9+ — $600, was $1,000 Image used with permission by copyright holder Offering 40 times the power-lifting suction compared to other Roombas, the iRobot Roomba s9+ will provide the ultimate clean. Its 3-stage cleaning system loosens and lifts up dirt debris including pesky pet hair. It has PerfectEdge technology with advanced sensors and a specially designed corner brush for optimizing cleaning deep into corners ands along edges. It’s going to do a better job than you ever managed to. It’s efficient too, learning the best route around your home before heading back to base to empty itself, saving you from the need for 60 days. It’s truly going to revolutionize how good your carpets and floors look.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Best robot vacuum Black Friday deals: Save on Roomba, Shark, more Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more Deals Amazon Appliances Cheapest Prices Robot Vacuums Web Best Buy is one of the key retailers when it comes to offering fantastic Black Friday deals. That means it's the perfect place to check out awesome TV deals, laptop deals, and even great sales on appliances too. With hundreds of options newly available, we've helped you out by picking out some highlights. Below, you'll find all the best Best Buy Black Friday deals on TVs, laptops, gaming PCs, headphones, appliances, and other items too.
Best Buy Black Friday TV deals Smart Home If you think you need help in keeping your floors clean, you may want to think about taking advantage of robot vacuum deals. You won't even have to spend much, because there are offers like Walmart's $120 discount for the Shark ION RV754. This brings the robot vacuum's price down to just $129, which is nearly half its original price of $249. We're not sure how much time is remaining on this bargain though, so if you're interested, you should complete the purchase now to be able to pocket the savings.
Why you should buy the Shark ION RV754 robot vacuum The best robot vacuums make cleaning your floors very convenient, and that's something you'll also get from the Shark ION RV754. You'll be able to use either the SharkClean app on your smartphone, or voice commands through smart home devices that are powered by Amazon's Alexa or Google Assistant, to initiate the cleaning process. Once it starts, it can run for up to 120 minutes before it needs to go back to its charging station, and with its onboard sensors -- which are among the features to consider in our guide on how too choose a robot vacuum -- it can avoid falling down stairs and bumping into furniture.
Smart Home Adding a robot vacuum to your home is a great way to automate your cleaning. These nifty devices will clean your floors with little to no manual input -- freeing up your time for more exciting endeavors. Some are even capable of emptying their own dustbin or pull double duty as a mop. Not all robot vacuums are created equal, however, and finding the best robot vacuums takes a bit of digging.
The first thing you'll need to do when searching for a robot vacuum is set a budget. Robot vacuums run the gamut from a few hundred bucks to well over $1,000. Many of the best robot vacuums cost at least $500, and going any lower could result in poor performance or the need to constantly interact with your device (such as to empty its dustbin, untangle it from furniture, or help it back to its dock).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
