Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best October Prime Day robot vacuum deals happening now By Andrew Morrisey Close Cleaning a home can be tedious, especially if you live somewhere that has a lot of pollen, sand, or dust; it’s so easy to accumulate any of them if you don’t vacuum or clean up regularly. It’s often no fault of our own, either; with busy lives, even folks who work from home might have a hard time picking up a vacuum and doing some cleaning. Luckily, there is a solution in the form of Robot vacuums, and while they’re ordinarily quite expensive, Amazon’s Prime Big Deal Days 2023 event has lots of great robot vacuum deals you can take advantage of right now.
Today’s best Prime Day robot vacuum deals How we selected these Prime Day robot vacuum deals Not only will it help you with keeping your home clean, but you can actually get some big savings by grabbing something now, and you likely don’t even have to wait until Prime Day itself to see the best deals. Even better, it’s not only Amazon that is offering great deals and, in fact, we’re seeing some excellent Prime Day deals on robot vacuums from various retailers. There are even a lot of great Prime Day TV deals you can grab, and even some substantial discounts on the best smart home devices on the market. Whatever it is, you’ll likely find something to make your life easier during Prime Day in October.
Today’s best Prime Day robot vacuum deals iHome Juno Robot Vacuum — $99, was $199 iHome The iHome Juno is another robot vacuum option that allows you to affordably bring some modern convenience to your smart home. It features 2,000pa suction power and a 100 minute runtime. It works row by row in a neat and efficient path to avoid missing areas. You can even connect the Juno robot vacuum to the iHome Clean App to control it via your smartphone, schedule cleanings while you’re out on the go, and view the robot’s cleaning path. This robot vacuum has a drop sensor and mapping technology to keep it on the proper cleaning path and to avoid areas you don’t want it operating in.
Anker Eufy 25C Robot Vacuum — $129, was $250 Anker The Anker Eufy 25C robot vacuum is a quality option if you’re scouring the best robot vacuums for pet hair or need something that’s good on hardwood floors. It’s a very capable vacuum, which often gets overlooked with the modern smart capabilities found in most robot vacuums. It utilizes three brushes to loosen particles, a three-layer filtration system, and a dustbin to capture daily messes. Powerful suction makes cleaning thorough while a brushless motor keeps the Anker Eufy 25C as quiet as a robot vacuum can get. It’s able to run for up to 100 minutes on a single battery charge, and with its modern smarts, it’s able to return itself to its base station for charging all on its own.
Shark Ion Robot Vacuum — $170, was $250 Shark The Shark Ion is built with a trim-brush system — which combines side brushes, channel brushes, and a multi-surface brushroll — to handle debris on all surfaces. It’s able to work neatly into corners and along edges, and completely integrates into your home. It senses stairs and is able to avoid damaging furniture and walls, and can even recognize and maneuver around situations that may potentially get it stuck. The Shark Ion robot vacuum is able to sync up with your smartphone. The SharkClean app allows you to start and stop cleaning and to schedule cleanings whenever you want. Voice control compatibility includes Alexa and Google Assistant, and the Shark Ion is able to reach up to two hours of use between charges.
iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum — $250, was $275 iRobot The Roomba robot vacuum lineup is known the world over for its great design and smart capabilities, and the iRobot Roomba 694 is one of the most popular models available. It features a clean, minimal design that remains unobtrusive even when the Roomba is hard at work. It has the ability to dock itself automatically for recharging when its battery is low, and features many features that are often associated with more expensive robot vacuums. As you’ll find in many of the best Roomba robots, adaptive navigation sensors keep the Roomba going amidst you and your household objects, and it easily navigates around things such as furniture, feet, and even pets.
Shark Matrix Robot Vacuum — $400, was $500 Shark The Shark Matrix robot vacuum offers impressive suction that captures dirt and debris on carpets, hardwood floors, and other surfaces as well. It’s able to empty itself into its base after each cleaning, which allows you to go up to one month without having to empty it. Additional smarts include better mapping accuracy with 360-degree LiDAR vision. This quickly and accurately maps your home so the Shark Matrix robot vacuum can clean efficiently and detect objects that need avoiding.
Shark AI Ultra Robot Vacuum — $446, was $600 Shark With the Shark AI Ultra robot vacuum you’re getting some serious smarts. It features Shark’s 360-degree LiDAR vision that’s able to map your home and allows the robot vacuum to quickly adapt to new objects in its path. This makes it the perfect robot vacuum for homes with pets, or offices and workspaces where the furniture arrangement changes often. It’s able to run ups to 120 minutes on a charge, which should be enough to cover most homes. When it’s done cleaning or its battery is getting low, the Shark AI Ultra is able to return itself to its base station for recharging.
iRobot Roomba i3+ Evo Robot Vacuum —$500, was $550 iRobot You can’t go wrong with the iRobot Roomba i3+ Evo.
 It has all of the great features people have come to love in the Roomba, including a three-stage cleaning that’s as powerful as it comes. Life is made easier with the iRobot Roomba i3+ Evo by way of its ability to learn and map your home, allowing you to kick back and let modern technology do the heavy lifting of keeping your floors clean. With Google Assistant compatibility, on-demand cleaning is just a voice command away, and the Roomba i3+ EVO is even able to suggest appropriate cleaning times based on your schedule and previous cleaning habits. When its work is done, the Roomba i3+ EVO is smart enough to return to its charging station and empty itself.
Roborock Q7 Max+ Robot Vacuum — $580, was $870 Roborock If you’re looking for a premium and versatile robot vacuum option, the Roborock Q7 Max+ may be the one for you. It offers 2-in-1 functionality, as it’s also a mop in addition to a vacuum. As a vacuum, it has suction power of 4,200pa, which will leave virtually nothing behind while cleaning. You can even set the Roborock Q7 Max+ to vacuum and mop simultaneously to capture fine dirt that vacuuming alone might miss. This robot’s smarts include custom cleaning schedules, 3D mapping for precise cleaning, and voice commands with Amazon Alexa, Google Home, and Siri.
iRobot Roomba s9+ Robot Vacuum with Braava jet m6 Robot Mop — $1,249, was $1,449 iRobot The iRobot Roomba S9+ comes bundled with the iRobot Braava jet m6 robot mop. But the Roomba S9+ even stands alone as a great deal, and there’s a reason we consider it a nearly perfect robot.
 It features Roomba’s three-stage cleaning system and is able to produce 40 times the suction power of previous models. The S9+ is able to empty itself and the Clean Base Automatic Dirt Disposal is able to hold up 60 days worth of cleaning before needing to be emptied. It’s a premium robot vacuum option, and if you’re interested in how it stacks up against the competition, compare the Roomba S9+ in our Samsung Jet Bot AI+ vs. iRobot Roomba S9+ comparison.
How we selected these Prime Day robot vacuum deals Whether it’s big screen TVs or robot vacuums, we always take a lot of time and care to pick the best deals around so that when you spend any sort of money, you know you’re getting the best return for it. We manage it by using our many years of experience, not only in reviewing robot vacuums but also in keeping track of deals and historical pricing. While we draw on our already existing knowledge, such as our favorite robot vacuum cleaners , we also create content to help you decide what to buy, such as our guides on Roomba vs. Roborock: Which smart vacuum is better and Self-emptying robot vacuums: Do you really need one? both of which are handy if you’re just starting out.
We also look at the value of various configurations, such as whether the robot vacuum is good for hardwood or carpeting, whether it can handle pet hair, or even whether it has a self-emptying mode. We take all of that into account and assess accordingly before suggesting any deal, so be sure that you’re always getting the best you can buy for your money.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more This Roomba Robot Vacuum and Robot Mop bundle is 28% off today Best cordless vacuum deals: Get a Dyson-style vac for $89 6 early Black Friday robot vacuum deals happening right now iRobot Braava Jet M6 robot mop is over $100 off right now Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Appliances Cheapest Prices Robot Vacuums Smart Home Prime Day deals present a great opportunity to grab smart home devices that are usually just out of your price range; for instance, a quality robot vacuum. Right now the Roborock Q7 Max+ robot vacuum is down to $500 after a $370 discount. That brings this robot vacuum down from the luxury price range into the good investment price range. Grab it today, because Prime Big Deal Days ends tonight.
Why you should buy the Roborock Q7 Max+ robot vacuum The Roborock Q7 Max+ is an upscale robot vacuum and mop that competes with the best that Roomba has to offer. It comes with a charging station that also functions as a trash can, so the Roborock can return there and empty its dustbin before returning to finish the rest of its clean. That means you only have to empty the dustbin in the hub maybe once a week instead of the robot itself every day.
Smart Home It's a frustrating paradox that we see again and again. As a simple technology (such as vacuuming) gets improved upon, it can actually get more difficult to find a decent price on the product. It doesn't seem real that even when shopping through vacuum deals that it can be hard to find one under $100. You can think of it as a type of "technology inflation" with TVs being constantly filled with better and better tech. Walmart's Deals Holiday Kickoff, going through October 12th at 7PM EST, are working overtime to correct this issue, though. The Shark Freestyle Pro Cordless Vacuum, once $160, is now just $68. A true price for the people, and a savings of $92. Tap the button below to make it yours, or continue reading to see if it is really worth it.
Why you should buy the Shark Freestyle Pro Cordless Vacuum This is one of those deals where it really does come down to price. Even at Walmart, one of the nation's cheapest retailers, finding an affordable vacuum cleaner is tricky. On a normal day, anything bigger than a handheld car crevice cleaner will run you over $100. Even bagged, in 2023, vacuum cleaners seem to pull in big dollars. In short, when you see a functional vacuum cleaner under a $100, you buy it.
Smart Home If you're looking to step into the world of robot vacuums without paying an arm and a leg, the Roomba 676 is an entry-level device that won't break the bank. While the regular price of the Roomba 676 is $209, Walmart has heavily discounted it down to $139 for Prime Day, making it a steal if you're looking for a cheap robot vacuum and one of the better Roomba deals we've seen so far.
Why you should buy the iRobot Roomba 676 Robot Vacuum Probably one of our favorite features of iRobot vacuums like the Roomba 676 is how intelligent it is. Beyond doing a pretty good job of figuring out the parameters of your home and where not to go, it can also learn your schedule to stay out of your way. As such, it can adjust to your habits and routines so you don't have to be constantly stressing about it doing its job, not to mention the app integration, which lets you give it commands directly, which helps a lot with convenience. We also really appreciate the cliff detection feature, which stops it from accidentally throwing itself off a flight of stairs, saving your stairs and potentially having to buy a new Roomba.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
