Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni vs. Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni: Is the new X2 Omni worth it? By Jon Bitner Close Ecovacs launches new products more often than you’d expect, and it can be hard to keep up with all the changes from one product to the next. Two of the most popular robot vacuums in the company’s lineup are the Deebot X2 Omni and Deebot T20 Omni.
 Aside from having similar names, the X2 Omni and T20 Omni share many of the same features — including a self-emptying dustbin and retractable mops.
Pricing and availability Vacuuming Mopping Additional features Is the X2 Omni that much better than the T20 Omni? Despite these similarities, the newer X2 Omni costs hundreds more than the T20 Omni. But is it worth the added investment? Here’s a closer look at the X2 Omni and T20 Omni to help you decide which is best for your needs.
Pricing and availability Ecovacs The Deebot X2 Omni costs $1,500 and is available in black or white. The older Deebot T20 Omni is much cheaper at $1,100 and also comes in black or white. Ecovacs has a penchant for offering massive discounts on the two products, so don’t be surprised to see them on the market for much less during shopping holidays. For example, the T20 Omni can often be found for $900, while the X2 Omni is frequently listed for $1,200.
Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni vs. Roborock S8 Pro Ultra: Which is the best robot vacuum? Dyson 360 Vis Nav vs. Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni: which is the better robot vacuum? Roborock S7 Max Ultra vs. Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni: which is best? Winner: Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni Vacuuming Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Boasting up to 8,000 Pa of suction, the X2 Omni is one of the most powerful robot vacuums on the market. It uses a rubber roller brush to help pull hair and other debris out of carpets, and its square design allows it to clean edges and crevices better than the circular T20 Omni. The T20 Omni is no slouch — featuring 6,000 Pa of suction, a rubber roller brush, and an edge brush — though the extra 2,000 Pa of suction on the X2 Omni offers a noticeably better clean.
The two Ecovacs products are also capable of self-emptying their dustbins while docked. You can go up to 90 days without needing a replacement on the X2 Omni and up to 75 days on the T20 Omni.
Winner: Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni Mopping Ecovacs Mopping skills are similar between the X2 Omni and T20 Omni. Both use two rotating mopping plates to tackle stains and spills. They also apply constant pressure to the ground, making them well-suited for handling tough areas that might be missed by lesser robot mops.
The X2 Omni has a bit of an advantage over the T20 Omni, however, as it has a built-in water tank. This allows it to continuously dampen the mopping pads during prolonged mopping sessions. The T20 Omni, by comparison, can only wet its mops while in the dock. This isn’t an issue if you’re cleaning a small kitchen, but if your home consists primarily of hard floors, you’ll notice a clear difference as the pads begin to dry.
Winner: Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni Additional features Ecovacs Both products use hot water to clean their mops, hot air to dry their mops, and the Ecovacs smartphone app for control. They also both feature impressive mapping and navigation skills, allowing them to avoid objects in their way and accurately tackle all areas of your home.
When traveling on carpet, the X2 Omni and T20 Omni will both retract their mopping plates. The X2 Omni raises them a bit higher (15mm compared to 9mm), making it more suitable for thick carpets. Extra plush carpets will still get a bit damp when the X2 Omni rolls by — but it’s a marked improvement from the T20 Omni.
Other features found on both products include voice commands through the YIKO assistant, the option to set virtual boundaries and restricted zones, the ability to create cleaning schedules, and stair detection to prevent falls.
Winner: Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni Is the X2 Omni that much better than the T20 Omni? Ecovacs The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni is a better robot vacuum and mop than the T20 Omni. However, all of its best features are also available on the T20 Omni. This includes rotating mops, hot water rinsing and hot air drying, a self-emptying dustbin, and a robust smartphone app.
However, the X2 Omni simply performs all these tasks better than the T20 Omni. With more suction, the ability to continuously wet its mopping pads, and mops that retract 15mm, it’ll perform better in just about all situations.
If money isn’t a factor, then the X2 Omni is an easy recommendation. If you’re looking to save a few bucks, then forgo the X2 Omni and stick with the T20 Omni. The biggest drawback to the T20 Omni is its 9mm retractable mops — which dampen thick carpets while in transit. The lack of a built-in water reservoir isn’t a major deal breaker, as you can easily set a schedule to clean different areas at different times, ensuring even the largest home gets a proper clean.
While there’s no denying the X2 Omni is the better robot vacuum, don’t feel as if you’ll be missing out on much by opting for the T20 Omni. It’s essentially a watered-down version of the X2 Omni, and unless you need the most cutting-edge tech on the market, budget-minded shoppers will be treated well by the T20.
Editors' Recommendations Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni vs. iRobot Roomba Combo j9+: Which premium robot vacuum is best? Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni boasts a new square design and improved vacuuming skills Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni vs. Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni: Is the T20 worth it? Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni brings hot water washin, mop-lifting skills to Deebot lineup Roborock S8 Pro Ultra vs. Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni: which is the better robot vacuum? Robot Vacuums Versus Smart Home Ecovacs is one of the biggest names in the world of robot vacuums, and it’s looking to continue that dominance in 2023 with three new product launches. Ranging in price from $650 to $1,300, the trio of DEEBOT robot vacuums is designed for smart homes of different sizes and different needs, ensuring there’s something for every family.
The Deebot T10 Omni is the most compelling of the three -- and it’s also the most expensive at $1,300. It brings a lot to the table, however, as it features the new Ozmo Turbo 2.0 mopping system with spinning brushes, the ability to take voice commands without a third-party product, and a docking station with auto-cleaning and auto-emptying capabilities. It’s designed for homes of all sizes, but it should be the most enticing for large families that see plenty of foot traffic (or paw traffic) through their house.
Smart Home This content was produced in partnership with ECOVACS.
At this point, there's almost nothing A.I. can't do, at least in the digital realm. But when it comes to the physical world, and more practical applications, there are a few limitations remaining before the merger between modern robotics and advanced intelligence can really take off. We're close, but not quite there yet, which is unfortunate because it could profoundly change our lives. Imagine an A.I. system cleaning your whole home for you, for example. The floors, the walls, the drapes, your counters, you name it. Who wouldn't want that? Cleaning is a necessary yet tedious task that just gets worse the more you neglect it. ECOVACS is putting us one step closer to that reality with its latest one-for-all cleaning system, the DEEBOT T10 OMNI.
DEEBOT T10 OMNI comes with an all-in-one station that auto-empties the dustbin between runs, auto-cleans, and auto hot-air dries the mop, and offers a host of additional features to keep your hands almost completely free. The intuitive voice controls -- enabled by A.I. -- means you can issue commands simply and conveniently, or you can use the app. You can even use the app in combination with the device's Starlight front-facing camera to remotely monitor your home in real time, almost like a roamable security camera. You can see if Fido is being a good boy, or if he's chasing the vacuum again. Most importantly, A.I. is applied to a number of the system's functions to genuinely improve its power and capabilities. The T10 Omni leverages A.I., for instance, to prevent the spread of granular particles while it's vacuuming, so it's not just haphazardly spreading around a mess. It's all very impressive, but to understand just how impressive we should really do a deeper dive into what the DEEBOT T10 OMNI has to offer.
Buy Now Truly Optimized with A.I.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with ECOVACS.
Let's be honest, cleaning is no fun, but it's something we all have to do. As we inch closer to the holidays, especially for those hosting others, the need to clean is going to ramp up. What if a lot of the work could be automated, and taken over by smart technologies -- such as smart robotic vacuums? Well, it can, at least as far as vacuuming and mopping are concerned, and we have the lead on some excellent holiday robot vacuum deals, particularly from ECOVACS. The ECOVACS DEEBOT X1 family delivers industry-leading functions, smart features, and interactive experiences in the best possible ways. In what ECOVACS calls Phase 2.0, they’ve significantly enhanced the capabilities and functionality of the DEEBOT series. And with that smarter functionality comes more freedom for you, as the robots clean better than ever before -- saving you lots of time.
Above all, they make excellent Christmas gifts for family and friends, and even yourself. Why not gift yourself more time to spend with everyone you love? ECOVACS is offering a variety of holiday robot vacuum deals in the U.K., starting December 9th and running until December 22nd. The original XI OMNI will be £849, instead of its usual £1,499, so you’re saving an incredible £650 while that deal is active. In the U.S., it’ll be on sale for $999, down from $1,549. Now's a great time to snag a smart vacuum from ECOVACS that you can wrap up and nestle under the tree. See that deal below or keep reading to learn more about the ECOVACS DEEBOT X1 family and Phases 2.0 and 3.0.
Save Now (UK) Save Now (US) Next-generation smart functionality comes home for the holidays Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
