Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni vs. Roborock S8 Pro Ultra: Which is the best robot vacuum? By Jon Bitner Close The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni and the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra are two of the most expensive robot vacuums available. Aside from the ability to vacuum and mop, both can automatically empty their dustbin and clean their mopping pads. They also offer impressive navigation skills — allowing them to deftly move around your home without getting caught on toys, clothes, or other hazards.
Pricing and availability Vacuuming Mopping Additional features Which is the better robot vacuum and mop combo? If you’re shopping at the top end of the market, there’s no doubt you’ve encountered these two products. But which is the best robot vacuum : the Deebot X2 Omni or Roborock S8 Pro Ultra? Here’s everything you need to know before making a purchase.
Pricing and availability Ecovacs The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni costs $1,500 and is available in black and white. It’s often on sale, with prices dipping as low as $1,200 during big shopping holidays. The Roborock S8 Pro Ultra is slightly more expensive at $1,600 and is also available in black and white. It doesn’t go on sale quite as frequently as the X2 Omni — though Roborock products generally do see small discounts around the holidays.
Best robot vacuum Black Friday deals: Save on Roomba, Shark, more Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell: Which is best? Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Winner: Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni Vacuuming Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Both the X2 Omni and S8 Pro Ultra are excellent at vacuuming carpets and hard floors. The Ecovacs X2 Omni can muster up a staggering 8,000 Pa of suction, which makes it one of the most powerful robot vacuums around. Toss in an edge-sweeping brush, square design for better access to corners, and a rubber roller brush, and there are few robot vacuums that perform as well as the X2 Omni.
The Roborock S8 Pro Ultra maxes out at 6,000 Pa, but despite the lower power, it still manages to vacuum slightly better than the X2 Omni. Part of this is due to the DuoRoller Riser Brush, which uses two rubber brushes to untangle hair and other debris from your carpet more effectively than the single roller on the X2 Omni.
Like the X2 Omni, it also uses an edge-sweeping brush, though it lacks a square design and instead is the standard circular shape. However, the two rubber brushes are great at avoiding tangles while still keeping your carpet clean, giving the Roborock device a slight advantage.
Winner: Roborock S8 Pro Ultra Mopping Roborock Once again, both the X2 Omni and S8 Pro Ultra are at the top of the class. The X2 Omni employs two rotating mopping plates to tackle stains and spills. It also applies downward pressure while mopping, ensuring tough spots are cleaned properly. The X2 Omni lifts its mopping plates 15mm when traveling on carpet — but because the mopping fabric dangles down several millimeters, plush carpets still get slightly damp.
The X2 Omni features a built-in water reservoir, allowing it to staycontinuously wet its mops. This is ideal for large homes, as it ensures the mopping pads don’t dry out during long cleaning runs. Ecovacs says the reservoir is large enough to clean a house up to 4,400 square feet in a single run.
The S8 Pro Ultra uses a single mopping pad that rapidly vibrates to scrub floors. Like the X2 Omni, it applies downward pressure while mopping. It only lifts its mopping pad 5mm when traveling on carpet, which results in slightly damp carpets. Thankfully, its mopping pad isn’t nearly as thick as those on the X2 Omni, meaning the amount of “carpet wetting” is about even between the two products.
Unfortunately, the built-in water reservoir on the S8 Pro Ultra isn’t quite as robust as that of the X2 Omni, as it’s only capable of cleaning up to 3,230 square feet.
Winner: Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni Additional features Roborock As you’d expect from products that cost over $1,000, the X2 Omni and S8 Pro Ultra come with heaps of additional features. You’ll find the following on both robot vacuums: Self-emptying dustbins A dock that cleans the mopping pads with hot water A dock that dries mops after each cleaning run Smartphone apps to modify settings The ability to create restricted zones The ability to automatically detect different surfaces The ability to automatically adjust cleaning power for extra-dirty areas The X2 Omni and S8 Pro Ultra are both easy on the eyes, and the availability of both black and white models makes it easy to find something that’ll fit in with your home.
One of the most unique features available on the S8 Pro Ultra is the ability to charge the device during off-peak hours. This helps lower the ongoing operating costs of using a robot vacuum. Its smartphone app is also a bit more streamlined than the Ecovacs smartphone app, making it easier to find the features you’re looking for without too much digging. And while both are excellent navigators, the S8 Pro Ultra seemed to have less trouble finding its way around my home. I also had to rescue it fewer times than the X2 Omni, though both are leagues ahead of the competition.
Unique features available on the X2 Omni include support for two-way video calls and the built-in YIKO voice assistant. YIKO isn’t quite as robust as you’d expect for such a premium device, and there’s a good chance you’ll completely ignore it, opting instead to set up an automated cleaning schedule. And while the two-way video call option is nice, the low angle makes it less effective than a dedicated indoor camera.
Winner: Roborock S8 Pro Ultra Which is the better robot vacuum and mop combo? Roborock At the end of the day, it’s impossible to go wrong with either the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni or the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra. These two premium robot vacuum and mop combos offer everything you’d want from this type of device, giving you an automated cleaning routine that can go weeks without any manual intervention. Most homes will be well-served regardless of which one is picked — so consider snagging whichever one is cheapest.
Alternatively, consider picking up the S8 Pro Ultra if your home is mostly carpet and the X2 Omni if your home is mostly hard floors. While performance is similar across both devices, the dual-roller brush system on the S8 Pro Ultra is impressive and great at avoiding tangles. Meanwhile, the dual rotating mopping pads on the X2 Omni are well-suited for tackling vast rooms with hard floors.
Still uncertain which is best for your home? Then simply pick the one you think looks more stylish. These two luxurious robots are evenly matched at just about every turn — so whichever one will look best in your home is the one you should pick up.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces This Shark robot vacuum just had its price slashed from $249 to $129 The best robot vacuums for 2023 This Roomba Robot Vacuum and Robot Mop bundle is 28% off today Robot Vacuums Versus Smart Home When it comes to keeping your floors clean, robot vacuums and cordless vacuums are among the best products you can buy. Robot vacuums have become increasingly popular over the past few years -- thanks to their ability to clean your home autonomously -- but cordless vacuums offer plenty of advantages over their robotic counterparts.
Deciding between the two isn't easy, and thankfully, it's hard to make a wrong decision. Both are well-equipped to clean your floors, but there are some big trade-offs you'll have to make for each class. So, which is better? Robot vacuums or cordless vacuums? Smart Home Needing a little help around the house is a good reason to embrace the conveniences of modern technology. A robot vacuum makes a good helping hand, and iRobot’s Roomba lineup is one of the most popular. Now is also a great time to shop, as robot vacuum deals are hot with early Black Friday sales providing some good discounts. A lot can go into determining how to choose a robot vacuum, but if you know what you need and a Roomba fits the bill, these are the best Black Friday Roomba deals available right now.
iRobot Roomba 694 — $250, was $275 The Roomba robot vacuum lineup is known the world over for its great design and smart capabilities, and the iRobot Roomba 694 is one of the most popular models available. It features a clean, minimal design that remains unobtrusive even when the Roomba is hard at work. It has the ability to dock itself automatically for recharging when its battery is low, and has many features that are often associated with more expensive robot vacuums. As you’ll find in many of the best robot vacuums, adaptive navigation sensors keep the Roomba 694 going amidst you and your household objects, and it easily navigates around things such as furniture, feet, and even pets.
Smart Home Adding a robot vacuum to your home is an easy way to automate your floor-cleaning chores. Most robots produced today can vacuum, mop, and take care of minor maintenance tasks such as emptying dustbins and cleaning their mopheads. But no matter how fancy the robot, it'll eventually stop working and need to be replaced.
However, the life span of a robot vacuum varies greatly from product to product. Depending on how often you're performing preventative maintenance, you might be able to extend its life and keep it in your home for years. Here's a look at how often you should replace your robot vacuum, as well as things you can do to make it last longer.
How long does a robot vacuum last? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
