Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? At $99, Walmart is practically giving away this robot vacuum By Jennifer Allen Close iHome It’s hard to find robot vacuum deals cheaper than the iHome AutoVac Juno Robot Vacuum that’s available at Walmart right now. It usually costs $199 but right now, you can buy it for just $99. A saving of 50% and a mere $99 for a robot vacuum? Pretty sweet, right? Let’s take a look at what to expect from it before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the iHome AutoVac Juno Robot Vacuum iHome isn’t a name you’ll see on our look at the best robot vacuums but this particular model holds a lot of promise. The iHome AutoVac Juno Robot Vacuum offers 2,000pa of strong suction power and 100 minutes of runtime. It’s smart enough to have mapping technology too so you can easily set it up to clean your floors, row by row, and by developing an efficient cleaning path so it won’t miss anywhere important.
Via the iHome app, you can schedule cleaning as well as view the cleaning path so you can see exactly what the iHome AutoVac Juno Robot Vacuum is doing while you’re not around. Thanks to its three brush system and HEPA filter, it can cope with both carpets and hard floors ensuring it won’t miss debris along the way. It can cope with pet hair too with no hair wrap or any mess left behind.
It’s simple to use as well with the iHome AutoVac Juno Robot Vacuum having one-touch controls to make it easier to use, while it has a drop sensor so you don’t have to worry about it falling downstairs. There’s also support for Google and Alexa so you can use voice commands instead of the app or on-device buttons. A slim build, the iHome AutoVac Juno Robot Vacuum can tackle under tight spaces as well ensuring it matches with everything you could want when learning how to choose a robot vacuum.
 It’ll even return to base when it’s low on charge.
With all the core features you need from a robot vacuum, the iHome AutoVac Juno Robot Vacuum is a bargain at $99. Usually priced at $199, you’re saving $100 when you buy from Walmart today. It’s the ideal entry point for anyone keen to see how a robot vacuum can enhance their life.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more Dyson Corrale Straightener is $260 off in Walmart’s Black Friday sale Walmart just discounted this cordless vacuum and mop to $99 This self-emptying robot vacuum is discounted from $499 to $198 Deals Robot Vacuums Smart Home Dyson deals are always popular during Black Friday, and this year isn't an exception. If you want to get one of the brand's cordless vacuums, you're going to have to beat all the other interested shoppers in taking advantage of Walmart's $170 discount for the Dyson V8 Origin+, which brings the device's price down to $250 from $420 originally. This offer is one of the retailer's early Black Friday deals, but there's a chance that it doesn't make it to the shopping holiday itself as stocks may sell out quickly. Proceed with the purchase now if you want to get this cordless vacuum for cheaper than usual.
Why you should buy the Dyson V8 Origin+ cordless vacuum The Dyson V8 Origin+ is an older model of the brand's line of cordless vacuums, but several years after its release, it's still a worthwhile purchase because of the convenience that it provides when cleaning your home. The device's powerful motor will pick up dirt, debris, and pet hair, among other things, while its whole-machine filtration will make sure that it expels cleaner air to protect your family from pollutants. Once you're done cleaning, a simple click opens the dust bin so you can easily dispose its contents into a trash bag.
Smart Home You don't have to wait for Black Friday to access amazing cordless vacuum deals, because there are early offers that you can shop right now like Walmart's $201 discount for the Shark Cordless Pro IZ540H. Instead of $399, you'll only have to pay $198 for this cordless vacuum, which will provide immense help when you're cleaning your home. It's not going to stay this cheap for long though, so if you want to get it for less than half-price, you know what to do -- add it to your cart and check out as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the Shark Cordless Pro IZ540H vacuum The Shark Cordless Pro IZ540H offers powerful suction to be able to pick up all kinds of dirt and debris from different floor types, including carpets and hard floors, and it's also equipped with Clean Sense IQ technology that detects particles that you can't see and automatically increases power to get them. The cordless vacuum also comes with the PowerFins Plus brushroll, so it won't have any trouble with pet hair and larger piles of dust.
Smart Home Looking for one of the best Keurig deals? Walmart has started its Black Friday deals early with a huge discount on the Keurig K-Express Essentials Single Serve K-Cup Pod Coffee Maker. Usually priced at $59, it's down to $35 for a limited time only at Walmart so you save $24 off the usual price. Sure to be a big hit with coffee lovers, let's take a quick look at what it offers, or you can simply hit the buy button now.
Why you should buy the Keurig K-Express Essentials Single Serve K-Cup Pod Coffee Maker Keurig makes some of the best coffee makers around. With the Keurig K-Express Essentials Single Serve K-Cup Pod Coffee Maker, you get a 36 ounce removable reservoir with room to accommodate travel mugs up to seven inches tall with the drip tray removed. Via the coffee maker, you can make a fresh cup of Joe in mere minutes. It's all done through simple button controls. All you have to do is add a K-Cup pod and use the controls to make a brew. There are options for three different cup sizes -- six ounces, eight ounces, and 10 ounces -- so you can find just the right size for your mood at the time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
