Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This is hands-down the best Prime Day robot vacuum deal today By Albert Bassili Close iRobot If you’re looking to step into the world of robot vacuums without paying an arm and a leg, the Roomba 676 is an entry-level device that won’t break the bank. While the regular price of the Roomba 676 is $209, Walmart has heavily discounted it down to $139 for Prime Day , making it a steal if you’re looking for a cheap robot vacuum and one of the better Roomba deals we’ve seen so far.
Why you should buy the iRobot Roomba 676 Robot Vacuum Probably one of our favorite features of iRobot vacuums like the Roomba 676 is how intelligent it is. Beyond doing a pretty good job of figuring out the parameters of your home and where not to go, it can also learn your schedule to stay out of your way. As such, it can adjust to your habits and routines so you don’t have to be constantly stressing about it doing its job, not to mention the app integration, which lets you give it commands directly, which helps a lot with convenience. We also really appreciate the cliff detection feature, which stops it from accidentally throwing itself off a flight of stairs, saving your stairs and potentially having to buy a new Roomba.
As for cleaning, the Roomba 676 has a three-stage cleaning system that’s pretty advanced and can handle even relatively difficult things like pet hair. That makes it an excellent robot vacuum to grab if you have pets; plus, the multi-surface brush doesn’t cause any issues when switching from carpet to hard floors, so it’s very versatile. In terms of vacuuming, you get about 90 minutes of it before the unit has to go back to recharge, which isn’t bad at all for such a powerful little vacuum. In fact, once it learns your patterns, you probably won’t even notice it having to charge.
All in all, if you’re going to get a budget-oriented robot vacuum, then the Roomba 676 is a good choice, especially with the deal from Walmart discounting it heavily down to $139. Of course, if you don’t like what you see, there are a lot of other great Prime Day robot vacuum deals you can take advantage of.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Waterpik Black Friday deals on water flossers and toothbrushes Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Robot Vacuums Web Best Buy is pulling out the big guns this Black Friday to compete with Amazon Black Friday deals, and we're seeing a lot of great deals across the board, whether you want a laptop, a vacuum cleaner, or a fitness tracker. Of course, there are a lot of deals to go through, so we've done our best to collect some of our favorite ones below so that you don't have to. We'll also be updating this page as more and better deals come along, so be sure to check back regularly. Also, be sure to check out the Walmart Black Friday sale, as it's also going all out in the hopes of competing with Amazon.
Top 3 Best Buy Black Friday Deals Nest Hub -- $60, was $100 Smart Home It may seem early, but the best Black Friday deals are starting to trickle out ahead of the major holiday shopping event. It doesn't really matter what you're looking for, specifically, there are so many deals and discounts that now's probably the best time to shop. There's almost no sense in waiting until the official Black Friday or Cyber Week, unless you've seen a deal you know you want. Retailers actually raise prices many times before these big sales so the discounts aren't as good as you think they are. Speaking of deals, name brand goods are on sale at incredible prices right now, like KitchenAid stand mixers. They can take your food prep and ingredient mixing to new heights. We've scoured the various retailer sites to find the best of the best KitchenAid stand mixer Black Friday deals, and they're all here in one place. Why not take a look? Best KitchenAid stand mixer Black Friday deals Stand mixers are versatile tools that you can use to mix, blend, and concoct various ingredients for meals and food prep. KitchenAid, obviously, is a well known brand in the kitchen and cooking world and its stand mixers are known for quality and reliability.
Smart Home Vitamix makes some of the best blenders around, and they're a great investment if you plan on putting them to work every day. With Black Friday deals going on right now, this is your chance to upgrade to a great blender for a similarly excellent price. We've picked out the very best Vitamix blender deal below along with some other options you might want to consider buying.
Best Vitamix blender Black Friday deal Vitamix Explorian E310 blender -- $290, was $350 The Vitamix Explorian E310 blender is perfect for making a variety of different textures and liquids. It has 10 variable speeds plus a pulse setting so you can easily use it to prepare soup, make fresh salsa, or even knead dough. It has a powerful 2 HP motor for handling even the toughest of ingredients while its 48 ounce container is perfect for formulating medium-size batches of whatever you're cooking. It's easily cleaned in the dishwasher or you can add soap and warm water and the machine can clean itself in just 30 to 60 seconds.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
