Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Prime Day deals get you this Roomba robot vacuum for $165 By John Alexander Close.
With fall here it, school is back, the air is getting comfortable again, and everybody wants to squeeze in extra outdoor time in the last nice days before winter strikes. It sounds nice, but the reality is that it also means a lot of leaf litter and tracked dirt into the home. Luckily, Amazon also started its event today. Not only does that mean a ton of fantastic October Prime Day deals on a variety of tech essentials but it also means you can get the iRobot Roomba 692 to clean up all the extra mess. Tap the button below to grab yours for just $200, which is $100 off the standard $300 price. Or, if you’re a Prime member, you can get it for $165, which is $135 off the standard price.
Why you should buy the iRobot Roomba 692 Beyond the extra savings that make this October Prime Day robot vacuum deal exciting, the iRobot Roomba 692 just happens to be a great vacuum. Its got a 3-stage cleaning system that loosens dirt from carpets and utilizes a smart, adaptive cleaning pattern. Plus, it learns the rhythm of your daily life, so results are seen, not work. When you do want to see your iRobot Roomba 692 get busy, you can do so easily, via voice command. Just tell it to clean via Google Assistant or Alexa and it will spring to life. It even automates its own maintenance, at least to some degree, at is automatically returns to its docking station to recharge before 90 minute battery depletes. While you’ll have to empty it periodically, it’s a lot more convenient than vacuuming with a standard push model.
Ready to get the fall leaf litter on your carpet under control? Just tap the button below to get your iRobot Roomba 692. Right now it is just $200 or, if you’re a Prime member, $165. That’s $100 or $135 off the standard $300 price, respectively. Here’s how to join Prime free, in case you’ve forgotten. Finally, just in case you’ve got leaf litter and lawn care on the brain, check out our collection of October Prime Day robot lawn mower deals to automate even more of your chores away.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more The best Black Friday refrigerator deals you can shop right now This self-emptying robot vacuum is discounted from $499 to $198 Early Walmart Black Friday deal gets you this Keurig for $35 Deals Amazon Robot Vacuums Smart Home If you think you need help in keeping your floors clean, you may want to think about taking advantage of robot vacuum deals. You won't even have to spend much, because there are offers like Walmart's $120 discount for the Shark ION RV754. This brings the robot vacuum's price down to just $129, which is nearly half its original price of $249. We're not sure how much time is remaining on this bargain though, so if you're interested, you should complete the purchase now to be able to pocket the savings.
Why you should buy the Shark ION RV754 robot vacuum The best robot vacuums make cleaning your floors very convenient, and that's something you'll also get from the Shark ION RV754. You'll be able to use either the SharkClean app on your smartphone, or voice commands through smart home devices that are powered by Amazon's Alexa or Google Assistant, to initiate the cleaning process. Once it starts, it can run for up to 120 minutes before it needs to go back to its charging station, and with its onboard sensors -- which are among the features to consider in our guide on how too choose a robot vacuum -- it can avoid falling down stairs and bumping into furniture.
Smart Home One of the best robot vacuum deals is over at Amazon today. You can buy the iRobot Roomba s9+ robot vacuum and Braava Jet m6 robot mop bundle for $899 saving you a huge $350 off the regular price of $1,249. Working out at a 28% discount, this is one of the best ways to clean up your home with the minimum amount of effort on your part. If you're keen to dive in and make the investment, read on while we take you through what you need to know.
Why you should buy the iRobot Roomba s9+ robot vacuum and Braava Jet m6 robot mop bundle Considered the most versatile robot vacuum in our look at the best robot vacuums, the iRobot Roomba s9+ robot vacuum and Braava Jet m6 robot mop bundle is instantly a tempting proposition. In conjunction with one of the best robot mops, you get the ultimate cleaning experience.
Smart Home For many people the day is best kicked off with a nice cup of coffee. If you’re one of these people, not only do we have a great cup of coffee in store for you, but also some savings. Many of the best coffee makers often see discounts, and that’s certainly the case with one of the best names in coffee makers: Keurig. There are quite a few Keurig coffee makers seeing major price drops right now, including several in consideration for the best Keurig coffee makers. We’ve done the heavy lifting of tracking them all down, so read onward for more details on how to save on a Keurig coffee maker, and for more information on which Keurig coffee maker may be best for you.
Keurig K-Mini coffee maker — $50, was $100 The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker is a stylish coffee maker that looks good in any kitchen or break room. It suits smaller spaces particularly well, as it’s less than five inches wide. Despite its smaller size, it’s still fully capable. It can brew any cup size between 6-12 ounces, and it’s able to brew coffee, tea, cocoa, and even iced beverages. The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker has easy cord storage for transport and tidying up your countertop after use, and an energy efficiency feature turns the coffee maker off automatically 90 seconds after your last brew.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
