Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? You don’t want to miss this Roomba deal — save $28 By Jennifer Allen Close iRobot Amazon has one of the best robot vacuum deals around today with $28 off the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum. Ordinarily priced at $275, it’s down to $247 for a limited time making it an instant best seller in the genre at Amazon. You’re going to need to be fast to snag this deal though so let’s take a quick look at what you need to know about it before you commit to a purchase.
Why you should buy the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum No one likes vacuuming manually. It’s an annoying chore that’s vital for making your home look and feel cleaner. The iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum takes out much of that effort so you can leave the robot vacuum to do all the hard work for you. It’s smart enough to learn your cleaning habits before automatically creating a customized cleaning schedule so it does the best job for you every time, just like the best robot vacuums.
 It also has Alexa and Google Assistant compatibility so you can use your voice to command the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum to get to work.
None of that would matter if the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum was poor at cleaning but it’s brilliant thanks to its three-stage cleaning system. It also has dual multi-surface brushes that grab dirt from carpets and hard floors. There’s an edge-sweeping brush as well to handle corners and edges effectively. If you’ve been reading up on how to choose a robot vacuum , you’ll know how important this is.
Other useful features include cliff detect so there’s no risk of the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum falling downstairs along with patented dirt detect technology so it knows to home in on the dirtier areas of your home. An auto-adjust cleaning head ensures that the height of the vacuum automatically adapts to your needs so you get a thorough clean every time.
With all the essentials you need from a robot vacuum, the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum is a fantastic deal at $247 right now at Amazon. Usually priced at $275, you’re saving $28 off the regular price which soon adds up. Check it out now before the deal ends soon.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Black Friday Deal: Grab Eureka NEW400 wet-dry vac for cleaning all spills Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Best robot vacuum Black Friday deals: Save on Roomba, Shark, more Deals Amazon Robot Vacuums Smart Home Shark makes a whole range of products, from hair dryers to air purifiers, and they're pretty reasonably priced compared to similar products from other brands. Even better, with November becoming the new Black Friday, there are a ton of great early Black Friday deals you can take advantage of on Shark products. Naturally, these deals are distributed across several different retailers, so we've done our best to collect the best deals and bring them to you here. Also, be sure to check back regularly as we update this page with newer and better deals.
Best Shark Hair Dryer Black Friday Deals While Shark might not be as fancy of a company as Dyson, they do make a pretty good hair dryer, and it even looks quite similar to the Dyson Supersonic. Luckily, none of Shark's products are as expensive, so you can get yourself a high-quality hair dryer for a pretty good price. But if it has to be a Dyson, check out Dyson Black Friday deals.
Health & Fitness NordicTrack is one of the most popular names in fitness equipment, and as tech has infiltrated more and more products over the past couple of decades, NordicTrack has kept up by integrated some great smart features into its treadmills and exercise bikes. All of this equipment is seeing some major discounts for Black Friday, and many retailers have kicked off the sales event early. We’ve tracked down all of the best NordicTrack Black Friday deals you can shop right now, so read onward to land some savings for your fitness routine.
Best NordicTrack treadmill Black Friday deals With winter around the corner, a treadmill makes a great way to get your run in without having to face the low temperatures of early morning. And a treadmill doesn’t even have to be one of the best treadmills to keep you running on snowy or rainy days. NordicTrack makes numerous treadmill models, and several of them are seeing substantial price drops for Black Friday. A NordicTrack treadmill also makes a great pairing with one of the best fitness trackers or one of the best smartwatches, with smart features built into the treadmill often able to integrate with these devices.
Smart Home Black Friday is right around the corner, but we’re already starting to see some impressive Black Friday deals hitting the internet. Retailers like Best Buy, Amazon, and Walmart are all discounting a range of tech right now, and that includes some tech for the fitness enthusiasts out there. Peloton and NordicTrack are two of the most popular brands when it comes to fitness equipment (there are NordicTrack Black Friday deals too), with many people leaning toward Peloton as their favorite. Peloton particularly stands out when it comes to exercise bikes, offering a range of bikes with integrated smart features to help with a great workout. You’ll find some Peloton products among the current Black Friday deals, and we’ve tracked down the best Peloton Black Friday deals you can currently shop.
Best Peloton Black Friday deals If you’re looking to add an exercise bike to your home gym or daily fitness routine, you can do so with some savings this Black Friday shopping season. Peloton has a couple of exercise bikes seeing a Black Friday discount. A lot of other Peloton fitness equipment is currently discounted as well, including things like dumbbells, and cycling shoes made to strap into a Peloton bike. If you’re looking to improve your fitness routine with some Peloton equipment, now’s the time to save along the way.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
