Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products iRobot Roomba Combo j5+ vs. iRobot Roomba Combo j7+: Which is the better robot vacuum? By Jon Bitner Close The Roomba Combo j7+ was the first robot vacuum from iRobot to incorporate a swinging mop arm into its design. This allowed it to mop and vacuum simultaneously, thanks to the ability to move its mop up when traveling on carpet. Now, iRobot has added the Roomba Combo j5+ to its lineup – and while it doesn’t use the same swinging arm technology, it’s still capable of mopping and vacuuming at the same time.
Pricing and availability Vacuuming Mopping Additional features Is the older Roomba Combo j7+ better than the Combo j5+? But is the newer iRobot Roomba Combo j5+ a better robot vacuum than the old Combo j7+? Here’s a closer look to help you determine which one is best for your floors.
Pricing and availability iRobot The Roomba Combo j7+ costs $1,000 and the Combo j5+ costs $800. Both, however, are often on sale for hundreds less. But despite its age, the older Combo j7+ is almost always more expensive than the newer Combo j5+.
Best robot vacuum Black Friday deals: Save on Roomba, Shark, more This Shark robot vacuum just had its price slashed from $249 to $129 You’ll be shocked how cheap this Roomba is ahead of Black Friday Winner: Roomba Combo j5+ Vacuuming iRobot Unfortunately, iRobot doesn’t readily provide suction details for its robot vacuum lineup. However, both the Combo j7+ and Combo j5+ are listed as having “standard” cleaning power. They also both offer an edge-sweeping brush and the ability to automatically adapt their suction for carpets and hard floors, and they feature dual multi-surface rubber brushes. Both products include charging docks capable of auto-emptying the robot’s dustbin for up to 60 days.
Winner: Tie Mopping iRobot The Combo j7+ begins to differentiate itself from the Combo J5+ with its mopping skills. The Combo j7+ features a swinging mop arm that fully retracts when traveling on carpet. The Combo j5+ doesn’t. Instead, it uses a bin-swapping feature that lets you choose to either mop or vacuum and mop. The Combo j5+ won’t, however, automatically avoid mopping carpet – so you’ll need to be careful with how you set up your zones to prevent your carpet from getting wet.
The Combo j7+ uses SmartScrub technology to clean floors, which allows it to move the mop back and forth while also applying pressure to the floor. This results in a deeper clean and the ability to tackle tough stains.
Neither product is capable of automatically refilling mopping solution – so you’ll still need to keep an eye on this after each cleaning cycle.
Winner: Roomba Combo j7+ Additional features iRobot Aside from its swinging mop arm and additional mopping chops, the Combo j7+ offers much of the same functionality as the cheaper Combo j5+. This includes the ability to set No Mop Zones, the option to clean by room or set specific cleaning zones, collision detection that avoids objects in the robot’s cleaning path, and the ability to navigate under furniture and avoid stairs.
Other cool features found on both robots include voice commands, personalized cleaning recommendations, and support for Alexa , Google Assistant , and Siri.
Winner: Tie Is the older Roomba Combo j7+ better than the Combo j5+? Truth be told, it’s hard to go wrong with either product. The newer Combo j5+ is billed as an affordable alternative to the Combo j7+, and it’s ideal for homes without carpet. Since it won’t automatically stow away its mop while traveling on carpet, homes with a mixture of carpet and hard floors will find it less than ideal. But if hard floors comprise most of your home, you can save a few bucks by opting for the Combo j5+.
Keep in mind that the Combo j7+ does offer a few mopping-related perks (such as SmartScrub). Its biggest selling point, however, is the swinging mop arm, which allows it to travel across carpets without getting them wet. This makes it a great companion for homes with both carpet and hard floors. And if you’re looking for a superior mopping experience, the SmartScrub technology found on the Combo j7+ makes it a better option than the Combo j5+.
Looking at other products in the iRobot family? Be sure to check out how the Combo j7+ stacks up to the Combo j9+.
 If you want something newer, check out how the Combo j5+ compares to the Combo j9+.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces This Roomba Robot Vacuum and Robot Mop bundle is 28% off today Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? I sniffed out the best early Black Friday Roomba robot vacuum deals Appliances Robot Vacuums Versus Smart Home Adding a robot vacuum to your home is an easy way to automate your floor-cleaning chores. Most robots produced today can vacuum, mop, and take care of minor maintenance tasks such as emptying dustbins and cleaning their mopheads. But no matter how fancy the robot, it'll eventually stop working and need to be replaced.
However, the life span of a robot vacuum varies greatly from product to product. Depending on how often you're performing preventative maintenance, you might be able to extend its life and keep it in your home for years. Here's a look at how often you should replace your robot vacuum, as well as things you can do to make it last longer.
How long does a robot vacuum last? Smart Home Robot vacuums offer a hands-free way to keep your floors clean. But like all electronics, they sometimes run into issues that prevent them from working as intended. For robot vacuums, a common issue is when a device stops moving, rendering it all but useless. Figuring out what's causing your robot to stop moving isn't straightforward, as there are several different reasons this could be happening.
If you're trying to figure out how to fix a robot vacuum that stops moving, here's a quick rundown of everything you should check, along with general tips on how to solve the problem.
Check its wheels Smart Home You don't need to wait for Black Friday if you're thinking about taking advantage of robot vacuum deals because some retailers like Walmart and Best Buy are already offering massive discounts on these cleaning devices. Here are some of the top bargains that are available right now, but if you want to pocket the savings from any of them, you're going to have to be quick with your purchase. We're not sure how long it will take before their stocks run out or when their prices will return to normal, so you better hurry.
IonVac SmartClean 2000 -- $99, was $275 The IonVac SmartClean 2000 may be cheap, but it will get the job done in keeping your floors clean with 2,000Pa of suction power and a complete cleaning system that includes a roller brush, side brushes. and and rubber terrain wheels. You can start and stop cleaning sessions through the robot vacuum's remote, companion app, or a smart home device powered by Google Assistant or Amazon's Alexa. It's equipped with sensors to prevent it from bumping into furniture and falling down the stairs, and it can run for up to 100 minutes before going back to its charging station.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
