Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Roomba vs. Roborock: Which smart vacuum is better? By Tyler Lacoma Close Roomba and Roborock are two of the biggest names in the world of robot vacuums.
 Offering advanced smart technology, robust cleaning skills, and the ability to empty their own dustbins, robot vacuums from these two manufacturers are always easy to recommend. But if you’re trying to compare models across the two brands, you might run into a bit of trouble due to the sheer volume of options available in 2023.
Design Available models Battery life Cleaning power Smart features What about mopping capabilities? Pricing Conclusion: Which robot vacuum brand is best? Are you trying to find the right robot vacuum for your home, but unsure if you should consider Roomba or Roborock? Here’s an in-depth look at the two companies to help you decide which is best.
John Velasco / Digital Trends Design When placed side by side, the rounded designs of Roombas and Roborocks look very similar to one another. They both use rubber brushes and automatic adjustments for uneven surfaces and replaceable filters for air filtration. However, there are a few differences worth noting. Roborock has more hybrid models with additional capabilities for mopping (more on this below), and Roomba has more models with side brushes and a flattened front (like the S9 series) to help clean baseboards and corners more effectively.
This has started to change recently, with Roborock offering slimmer products and Roomba launching a handful of robot vacuum and mop combinations. Both companies also offer products with different charging dock designs — though Roomba tends to offer a more compact footprint.
Best robot vacuum Black Friday deals: Save on Roomba, Shark, more The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces The best video doorbells for 2023 Winner: Roomba Available models There are several Roomba models up for grabs, though they largely fall into one of three categories — robot vacuums, robot mops, and robot vacuum and mop combos. This includes products such as the Combo j9+, the j9+, and Combo i5+. For an up-to-date list of all products, check out Roomba’s official store page.
Roborock also has a number of series, including the S8, S7, Q7, and E5 (you can see how it can be easy to confuse these two brands during consumer research). For a full list of products, check out Roborock’s official store page.
While these lines may seem similar, Roborock really delivers when it comes to options. Overall, Roborock has a broader selection of robot vacuums, which gives you more choices and a better chance to find a model that’s just right for you.
Winner: Roborock Battery life The most advanced Roomba models last for about two hours (depending on the modes used and other factors), and most models have the ability to return back to their base stations and charge up again, then return to their cleaning duties. That makes battery life less of a factor than it once was, but it can still matter when dealing with particularly large rooms or cutting down on wear and tear.
Roborock’s vacuums can vary, but many have larger batteries that can last up to 200 minutes (again, this can vary based on cleaning modes). Roborock models also typically include the ability to return to their stations for recharging when necessary, but generally, its models can last longer out on the floor with a single charge.
Keep in mind that battery life typically won’t be an issue for most users. But if you live in a sprawling house and expect your robot to clean over 2,000 square feet in a single run, then you might want to opt for something with a larger battery.
Winner: Roborock Image used with permission by copyright holder Cleaning power Let’s talk about suction! The more suction a robot vacuum has, the more easily it can tackle larger bits of debris and give carpets a more thorough cleaning. Unfortunately, iRobot doesn’t provide specific suction numbers for its Roomba products. However, most users will find these products to be great at cleaning both hard floors and carpet — especially products with dual roller brushes like the Combo j9+.
Many of Roborock’s models feature a 2,500Pa suction rating. However, Roborock’s latest flagship model, the S8 Pro Ultra , tops out at a staggering 6,000 Pa — which should be more than enough to suck up all the debris hiding in your carpets.
Winner: Roborock Smart features Both vacuum brands have apps that are packed with capabilities and bots that are filled with sensors. Roombas use Imprint Smart Mapping to scan, learn, and label rooms in your home. You can control floor plans and schedule individual room cleanings as you see fit, or order the Roomba to perform a spot cleaning if there’s a specific mess to clean up. You can also set barriers around specific furniture or rugs the Roomba should avoid (Roombas will avoid stairs and other drop points on their own). The more advanced models have dirt detection to tell when a spot is dirtier so the bot can increase cleaning power. The app can even give you suggestions on how and when to clean over time. And with the right base station, Roombas can automatically empty their bins so you don’t have to take out the trash for weeks at a time. And Roombas work with voice assistants like Alexa , Siri, and Google Assistant for audible instructions.
Roborocks are also seriously smart. They use lidar technology to map out rooms and Adaptive Route Algorithms to find the best cleaning paths. You have full control via the app, from setting schedules and adjusting suction power to creating invisible walls so the vacuum will avoid certain areas. Most Roborock models also have the ability to return to their stations and empty their bins, so you don’t have to worry about monitoring them as much. They also work with Alexa and Google Home voice commands.
Truth be told, powerful smart features can be found on both Roomba and Roborock products. Instead of comparing them across the entire brand, you’ll need to narrow down your options and compare specific products.
Winner: Tie iRobot What about mopping capabilities? It took a few years, but both Roborock and Roomba offer devices that can mop and vacuum without any manual input. The Roomba Combo j9+ is a great example of this, as it employs a mophead that can lift to the top of the device when traveling on carpet, ensuring no water drips onto it.
Roborock doesn’t offer a product that’s quite as sophisticated, but the S8 Pro Ultra works in a similar fashion. Instead of a mop that retracts to the top of the vacuum, it simply lifts itself up 5mm when traveling on carpet. That should be fine for most households, but folks with plush carpets might notice the mop skimming along the top of the carpet and getting it a little damp.
However, many Roborock models can now clean and dry their mops at their docking stations. Instead of having to manually clean mops after each cycle, your robot can essentially take care of itself for weeks before needing any assistance.
Actual mopping performance varies by model, but it’s hard to go wrong with a product from either lineup.
Winner: Tie Pricing At the high end, both Roomba and Roborock models tend to cost over $1,000. The Roomba Combo j9+, for example, is $1,400, while the ultra-deluxe Roborock S8 Pro Ultra is $1,600. At the lower end, you can find budget models for around $500. With this much range in choice, there isn’t a lot of difference here as long as you’re willing to compromise to find a price you can live with.
Winner: Tie Conclusion: Which robot vacuum brand is best? Roomba and Roborock are two of the best names in the robot vacuum business. And while Roomba once held the crown, things have evened out as Roborock has launched new products and improved its underlying technology.
At the end of the day, the features inside the vacuum are more important than the logo on the outside. And since Roborock and Roomba now produce robot vacuums with a wide variety of price tags — and almost all of them are built to high standards — we suggest perusing through both catalogs to see which one catches your eye.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Best robot mops of 2023 This Dyson cordless vacuum just had its price slashed for Black Friday Usually $399, this Shark cordless vacuum is on sale for $198 Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell: Which is best? Appliances Robot Vacuums Versus Smart Home If you think you need help in keeping your floors clean, you may want to think about taking advantage of robot vacuum deals. You won't even have to spend much, because there are offers like Walmart's $120 discount for the Shark ION RV754. This brings the robot vacuum's price down to just $129, which is nearly half its original price of $249. We're not sure how much time is remaining on this bargain though, so if you're interested, you should complete the purchase now to be able to pocket the savings.
Why you should buy the Shark ION RV754 robot vacuum The best robot vacuums make cleaning your floors very convenient, and that's something you'll also get from the Shark ION RV754. You'll be able to use either the SharkClean app on your smartphone, or voice commands through smart home devices that are powered by Amazon's Alexa or Google Assistant, to initiate the cleaning process. Once it starts, it can run for up to 120 minutes before it needs to go back to its charging station, and with its onboard sensors -- which are among the features to consider in our guide on how too choose a robot vacuum -- it can avoid falling down stairs and bumping into furniture.
Smart Home Offering impressive video capture, easy installation processes, and an intuitive smartphone app, Arlo stands out as one of the best manufacturers of security cameras. Its catalog has grown a bit larger recently with the launch of its Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen -- but how does this new arrival stack up to the iconic Arlo Pro 4? Here's a look at the Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen and Arlo Pro 4 to help you determine which is best for your security system.
Pricing and monthly fees Smart Home Adding a robot vacuum to your home is a great way to automate your cleaning. These nifty devices will clean your floors with little to no manual input -- freeing up your time for more exciting endeavors. Some are even capable of emptying their own dustbin or pull double duty as a mop. Not all robot vacuums are created equal, however, and finding the best robot vacuums takes a bit of digging.
The first thing you'll need to do when searching for a robot vacuum is set a budget. Robot vacuums run the gamut from a few hundred bucks to well over $1,000. Many of the best robot vacuums cost at least $500, and going any lower could result in poor performance or the need to constantly interact with your device (such as to empty its dustbin, untangle it from furniture, or help it back to its dock).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
