Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Google Home and Google Nest deals: Hub, thermostat, cameras on sale By Andrew Morrisey Close Google’s Home and Nest lineups of products always make for some of the best smart home devices , and include a range of cool tech such as smart speakers and smart thermostats.
 Google Home deals and Google Nest deals are also some of the best smart home deals you can shop, as they’re pretty easy to come by and are often pretty substantial discounts. This is definitely the case right now, as a huge variety of Google Home and Google Nest products are seeing significant price drops. With prices as low as $60 and savings as high as $160, these are the best Google Home and Google Nest deals you’ll find right now.
Google Home — $60, was $130 Google Nest Audio — $79, was $99 Google Nest Hub (2nd Gen) — $83, was $100 Google Nest Thermostat — $95, was $130 Google Nest WiFi 2-pack — $106, was $269 Google Nest Cam (Battery) — $152, was $180 Google Nest Doorbell (Battery) — $153, was $180 Google Nest Hub Max — $175, was $229 Google Nest Learning Thermostat — $218, was $249 Google Home — $60, was $130 Google Google Home is a smart speaker and smart assistant that should catch the eye of anyone on the lookout for a smart device. It can control features and devices throughout your smart home setup, and allows you to easily have questions answered, have music played, have your calendar arranged, and have entertainment played. It has Chromecast built in, which allows you to play music and other media from compatible devices. Google Home can even sync music across speakers throughout your home.
Google Nest Audio — $79, was $99 Google Google Nest Audio is another smart speaker option. It has virtual assistant capabilities with Google Assistant, and recognizes voice commands for playing music. You can also easily make calls, check the weather, and find out what you’ve got scheduled for the day. It has privacy features built right in, allowing you to delete your history with a voice command. It also has a microphone switch on the back that allows you to switch of voice command functionality. Its design is minimal and unobtrusive, as the Google Nest Audio is meant to fit into any home and design style.
Google Nest Hub (2nd Gen) — $83, was $100 Google The Google Nest Hub Smart Display is a great piece of tech to put at the center of your smart home setup. It shows all of your connected devices in one place, and you can control them from the Nest Hub with just a tap. It even has voice integration, allowing you to control your devices with a voice command. The Nest Hub Smart Display also has a new microphone, making it capable of hearing you better than previous models. You can also ask Google about the weather, news, sports, or almost anything, and get quick answers.
Google Nest Thermostat — $95, was $130 Google With the Google Nest Thermostat you’re getting the perfect Nest Thermostat model if what you want is a nice balance of simplicity and capability. It’s incredibly easy to install, as installation typically takes less than 30 minutes. It’s just as easy to use, and you can even control it from the Google Home app. With this combination you can easily adjust temperature and comfort settings from anywhere. You can also create and adjust heating and cooling schedules straight from the app. Voice commands are also in play with the Nest Thermostat, making things like changing the temperature as simple as saying so.
Google Nest WiFi 2-pack — $106, was $269 Google If you’re looking to setup, extend, or upgrade your home’s wifi network, this Google Nest WiFi 2-pack is the Google Nest deal for you. The Nest WiFi creates reliable coverage throughout your home, and having a second Nest WiFi will help you increase your networks range. This is a good idea if you have a larger home or office, or with a lot of people accessing the network regularly. The Google Nest WiFI features two wireless bands of faster wireless performance, and allows for speeds up to 2.2 Gbps. You can also easily control other devices connected to your smart home, allowing you to play music and issue voice commands across your home wifi network.
Google Nest Cam (Battery) — $152, was $180 Google The battery-powered version of the Google Nest Cam is the perfect camera if you’re looking to upgrade security around your house. It’s wire-free and sets up easily indoors or outdoors. It sets up easily and is controllable through the Google Home app, which allows you to see live HD video, replay video recordings, talk to visitors, and more. The Nest Cam will show you what’s happening at home if you’re away, and will alert you when it spots a person, animal, or vehicle in range. It’s even capable of recognizing familiar faces and telling you who’s coming and going.
Google Nest Doorbell (Battery) — $153, was $180 Google The Google Nest Doorbell is a great addition to any smart home setup. It has built-in intelligence and can tell the difference between a person, package, animal, and vehicles, and can send you an alert in the Google Home app. It allows you to easily check in from anywhere throughout the day or night with live HD video. Video capabilities also include HDR and night vision. The Nest Doorbell is easy to install, and its built-in battery means it works with any door, and that installation won’t require any sort of wiring or electrical complications. With the Nest Doorbell you can talk and listen to visitors at your door, even if you’re away, making it the perfect doorbell for anybody looking to add a little security to their smart home.
Google Nest Hub Max — $175, was $229 John Velasco/Digital Trends The Google Nest Hub Max makes a great smart home centerpiece. With it you can leave video messages for family and make video calls. It will allow you to check in on your home while you’re away, and offers a range of virtual assistant features through Google Assistant. It has a built-in Nest Cam that will alert you if motion is detected while you’re away. It works with thousands of smart home devices such as TVs, lights, locks, and cameras. And it gives you quick and easy access to entertainment, including YouTube, news, live sports, movies, and TV shows.
Google Nest Learning Thermostat — $218, was $249 Google The Google Nest Learning Thermostat is the flagship device in Google’s Nest Thermostat line. The Google Nest Learning Thermostat and Google Nest Thermostat are comparable, though this comes in as Nest’s premium model. It includes a metal housing, the ability to learn your family’s temperature preferences, and better temperature regulation by pairing with additional Nest Temperature Sensors. The Geek Squad Certified Refurbished version of the Google Nest Learning Thermostat comes with a 90-day warranty — while it will be tested to make sure that it works properly, you can make a purchase knowing if anything does go wrong you can have it replaced.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Deals Cheapest Prices Google Google Nest Smart Home It may seem early, but the best Black Friday deals are starting to trickle out ahead of the major holiday shopping event. It doesn't really matter what you're looking for, specifically, there are so many deals and discounts that now's probably the best time to shop. There's almost no sense in waiting until the official Black Friday or Cyber Week, unless you've seen a deal you know you want. Retailers actually raise prices many times before these big sales so the discounts aren't as good as you think they are. Speaking of deals, name brand goods are on sale at incredible prices right now, like KitchenAid stand mixers. They can take your food prep and ingredient mixing to new heights. We've scoured the various retailer sites to find the best of the best KitchenAid stand mixer Black Friday deals, and they're all here in one place. Why not take a look? Best KitchenAid stand mixer Black Friday deals Stand mixers are versatile tools that you can use to mix, blend, and concoct various ingredients for meals and food prep. KitchenAid, obviously, is a well known brand in the kitchen and cooking world and its stand mixers are known for quality and reliability.
Smart Home Vitamix makes some of the best blenders around, and they're a great investment if you plan on putting them to work every day. With Black Friday deals going on right now, this is your chance to upgrade to a great blender for a similarly excellent price. We've picked out the very best Vitamix blender deal below along with some other options you might want to consider buying.
Best Vitamix blender Black Friday deal Vitamix Explorian E310 blender -- $290, was $350 The Vitamix Explorian E310 blender is perfect for making a variety of different textures and liquids. It has 10 variable speeds plus a pulse setting so you can easily use it to prepare soup, make fresh salsa, or even knead dough. It has a powerful 2 HP motor for handling even the toughest of ingredients while its 48 ounce container is perfect for formulating medium-size batches of whatever you're cooking. It's easily cleaned in the dishwasher or you can add soap and warm water and the machine can clean itself in just 30 to 60 seconds.
Deals Vacuums are expensive. Feature-rich vacuums, especially wet-dry vacuums that can handle all spills, are even pricier. Recognizing that there’s a gap in the market for more affordable options, Eureka has delivered one for under $200. Get excited. They're perfect for cleaning sticky messes, whether you made them, your kids, or your pets. But the most important distinction is that wet and dry vacuums can vacuum and mop all in one go, and you don't have to swap out devices, attachments, or anything else. At least, that's the case with Eureka's excellent NEW400 wet and dry all-in-one vacuum. It's even self-propelled to make it easier on you -- and it takes less effort to glide around your floors.
Here's the best part of all, though. For Black Friday, running from November 17 to November 27, you can save big on the Eureka NEW400, which is discounted to $140 instead of its normal $200 price. That's a total savings of $60, but really, even more, considering you're not having to buy a separate vacuum and mop. You can grab that deal below right now or keep reading to learn a little more about what the NEW400 has to offer.
Buy Now Why you should buy the Eureka NEW400 wet and dry vacuum during Black Friday Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
