Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sleeker than a Ring doorbell: Google’s Nest Doorbell is $60 off By Aaron Mamiit Close John Velasco / Digital Trends / Digital Trends If you thought about buying a Ring Video Doorbell from Amazon’s October Prime Day deals but you decided against it because you don’t like their blocky designs, then you may want to check out Best Buy’s offer for the sleeker Google Nest Doorbell. From $180, it’s down to a more affordable $120 following a $60 discount. We’re not sure if it will stay this cheap for long, so if you want to enjoy savings when buying this security device, you should proceed with the purchase as soon as you can.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Doorbell The battery-powered Google Nest Doorbell is featured in our list of the best video doorbells as the best battery video doorbell for several reasons, including a modern design that’s easy on the eyes. The matte plastic chassis will blend in with most front door setups, and because it’s a wireless device, there’s no need to deal with unsightly cables upon installation — all you need is the Google Home app and a Google account.
Through the Google Home app, you’ll be able to view live video from the Google Nest Doorbell’s HD camera, and you’ll also be able to talk to whoever’s outside your front door using its built-in microphone and speaker. The video doorbell offers free event video history for up to three hours, and if there’s a power outage, it will automatically record events for up to one hours on its local storage. The Google Nest Doorbell also comes with night vision so you can clearly see when it’s dark, and it protects your privacy with encrypted video and two-step verification.
You can’t put a price on your peace of mind, but you can enjoy savings when purchasing the Google Nest Doorbell from Best Buy. The smart home device is currently on sale with a $60 discount that pulls its price down to just $120 from $180 originally. It may return to its regular price much sooner than you expect, so you shouldn’t waste time thinking about it. Go ahead and proceed with the transaction for the Google Nest Doorbell so you can make sure that you get it for cheaper than usual.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more Deals Amazon Google Nest Video Doorbells Smart Home Black Friday is a great time to save on tech as the holidays approach. Early Black Friday deals have already started to commence at several retailers, with all sorts of smart home devices seeing discounts. Blood pressure monitors are among them, and several make great competition for the best blood pressure monitors. Having a blood pressure monitor around the house can be beneficial, and right now it can help you land some savings. In fact, these early Black Friday deals are offering some of the best blood pressure monitor deals of the year, and we’ve tracked them all down.
Best blood pressure monitor Black Friday deal Omron 5 Series upper arm blood pressure monitor — $55, was $78 While the best fitness trackers can go a long way in helping you track your stats, they can only go so far. Maintaining good health includes maintaining the right blood pressure. Omron makes highly-rated blood pressure monitors to help you do so, with several different models available at several different price points. The Omron 5 Series offers some good middle ground value. It has advanced accuracy technology, and it can connect to the Omron Connect app on either Android or iOS devices. It’s capable of indicating hypertension, monitoring pulse, monitoring heartbeat, and keeping track of changes in your blood pressure. The Omron 5 Series blood pressure monitor measures five times more data points for consistent, precise blood pressure readings, making it a great option to keep around the house.
Smart Home Using an air fryer is popular today, largely because the machines let us get the great taste and texture of fried foods without suffering through all of the healthy-ruining oils that come with them. As we've explored the best air fryers, however, we've come to the conclusion that not all air fryers are created equal. And we're not alone in this assessment, as customers consistently appreciate using some over others as well. One such customer-loved air fryer is the Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer. The best part about it? An early Black Friday deal at Best Buy sends this beloved air fryer down to $50 from $130, saving you $80. Tap the button below to check it out yourself or keep reading for more info.
Why you should buy the Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer The Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer cooks up to 6.5 pounds of food at a time over 1700W of power. There are nine preset options for popular foods like shrimp or fish, but the whole device is easily controlled by an intuitive touch panel. It's easy to clean your fingerprints off it, too, due to its stainless steel exterior and smooth-surfaced touch panel. Similarly, the interior basket and crisping tray are both dishwasher safe.
Smart Home Air purifiers can help you refresh the air quality in your home by effectively cleaning it and reintroducing it. That's important because indoor air quality tends to degrade over time, even inside really clean homes and properties. The more people and pets you cram into a space, the dirtier it's going to be. That goes for air quality, too, especially if you have allergies. But by taking advantage of one of the best air purifier deals, you can reverse that problem. Take the Dyson HP07 Hot+Cool smart air purifier, which is currently on sale at Best Buy for $200 off. Normally $750, you can get it today for $550, an incredible price. It's an air purifier, fan, and heater all rolled into one, with HEPA filtration and coverage for 1,000 to over 2,000 square feet.
Why you should buy the Dyson HP07 Hot+Cool smart air purifier The main question on your mind is, likely, do air purifiers work? The answer is yes and in many ways. For example, they can help remove strange or old odors in a home or apartment.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
