Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to save a video to Google Home By Jon Bitner Close Google Home can be used to monitor and control a variety of smart home devices, including several types of cameras and video doorbells.
 Better yet, the smartphone app gives you an easy way to save videos recorded on these gadgets. There are a few restrictions, but here’s a look at how to save a video to Google Home.
How to save a video to Google Home What’s the difference between the Nest app and Google Home? Difficulty Duration What You Need Google Home app Supported Nest product Google How to save a video to Google Home If you own a Nest product with a camera (such as a video doorbell), you can download clips using the Google Home app. Keep in mind that you can only download video clips that were registered to your video history, and the maximum clip length setting for your device will determine how long the video clip can be. Also, time-lapse videos cannot currently be created using the Google Home app – for that functionality, you’ll need to visit the Nest website.
With that out of the way, here’s how to save a video to Google Home on your smartphone.
Step 1: Open the Google Home app.
Step 2: Select your camera from the Favorites or Devices tab.
The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more Step 3: Find the event you want to save. This can be done by scrolling through its video history or selecting the Event History tab.
Step 4: Select the video event you want to save, then select Controls.
Step 5: Select Save Clip.
 This will download the file to your smartphone.
Google What’s the difference between the Nest app and Google Home? Google Home is a great way to control your Nest products, but it’s not your only option. The Nest app is another popular way to check in on video feeds and event history – and it offers many of the same features as Google Home.
Both Google Home and the Nest app can download video clips. However, note that the Nest app only supports videos up to two minutes and 30 seconds. The length of video clips in Google Home , meanwhile, is determined by the settings of your camera or video doorbell. Also, note that the Nest app can only be used to download videos that were created in the Nest app, and you can’t download clips that were created on a computer.
If you’re looking to piece together a time-lapse, the Nest website is your only option, as (much like Google Home) the Nest app doesn’t yet support this feature.
Editors' Recommendations Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Best robot vacuum Black Friday deals: Save on Roomba, Shark, more How to add Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit NordicTrack Black Friday deals: Save on treadmills, exercise bikes Google Google Nest How-To Guides Video Doorbells Smart Home Black Friday is right around the corner, but we’re already starting to see some impressive Black Friday deals hitting the internet. Retailers like Best Buy, Amazon, and Walmart are all discounting a range of tech right now, and that includes some tech for the fitness enthusiasts out there. Peloton and NordicTrack are two of the most popular brands when it comes to fitness equipment (there are NordicTrack Black Friday deals too), with many people leaning toward Peloton as their favorite. Peloton particularly stands out when it comes to exercise bikes, offering a range of bikes with integrated smart features to help with a great workout. You’ll find some Peloton products among the current Black Friday deals, and we’ve tracked down the best Peloton Black Friday deals you can currently shop.
Best Peloton Black Friday deals If you’re looking to add an exercise bike to your home gym or daily fitness routine, you can do so with some savings this Black Friday shopping season. Peloton has a couple of exercise bikes seeing a Black Friday discount. A lot of other Peloton fitness equipment is currently discounted as well, including things like dumbbells, and cycling shoes made to strap into a Peloton bike. If you’re looking to improve your fitness routine with some Peloton equipment, now’s the time to save along the way.
Smart Home While many devices use built-in or sealed batteries, there are still plenty of devices like TV remotes and children's toys that require you to add your own AA or AAA batteries. Thankfully, Black Friday deals also include these with plenty of excellent deals around on the best rechargeable batteries as well as conventional AA and AAA batteries. If you're looking to stock up, check out all the deals we've found below to help you save big.
Best AA battery Black Friday deals AA batteries are used for many different purposes. For instance, they can be used for a flashlight, a calculator, a digital thermometer, along with smoke detectors or a traditional wall clock. They can also be used for remotes along with toys, so they're a very versatile type of battery. Old school gamers will likely fondly remember them as 'Gameboy' batteries referring to swapping out batteries for the Nintendo Gameboy. While many devices may use batteries that can be charged via a USB cable or similar, there are still enough using AA batteries that it's handy to have some spare at home.
Powermax 24-Count AA Batteries -- Smart Home With hundreds of incredible products available, it can be intimidating to piece together a smart home. From smart displays and thermostats to smart light bulbs and video doorbells, not only are there tons of categories to browse, but each category is filled with highly reviewed products that can be difficult to distinguish from one another. If you’re in the market for a new smart home gadget or are just starting your smart home journey, there are tons of factors to consider.
If you need help navigating all the products, here’s a look at the best smart home devices of 2023 across a wide variety of categories. It’s hard to go wrong with products from big names like Ring, Arlo, Amazon, and Google, but if you need a bit more guidance, here are some of our top picks.
Voice assistant Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
