Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best October Prime Day Ring Video Doorbell deals live now By Aaron Mamiit Close Amazon is bringing back its Prime Day deals in October through Prime Big Deal Days 2023, and other retailers like Best Buy are trying to take advantage of the online shopping activity with discounts of its own. If you’ve always wanted to equip your home with a video doorbell, you should check out the Ring doorbell deals that Best Buy has rolled out alongside Amazon’s event. However, you’ll have to hurry in deciding which one to buy because we’re not sure how much time you’ve got left before stocks of these smart home devices run out.
Ring Video Doorbell (Wired) — $35, was $65 Ring Video Doorbell (Wireless) — $55, was $100 Ring Video Doorbell Pro — $100, was $170 Ring Battery Doorbell Plus — $130, was $180 Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 — $150, was $250 Ring Video Doorbell (Wired) — $35, was $65 Ring The Ring Video Doorbell Wired may be cheap, but if you want a no-frills video doorbell that will keep your family safe, it’s going to get the job done. With 1080p HD video and two-way talk, you can see and communicate with whoever’s outside your front door through the Ring app on your smartphone or a smart device powered by Amazon’s Alexa.
 The Ring Video Doorbell Wired can use your existing doorbell wiring, but if you don’t have that yet, you may need an expert to help set it up.
Ring Video Doorbell (Wireless) — $55, was $100 Ring The second-generation Ring Video Doorbell offers 1080p HD video and two-way talk, so you can see and talk to whoever’s outside your door through your smartphone of Alexa-enabled device. It runs on a rechargeable battery so there’s no need to deal with wires. You can set it up to receive notifications on your smartphone or get alerted by Alexa whenever someone presses the video doorbell’s button.
Ring Video Doorbell Pro — $100, was $170 Rich Shibley/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Ring Video Doorbell Pro already has a successor, but it’s still a fairly capable video doorbell with its 1080p HD camera that’s capable of color night vision. The video doorbell is also compatible with Amazon’s Alexa , and it will send live feeds and alerts to your Ring app. The Ring Video Doorbell Pro also offers advanced motion detection that you can customize to focus on specific zones outside your house, with the feature sending motion-activated alerts to your phone whenever someone or something triggers it.
Ring Battery Doorbell Plus — $130, was $180 Ring Just released earlier this year, there’s already a discount available for the Ring Battery Doorbell Plus.
 True to its name, this battery-powered video doorbell offers battery life that’s three times better than the original, so you won’t have to recharge it as often as before. The video doorbell is very easy to install as it won’t require wiring, and you’ll be getting 1536p HD+ video with two-way talk functionality once it’s up and running. The Ring Battery Doorbell Plus also offers night vision, improved motion detection, and compatibility with Amazon’s Alexa.
Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 — $150, was $250 Ring For complete protection of your front door, go for the Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2.
 In addition to the usual features that you’d expect from Ring’s video doorbells, including live 1080p HD video, two-way talk, and advanced motion settings through the Ring app, it also offers 3D motion detection that will tell you when and where someone entered your property, and Bird’s Eye View that will give you an aerial look at where people moved in your front yard.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Waterpik Black Friday deals on water flossers and toothbrushes Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now The best KitchenAid mixer Black Friday deals (and accessories from $17) Deals Amazon Video Doorbells Smart Home Vitamix makes some of the best blenders around, and they're a great investment if you plan on putting them to work every day. With Black Friday deals going on right now, this is your chance to upgrade to a great blender for a similarly excellent price. We've picked out the very best Vitamix blender deal below along with some other options you might want to consider buying.
Best Vitamix blender Black Friday deal Vitamix Explorian E310 blender -- $290, was $350 The Vitamix Explorian E310 blender is perfect for making a variety of different textures and liquids. It has 10 variable speeds plus a pulse setting so you can easily use it to prepare soup, make fresh salsa, or even knead dough. It has a powerful 2 HP motor for handling even the toughest of ingredients while its 48 ounce container is perfect for formulating medium-size batches of whatever you're cooking. It's easily cleaned in the dishwasher or you can add soap and warm water and the machine can clean itself in just 30 to 60 seconds.
Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home If you want to bring your thermostat into the age of smart tech, it's highly recommended that you check out the Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals that are available for Black Friday. The discounts on the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat aren't expected to last long though, as stocks are already probably running low. If you need help looking for Black Friday deals involving either smart home device, and if you're having trouble deciding which one to go for, you'll get your answers below. To complete your smart home, check out Nest Black Friday deals and Ring Black Friday deals too.
Best Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals Different retailers have slashed the prices of the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat, so there's no shortage of options on where you want to purchase these smart home devices. However, so you can secure your Nest Thermostat quickly, we've rounded up our favorite picks below -- you'll still have to act fast though, as the offers may end at any moment.
Google Nest Thermostat -- Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
