Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Ring doorbell, security camera, and alarm kit prices cut for Prime Day By Aaron Mamiit Close Maybe it’s a surprise, maybe it’s not, but Amazon is back with its Prime Day Big Deal Days sale in October. It’s happening much closer to the holiday shopping season and offers an excellent opportunity to stock up on last-minute discounts. When it comes to your home security, Amazon’s Ring has it all — video doorbells, security cameras, and alarm kits. They’re available with huge discounts in this year’s Prime Day deals , too, so if you’ve been thinking about adding extra layers of protection for your family, you’re going to want to take advantage of these offers. Be warned that you’re probably not the only one thinking about beefing up your home’s security for Prime Day, so it’s highly recommended that you order as soon as possible because stocks for Ring products may already be selling out.
What to buy in Amazon’s Prime Day Big Deal Days Ring sale The cheapest Ring security devices that you can buy from Amazon’s Prime Day Big Deal Days sale include the second-generation Ring Indoor Cam , which is from $60 after a $30 discount, and the Ring Video Doorbell Wired , which is available for instead of $65 for $30 in savings. Both devices will let you look through their 1080p HD cameras through the Ring app, and they can send you alerts when they detect motion, but they will be placed at different spots in your home — the Ring Indoor Cam will look at what’s happening inside, the while Ring Video Doorbell will show you who’s at your door, and also talk to them with its two-way audio feature.
For stronger surveillance outside your home, you can go for the Ring Spotlight Cam Pro.
 Originally priced at $230, it’s on sale for after a $50 discount on its original price of $230. With 1080p HDR video, a 140-degree field of view, and color night vision, you’ll always get a clear picture of what’s happening outdoors. It also features an adjustable light to keep dark corners well-lit. Meanwhile, for a complete home security system, check out the Ring Alarm , with its 14-piece kit going for for savings of $132 on its sticker price of $330. The bundle includes a base station that keeps the whole system online, two keypads for in-home control, a range extender to boost the signals of the devices, two motion detectors to monitor for movement, and contact sensors that will make sure that doors and windows remain closed.
Whether one of these offers catches your attention, or you want to see what else is available in Amazon’s Prime Day Ring deals, one thing’s for certain — you should act fast because stocks for some of these security devices will be gone sooner than you think. If you want to introduce a video doorbell, security camera, alarm kit, or any combination of these Ring products to your home for much cheaper than usual during Prime Day Big Deal Days in October, it’s not enough to add them to your cart — you should check out as soon as you can.
Editors' Recommendations Best Blink Black Friday deals: Get a security camera for $20 Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 This popular Ninja air fryer just had its price slashed from $170 to $100 Arlo Essential Video Doorbell just had its price slashed from $150 to $100 Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Video Doorbells Smart Home With porch pirates always on the prowl to steal your packages, one of the best ways to protect your family from them is to invest in security camera deals. The Google Nest Cam with Floodlight is an excellent choice for this purpose, especially since it's currently on sale from Best Buy for a more affordable $190 following a $90 discount on its sticker price of $280. This is one of the retailer's early Black Friday deals, but since there's no assurance that it will remain available until the shopping holiday, it's highly recommended that you proceed with purchasing it right now.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight Once you've installed the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight and connected it to your home's Wi-Fi network, you'll never have to worry about your packages getting stolen again. The security camera's built-in intelligence is capable of telling the difference between a person, vehicle, and animal, and once it detects motion, it will send an alert through the Google Home app on your smartphone. You can then look through the device's 1080p HD camera to see what happened, and if the activity happens at night, you can set the floodlight to illuminate the area for a better view and to deter the potential thief.
Smart Home Best Buy has one of the best security camera deals at the moment as part of its early Black Friday deals. You can currently buy the Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera Security Bundle for $280 saving you a huge $320 off the regular price of $600. A fantastic deal for anyone keen to secure their home better, the whole kit is simple to install. Here's what you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera Security Bundle The Arlo Pro 4 tops our look at the best home security cameras so you're onto a good thing here. By buying this bundle, you don't just get one Arlo Pro 4. Instead, you get three of the cameras along with four rechargeable batteries, a dual battery charging station, and three anti-theft mounts.
Smart Home We've been looking through all of our favorite vacuum cleaners, collecting yet another list of the best vacuum deals. It's all part of our efforts to document the rise of early Black Friday deals that you'll see on the site throughout this month. In doing so, we came across a vacuum that made the "Dyson" neurons in our brain flicker, but it turned out to be a false alarm. We're excited to bring you the deal anyhow, as this vacuum is a well-rated, highly affordable BLACK+DECKER that presents itself in the same style as a Dyson, combining high functionality with a pared-down design. Plus, it's on sale right now. The BLACK+DECKER POWERSERIES+ is usually $100, but you can get it for $89 now. That's a savings of $11, all yours if you just tap the button below. If you want more details, please be sure to read our analysis below.
Why you should buy the BLACK+DECKER POWERSERIES+ In today's world, vacuums are surprisingly expensive. Instead of making the machines, a long ubiquitous house tool, less expensive with more technology, manufacturers seem to have stuffed every bit of advanced tech into them and jacked up the prices. You can find vacuums with bags, in 2023, clearing the $200 mark. The BLACK+DECKER POWERSERIES+, however, takes the high road and is less than $100. This makes it one of the cheapest, customer-approved vacuum cleaners that you can buy today.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
