Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Hurry — Ring Video Doorbell price just crashed from $100 to $55 By Aaron Mamiit Close Ring For an affordable but dependable way of improving your home’s security, you can’t go wrong with the second-generation Ring Video Doorbell. It’s currently even cheaper at just $55 from the Ring doorbell deals of Best Buy, following a $45 discount on its original price of $100, so now’s a great time to buy the smart home device. You’ll have to act fast if you’re interested though, as we’re not sure how much time is remaining on this bargain. Proceed with the purchase immediately if you don’t want to miss out, as tomorrow may be too late.
Why you should buy the Ring Video Doorbell Even with the release of the fourth-generation Ring Video Doorbell , the second-generation Ring Video Doorbell remains on our list of the best video doorbells as the top entry-level option because it offers most of the features that you’ll need at a very low price. Installation is easy, whether you want to go wireless using its built-in battery, or wired if you’ve already got the necessary connection in place. Once it’s up and running, you’ll be able to use the Ring app to receive real-time notifications when someone is outside your door, look through the 1080p HD camera to see who’s there, and use the Two-Way Talk function to communicate with them.
You have the option of customizing the second-generation Ring Video Doorbell’s motion zone settings so that it will focus on monitoring specific areas outside your front door, and it works with devices that are powered by Amazon’s Alexa for audio announcements when somebody presses the doorbell or something triggers the motion sensors. You can check out our tips and tricks for the Ring Video Doorbell to make the most out of the smart home device.
The second-generation Ring Video Doorbell will give you peace of mind for only $55, as it’s on sale from Best Buy with a $45 discount on its sticker price of $100. You’ll need to process the transaction as soon as possible though, because there’s a chance that time is already running out on this affordable offer. Once you’ve purchased your own second-generation Ring Video Doorbell, you should also think about equipping your home with more eyes by taking advantage of security camera deals.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles This Shark robot vacuum just had its price slashed from $249 to $129 Arlo Essential Video Doorbell just had its price slashed from $150 to $100 Arlo, Blink, Ring & more: Security camera systems are on sale today Deals Video Doorbells Smart Home After a long, tough day, what's better than some rest and relaxation in the comfort of your home? A full body massage, that's what. But how do you get one without convincing your partner to do all the work? The answer is a full body massage chair just like the one that Best Buy is offering for an incredible discount today. That's right, normally $2,500, you can get the Insignia 2D Zero Gravity for $1,000, which is a total savings of $1,500. That's a huge discount, a fantastic price, and frankly, this massage chair will make any day better. And hey, it may not have AI technology built in, but that's a bit excessive for a chair, wouldn't you agree? Let's take a closer look at what it does have.
Why you should buy the Insignia 2D Zero Gravity full body massage chair Aches, pains, we all get them, and the older you get, the worse those issues are. But you can soothe your body by climbing into this Insignia 2D Zero Gravity massage chair. It offers fully customizable massage modes, allowing you to target different areas of your body, so you can focus on what needs the most care. There are also multiple massage styles to choose from, including kneading, tapping, knocking, shiatsu, and combo modes. It's no $8,000 massage chair, but that's okay. Who wants to spend that much on a massage chair, anyway? Smart Home Best Buy just launched early Black Friday deals for various smart home devices by Google Nest, including security cameras, video doorbells, and smart thermostats. There are 20 offers in total so it shouldn't take you too much time to go through them, but you should be hurrying because these bargains may disappear at any moment. With Google Nest among the most trusted brands for smart home setups, stocks for some of these products may be gone sooner than you expect, so if you see something you like, push through with the purchase as soon as you can.
What to buy in Best Buy's Google Nest sale If you're looking for security camera deals, the Google Nest Cam is highly recommended in our roundup of the best home security cameras for its Google Assistant integration. It's currently available for Smart Home Save on gym membership fees with one of the cheapest fitness deals around at Best Buy. Today, you can buy the ProFrom Smart Power 10 exercise bike for just $400 saving $600 off the regular price of $1,000. A clearance deal, this won't stick around for long but it's great way to get your cardio done indoors as well as enjoy some weight training lessons if you choose. Intrigued? Here's what you need to know.
Why you should buy the ProForm Smart Power 10 exercise bike One of the best exercise bikes for those that want more than just pedal power, the ProForm Smart Power 10 exercise bike is pretty versatile. It offers 22 resistance levels with an inertia-enhanced flywheel so you can enjoy a smooth and steady pedal strike. An ergonomic padded seat keeps you comfy with plenty of adjustable components. An upright frame makes your feel like you're using a traditional road bike.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
