Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How to remove a language on Duolingo By Bryan M. Wolfe Close If you want to learn a new language, Duolingo can be the perfect platform for you. It is a free service that offers courses in over 30 languages. You can access it online or through iPhone and Android apps. Duolingo uses games to make language learning a fun and engaging experience. However, if you decide to switch to another language, you can remove the previous language course from your account.
How to remove a language from the Duolingo iPhone app How to remove a language from the Duolingo Android app Difficulty Duration What You Need An iPhone or Android device Removing a language from your Duolingo account is a relatively pain-free process, although it differs slightly for iPhone and Android users. There are several reasons why you may want to remove a language from your account. Either you no longer want to learn the language or have completed the course, or you want to start at the beginning. The only way to start anew is to remove the language, then add it again.
Digital Trends How to remove a language from the Duolingo iPhone app Removing a language from your Duolingo account takes just a few steps via the Duolingo app for iPhone.
Step 1: To get started, open the Duolingo app on your iPhone and make sure you're logged into your account.
Step 2: Next, select the face icon at the bottom of the app. From there, select the Settings icon at the top right of the app.
Digital Trends Step 3: Select Courses , then select the language you wish to remove.
Step 4: Select Remove to confirm your decision to delete the language from your account.
Digital Trends How to remove a language from the Duolingo Android app You can remove a language from the Duolingo app on Android using slightly different steps than the ones mentioned above.
Step 1: First, open the Duolingo app on your supported Android device and be sure you're logged into your account.
Step 2: Next, select the face icon at the bottom of the app. From there, select the Settings icon at the top right of the app.
Digital Trends Step 3: Scroll down, and choose Manage Courses.
Step 4: Select Remove next to the language you wish to remove from your account.
Step 5: Select Remove to confirm.
Digital Trends As you can see, removing a language from your Duolingo account is possible. Once you remove a language from your account, you can add it again anytime. When you do, you’ll have to start your lessons for that language at the beginning again.
Editors' Recommendations iOS 17: How to delete a wallpaper on your iPhone How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to use photo cutout to cut and paste images iOS 17: How to change the clock font on your iPhone iOS 17: How to add a different home screen wallpaper on your iPhone Android Apple Apps Google How-To Guides Mobile It’s that time of the year again. On Sunday, November 5, at 2:00 a.m., the majority of people in the U.S. will revert to standard time by setting their clocks behind by an hour. This also means that you get an extra hour of sleep. However, it raises an important question: will your phone automatically change to standard time, or do you need to do it manually? It's a question that applies regardless of which phone you have. Whether you're rocking an iPhone 15 Pro, a Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, or any other smartphone, it's important to know whether or not you need to change it for the new time.
Mobile It seems like new apps don't create much excitement nowadays, but one app has caught people's attention recently. It's called Lapse, and it's a photo-sharing app that is currently only available through invitation.
The app was created to allow you to share photos with friends, not with followers, in fun new ways. Friends versus followers might seem a bit confusing, but it becomes clearer once you understand how the app operates.
Mobile Behind the scenes: An Apple Event shot on iPhone Apple surprised many folks when it revealed that Monday's Scary Fast event was shot entirely on an iPhone -- the iPhone 15 Pro Max, to be precise.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
