Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides These are the 6 biggest Google Pixel 8 problems (and how to fix them) By Mark Jansen Close The Google Pixel range is generally Android at its very best, and it's the device you pick up if you want a pure Android experience, along with an incredible camera and some of the best toys Google can muster. But even a phone crafted by the makers of Android isn't immune to bugs and problems, and the Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro , while still new devices, already have their fair share of bugs and issues.
The Google Pixel 8's battery life is bad Poor cell reception/calling connectivity A slow or unresponsive touchscreen The Google Pixel 8 is overheating 'Bumps' behind the screen The camera app isn't working Difficulty Duration What You Need Google Pixel 8 or 8 Pro While sometimes it's simply a case that your particular unit is faulty and needs returning, sometimes there are problems that can be fixed by you fairly easily. Or on the other end of the scale, you'll just have to wait for Google to send out a fix via a software update. No matter the problem, and no matter the solution, we've compiled a list of the biggest current bugs (and fixes, where available) affecting the Google Pixel 8 and Google Pixel 8 Pro.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Google Pixel 8's battery life is bad A number of users have noticed the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro aren't lasting as long as their previous Pixel phones. These issues range from the phone having slightly worse battery life than the Pixel 7 Pro to some particularly worrying cases where the phone runs out of battery partway through the day, and seems to be restarting throughout the day too.
There's a big difference between a phone having a disappointingly low battery, and one which is clearly defective, so there are a number of soft "fixes" and solutions for this issue.
Solutions: Turn down your brightness. The Pixel 8 and 8 Pro both get very bright, so if your phone's brightness is constantly high, it's going to impact your battery's longevity. Turn it down if it doesn't need to be so high.
Enable power-saving mode. This will throttle the performance and limit brightness, but if your phone isn't making it through the day, this is a great option.
Lower the resolution. Higher resolutions use more pixels, and more pixels need more power. Turn down the resolution and it should help your battery power.
Limit the number of games you play, if you play games.
Send it back to Google or whomever you bought it from. This should only really be done in the worst circumstances, e.g. if the battery is completely discharging in a matter of hours despite not doing anything demanding. That could be a faulty battery, and it needs to be repaired or replaced.
Google Pixel 8 Google Poor cell reception/calling connectivity It doesn't matter how good the "smart" part of a " smartphone " is if the "phone" part is rubbish, and a lot of people are complaining that cell connectivity on the Pixel 8 and 8 Pro is spotty, or just flat-out bad.
 The culprit here may likely be the modem Google is using in its Tensor G3 processor , but it's also possible carrier signal may be weak in your area. Of course, it's also probable it's a combination of the two, especially if you've been using the same carrier on previous phones, and haven't encountered these issues before.
One Reddit user noticed their cell network connection shut down when their phone connected to Wi-Fi. If that's the case for you, you may have to wait for a fix from Google.
Solutions: Change carriers. It could be that a different carrier has better reception in your area, and changing to a new one may fix your problems. This may not be possible for those on a contract, though.
Change to an eSIM.
One Pixel 8 owner noticed that changing from a physical SIM card to an eSIM improved their connectivity.
Wait for bug fixes from Google. If some element of software is to blame, and you don't mind waiting (and your issues aren't too bad), then holding out for bug fixes from Google may be your best option.
If the problem is really bad, returning the device to the seller may be your best option.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends A slow or unresponsive touchscreen There seem to be a few gremlins gumming up the works in the Pixel 8 Pro, as a few people have noticed their phone's touchscreens can be slow to respond or even completely unresponsive.
 We're long past the heyday of having additional navigation buttons on our smartphones, so not being able to control your phone is effectively a death knell if it continues. This issue has only really been reported in the Pixel 8 Pro so far, so it could be because of the new OLED panel Google is using in that phone. One person even noticed the problem only hit them while wirelessly charging their phone , which is oddly specific, but has been confirmed by other users as a problem.
Solutions: If your touchscreen is completely unresponsive and you can't use your phone, you'll need to send it back to the seller for repair or replacement. You may need to borrow someone else's phone to make the call.
If it's a sporadic issue and one you're willing to wait out, then waiting for a patch from Google is a decent idea. It may be software-based, and would therefore be a big target for Google to hit.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Google Pixel 8 is overheating By most accounts , this is a problem that's not as bad as it had been on phones like the Pixel 6 and Pixel 7 , but some Pixel 8 units are reaching uncomfortable temperatures during use.
 This is a particularly nasty issue to experience , as it not only stops you from using your phone, but can cause you actual pain. Thankfully, that's unlikely to happen, and as a potential upside, someone else with a Pixel 8 Pro could use their temperature sensor to tell you how hot your phone is. Oh, sorry, too soon? This may well be one you have to learn to live with. If it becomes a widespread enough issue, Google may issue a patch that ratchets down the processor's power, but that's not likely to happen unless there are a lot of reports of this.
Solutions: Use power-saving mode to restrict the amount of power the processor uses -- and the heat it generates as a result.
Keep your phone out of direct sunlight.
Perform a restart, or a factory reset. If there's an app running in the background that's using too many resources, this could be fixed with a restart. If the problem persists, consider performing a factory reset — but be aware this will wipe all your data from your phone, so make sure to back up your information.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends 'Bumps' behind the screen The Pixel 8 and 8 Pro's display is gorgeous, but a few people have noticed distinct bumps and ridges on their phone screens.
 While they can be tough to spot, more than a few Pixel 8 and 8 Pro owners have noticed this issue, and brought it to the attention of the community at large. The culprit, while not officially confirmed, looks likely to be a number of springy "arms" that help hold the display panel in place. These arms seem to be putting pressure on the panel, causing small amounts of distortion. While it's possible this may be purely cosmetic and may not cause any long-term damage, a number of buyers have balked at the idea that such a premium phone would have such sloppy construction, and are attempting to return their phones.
Solution: There's only one solution here, and it's to return your smartphone, if the seller will allow it. Otherwise, if you can ignore them, then it may be worth hoping no lasting damage will be done to the screen over time.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends The camera app isn't working The Pixel 8 and 8 Pro's camera is phenomenal, so it's crushing that it's not working, according to quite a few people on Reddit. While most complaints have only been found in a single thread so far, they're notable enough that it's worth mentioning. Fairly few of these issues are consistent, and a lot of people are having their own different variations on the theme, but the general overview is the same: The camera app simply is not working. One user went to a lot of trouble to try out the usual fixes , and nothing seemed to work. Common factors include the main Camera app not working, though other apps with cameras do, glitches when opening the camera, and weird green lines across the front and back camera views.
Solutions: A restart is always worth trying.
As above, try a factory reset. Keep in mind you'll lose all your saved data as a result of this, so make sure to back up what you don't want to lose.
If none of that has worked, then it's time to to send that device back where it came from. Contact your seller and get a return, repair, or replacement arranged.
Editors' Recommendations Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro just had their prices slashed I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy Google’s Pixel phones are in trouble Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 UItra: don’t buy the wrong one The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new Android Google Google Pixel How-To Guides Mobile Google's 2023 flagship, the Google Pixel 8 Pro has landed — boasting a new third-generation Tensor G3 chip that promises to deliver even more sophisticated and powerful AI features like a new Magic Editor that will let you rearrange nearly everything in your photos, plus a new Night Sight for video. It's the phone to buy this year for fans of the pure Google Android experience.
The Pixel 8 Pro has improved its durability by featuring Corning’s Gorilla Glass Victus 2 on both its front screen and back glass. Moreover, the back glass is now frosted matte instead of being a glossy fingerprint magnet like its previous model. Although this upgrade gives you fewer reasons to put a case on your Pixel 8 Pro, it’s important to note that even Corning’s best glass is not entirely immune to scratches and scuffs. Therefore, getting a good case will not only help to protect your investment but also allow you to add your own personal touch. We have compiled a list of the best Pixel 8 Pro cases to safeguard your new phone right from the start.
Mobile Every fall, there’s lots of pumpkin spice, spooks, and flagship phones from Google and Apple. This year, Google released the powerful Google Pixel 8 Pro, while Apple upped the ante with the iPhone 15 Pro.
While the Google Pixel 8 Pro is more comparable to the iPhone 15 Pro Max, we wanted to see how it would do against the smaller iPhone 15 Pro as well. After all, the regular iPhone 15 Pro is still considered a flagship, and both phones share the same $999 price tag.
Mobile Apple iPhone 15 Plus (left) and Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple launched the iPhone 15 lineup in September, and it seems to have been a big hit among the public. The standard iPhone 15 is one of the biggest upgrades for the regular model in quite some time, and the iPhone 15 Pro Max now has one of the best camera systems available on a smartphone today.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
