Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How to take a screenshot on the Samsung Galaxy S23 By Christine Romero-Chan and Bryan M. Wolfe Close Are you ready for a new generation of smartphones that will take your breath away? Look no further than the Samsung Galaxy S23 series. These flagship devices, which include the Galaxy S23 , Galaxy S23 Plus , and Galaxy S23 Ultra , boast cutting-edge features like the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor, top-of-the-line cameras, and unbeatable battery life. But if you’re new to the Android world or just need a refresher, you might be wondering how to take a screenshot on these beauties. Don’t worry, we’ve got your back! Our expert tips and tricks will have you snapping screenshots like a pro in no time. These steps also work with the Galaxy S23 FE ! Galaxy S23 screenshot: volume and power buttons Galaxy S23 screenshot: palm swipe to capture Galaxy S23 screenshot: scrolling screenshot Galaxy S23 screenshot: smart select Galaxy S23 screenshot: use the S Pen on the S23 Ultra Difficulty Duration What You Need A Galaxy S23 , S23 Plus, S23 Ultra, or S23 FE In case you haven’t noticed, screenshots are a great way to capture what you see on the screen of your device and send or share it with others, such as through social media. It’s also a great way to help others out with figuring things out (like this how-to guide). Here’s how to take a screenshot on your Galaxy S23.
Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends Galaxy S23 screenshot: volume and power buttons This is the easiest way to capture a screenshot, and it’s the most basic method. With this option, you’ll just capture whatever is on the screen at the time. If you plan to use this method to capture multiple screenshots in quick succession, though, you may want to wait until the screenshot preview thumbnail in the bottom left corner disappears first. This takes about 3–4 seconds.
Step 1: Place your fingers on both the volume down and power buttons at the same time.
Step 2: Press the buttons simultaneoulsy.
Just like that, you've taken a screenshot on your Galaxy S23.
Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy S23 vs. Galaxy S23 Plus: a tough choice to make Don’t need the latest model? Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 is $99 today Can an Android phone replace my iPhone? I found out Galaxy S23 screenshot: palm swipe to capture Unlike Apple’s iOS, there are multiple ways to take screenshots. With the Galaxy S23, one of those other methods is by using a palm swipe gesture. This is an advanced feature, but it should be on by default. You can also manually turn it off or on through the Settings app. When this is on, you simply swipe across the screen with the edge of your hand to take a screenshot.
Step 1: Open the Settings app.
Step 2: Select Advanced features.
Digital Trends Step 3: Select Motions and gestures.
Step 4: Make sure the toggle for Palm swipe to capture is set to the On position.
Digital Trends Step 5: Swipe the edge of your hand across the screen to take a screenshot.
Galaxy S23 screenshot: scrolling screenshot Sometimes you’ll want to screenshot something that won’t completely fit on the screen at once, such as a very long and wordy Facebook post. While you could take multiple screenshots and either send someone a bunch of images or stitch them together yourself, there’s another method that can save you a lot of time.
On the Galaxy S23, you have the option to take a scrolling screenshot, which is basically a longer screenshot that captures the screen as you scroll down. The option to capture a scrolling screenshot appears in a toolbar button that shows up once you take a regular screenshot, so you’ll have to use one of the previous two methods to get access to this option.
Step 1: Take a screenshot using one of the methods mentioned above.
Step 2: Select the Scrolling screenshot button on the screenshot toolbar that pops up next to the screenshot thumbnail. It has two downward-pointing arrows inside of a square.
Step 3: Keep selecting the scrolling screenshot button as needed until you have captured everything that you need.
Digital Trends Galaxy S23 screenshot: smart select Sometimes the opposite is true, and you only need a small part of the actual screen capture. Maybe you just want to highlight a single comment on a Facebook thread or just one paragraph on an article you found on the web. For these situations, you want to use the smart select tool instead of scrolling screenshot. Accessing this is the same as scrolling screenshot — you can only get access to this toolbar button after taking a screenshot using one of the first two methods mentioned in this guide.
Step 1: Take a screenshot using one of the methods mentioned above.
Step 2: Select the Smart select button on the screenshot toolbar that pops up next to the screenshot thumbnail. It has a crop icon with a pencil on top of it.
Step 3: Drag the corner handles to adjust the selection. If there are images in the screenshot, you can tap to zoom in on that image and crop out everything else.
Digital Trends Step 4: If you need to Annotate the screenshot , use the Pen and eraser tools in the toolbar.
Step 5: Once you’re done, select the Share or Save buttons on the toolbar.
Digital Trends Galaxy S23 screenshot: use the S Pen on the S23 Ultra If you have the Galaxy S23 Ultra, you have access to a fifth method of taking screenshots thanks to the S Pen that it comes with. To do this, all you have to do is eject the S Pen from its compartment on the S23 Ultra. Once that’s done, it shows screenshot shortcut buttons on the screen.
Step 1: Eject your S Pen on the S23 Ultra from the compartment.
Step 2: A pop-up menu of all things you can do with the S Pen appears on the screen — there are two screenshot options: Smart select and Screen write.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Step 3: With Smart select, follow the instructions above, using your S Pen instead of your finger to make your adjustments.
Step 4: With Screen write, follow step 4 in the Smart select section above, using your S Pen instead of your finger to draw and annotate on the screenshot capture.
As you can see, it's very easy to take a screenshot on the Galaxy S23 series, including the S23 Plus, S23 Ultra, and S23 FE. And once you take a screenshot, you have even more options by taking a longer, scrolling screenshot that can show more information in a single image, or a manual selection to highlight something important. And you can annotate a screen capture too.
Those with an S23 Ultra have the S Pen, which has a variety of options that pop up once you eject the S Pen from the compartment, including screenshots. Regardless, the screen-write and smart select features can both be used with your finger on the regular S23 and S23 Plus, as those don't have S Pen compatibility.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore When is my phone getting Android 14? Here’s everything we know Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more Samsung just killed one of its most important Android phones Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 UItra: don’t buy the wrong one Android Google How-To Guides Samsung Mobile There are a lot of options out there if you’re looking to get yourself one of the best tablets, but if you’re looking to grab some savings as well, you should check out the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra. The popular tablet makes a great alternative to the Apple iPad Pro and it’s marked down to $950 at Best Buy right now. This is one of the best tablet deals you’ll find today, as the Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra regularly costs $1,100. This deal makes for a savings of $150, and free shipping is included.
Why you should buy the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra When the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra was first released we called it not only the king of Samsung’s tablet lineup, but also the king of tablets. And while the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra is now the newest Galaxy Tab on the market, the S8 Ultra is still a more than worthy option. The screen comes in at 14.6 inches, which is one of the larger displays you’ll find in a tablet. It’s an immersive and responsive display that’s good for watching all of your favorite content, or for creating content of your own.
Mobile Samsung Galaxy S23 FE Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends Samsung has a new Galaxy S23 model out, and it’s called the Samsung Galaxy S23 FE. It’s a slightly watered-down version of the regular Galaxy S23 with a lower price tag to match, but why is it called an “FE”? Mobile There are some fantastic phone deals around on the stylish and powerful Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5. A highlight in the folding phone world, this is the ideal device if you want to stand out from the crowd. Right now, you can buy it direct from Samsung with up to $1,000 instant trade-in credit depending on the device you have to trade in, bringing it down to $800. Alternatively, if you don't have anything to trade in, you can get it from Amazon for $1,500, saving $300 off the regular price. Whichever deal sounds best to you, keep reading while we take you through what you need to know about the phone.
Why you should buy the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Topping our roundup of the best folding phones, the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 is an absolute delight. It's finally demonstrated how the folding phone has come of age. It has a 6.2-inch cover screen for one-handed scrolling and anything basic, and it unfolds to open up to a 7.6-inch interior screen. Both look gorgeous with a new Flex Hinge mechanism ensuring the phone can close without a gap.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
