Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides iOS 17: How to use photo cutout to cut and paste images By Jesse Hollington Close The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
How to create and copy a photo cutout How to share a photo cutout in another app How to copy a photo cutout using drag and drop How to create an iMessage sticker from a photo cutout What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro.
 While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Difficulty Duration What You Need An iPhone XS/XR or newer iOS 16 or iOS 17 You'll need at least iOS 16 on your iPhone to pull this off, or iOS 17 if you want to turn a subject into a sticker. However, what's great is that even though it's an expansion of Apple's Visual Look Up feature that lets you get more information about things like pets and flowers (and now even food and laundry labels in iOS 17 ), it doesn't just work with those objects. Your iPhone can pick out nearly any distinct subject from a photo, from people and animals to household appliances and coffee cups. What's more, the photos don't even have to be taken with your iPhone; you can lift the subject from nearly any image in your photo library, even screenshots from your favorite TV shows and games or even old black and white photos you scanned into your photo library years ago.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to create and copy a photo cutout The most straightforward way to use this feature is to copy the subject of a photo onto your system clipboard. You can paste that into any other app that supports images, such as Messages, Mail, Notes, or your favorite photo editor.
Step 1: Open a suitable image in the Photos app on your iPhone.
Step 2: Touch and briefly hold the subject of the photo until a glowing outline appears around it.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: Release your finger. A context menu should appear.
Step 4: Select Copy.
 The outlined subject is copied to your clipboard.
Step 5: Open another app and paste your clipboard content as you would for any other image. Only the subject of the photo will be pasted.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to share a photo cutout in another app If you merely want to share the subject of a photo via a messaging or social media app, you can skip the clipboard and do this directly via the iOS 17 share sheet.
Step 1: Open a suitable image in the Photos app on your iPhone.
Step 2: Touch and briefly hold the subject of the photo until a glowing outline appears around it.
Step 3: Release your finger. A context menu should appear.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: Select Share.
 The iOS sharing dialog appears.
Step 5: Select where you want to share the selected subject. The selected app opens as it would for sharing any other photo, but only the subject of the image appears.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to copy a photo cutout using drag and drop It's also possible to copy the subject of an image by dragging it from the Photos app into a third-party app that supports drag-and-drop. This works with most built-in apps like Mail, Messages, Notes, and Reminders. It's also convenient when working with third-party photo editors.
Step 1: Open a suitable image in the Photos app on your iPhone.
Step 2: Touch and briefly hold the subject of the photo until a glowing outline appears.
Step 3: Begin moving your finger without lifting it. You should see a copy of the subject being dragged out of the photo with your finger.
Step 4: Continue holding your finger on the image while using another finger to swipe up from the bottom of the iPhone screen to return to the home screen.
Step 5: Continue to hold your finger on the image, and use another finger to open the app you would like to drop the image into.
Step 6: In the target app, drag the image to where you would like to paste it and remove your finger to drop it in place.
What happens next will depend on the app. Photo editors will usually add the subject image as a new layer that you can move, resize, and edit in the same manner as any other image. Dropping the image into a messaging or social media app will paste it into a new post. If the target app doesn't support pasting images, nothing will happen, and the subject will be discarded.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to create an iMessage sticker from a photo cutout A fun new feature in iOS 17 lets you create your own iMessage stickers from your photos. The same method for copying and sharing a subject can now be used to turn it into a sticker directly from your Photos app. Here's how.
Step 1: In the Photos app on your iPhone, open an image that you'd like to turn into a sticker.
Step 2: Touch and briefly hold the subject of the photo until a glowing outline appears.
Step 3: Release your finger and a context menu should appear.
Step 4: Select Add Sticker.
 The Stickers dialog will appear and your subject will be dropped into the top slot. Depending on your iPhone model, this may take a second to happen. A context menu will appear above the new sticker once it appears Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 5: To move the sticker to a different spot in your collection, select Rearrange , touch and hold on the sticker, and drag it to its new position. When done, touch briefly anywhere in the Stickers window to exit rearrange mode.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 6: You can also add an effect to your new sticker right away by selecting Add Effect from the context menu. Your sicker will appear with the five available effect options — Original (no effect), Outline, Comic, Puffy, and Shiny. Choose the one you'd like to see a preview of it, and select Done when you're satisfied.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 7: When you're finished customizing your new sticker, select the X in the top-right corner of the Stickers dialog to close it. You'll find your new sticker waiting for you in the Messages app whenever you want to use it.
Editors' Recommendations iOS 17: How to delete a wallpaper on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen iOS 17: How to add a different home screen wallpaper on your iPhone These 7 apps make iOS 17’s StandBy mode even better Here’s what iOS 17’s coolest feature looks like in action Apple Apple iPhone How-To Guides Mobile Although this year’s iOS 17 release isn’t chock-full of the type of big “tentpole” features we’ve seen in recent years, like customizable lock screens and home screen widgets, there are some fun and exciting enhancements that will change the way you use your iPhone.
Perhaps the coolest and most significant of these is the new StandBy mode that lets you turn your iPhone into a smart display while it’s sitting on a charging stand. StandBy delivers a new lock screen experience that lets you quickly see information at a glance, even from across the room — showing photos, clocks, weather, and other info from a variety of customizable widgets. Incoming notifications, responses from Siri, and music playback controls also use StandBy to appear in an easily readable full-screen view.
Mobile Widgets have been a popular feature on iPhones for a long time. With iOS 17, these widgets have become interactive, creating a more immersive experience. With interactive widgets, you can take important actions right from your iPhone home screen and lock screen. For instance, you can complete to-do lists, play and pause media and podcasts, access your Home app controls, and much more — all without having to open any apps.
Interactive widgets aren't solely for Apple's native apps in iOS 17. Third-party developers are also embracing the new feature. While the list of apps that utilize the new feature is still short, a few have already stood out. Here are some interactive widgets worth exploring.
Copilot Mobile While we have yet to see any new iPads this year, Apple has just unleashed iPadOS 17, a major update for its tablet operating system that promises to breathe new life into any recent iPad model you already own.
Once you install iPadOS 17, you'll be able to enjoy the iPhone's lock screen features on the larger screen, plus the interactive widgets that also came to the iPhone in this year's iOS 17 update. In addition, iPadOS 17 boasts some nice improvements to Stage Manager, a new tablet-sized Health app, significantly improved PDF support in Notes, and even a throwback wallpaper from the original iPad era.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
