Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple Watch Series 9 just got its first big discount for Black Friday By Jennifer Allen Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Black Friday deals have begun early at Walmart with some fantastic Apple Watch deals meaning that the Apple Watch Series 9 is enjoying its first big discount. Usually priced at $399 for the 41mm model and $429 for the 45mm model, you can now save $50 off the regular prices and snag an Apple Watch Series 9 from just $349. Sure to be popular, let’s take a quick look at what it offers before you hit the buy button.
Apple Watch Series 9 (41mm, GPS) — $349, was $399: Apple Watch Series 9 (45mm, GPS) — $379, was $429: Why you should buy the Apple Watch Series 9 One of the best smartwatches around for Apple owners, the Apple Watch Series 9 is a delight to use. It demonstrates how smartwatches have truly come of age in recent years so they’re a must-have accessory, especially if you’re an active person.
One of the highlights is its ability to track all your movements. Via Apple’s Activity Rings system, you can monitor your steps, calories burned, stairs climbed, and much more. Alongside that, it sets personalized goals and rewards you with badges for completing certain activities. It’s truly motivating while being able to track many different activities from running to walking, swimming, lifting weights, or pilates.
The Apple Watch Series 9 has a great set of sensors too. You can keep an eye on your blood oxygen levels, take an ECG as needed, and you’ll also receive notifications if your heart rhythm becomes irregular or suddenly low or high. There’s also temperature sensing retrospectively to provide you with cycle tracking purposes. Other useful sensors include fall detection and crash detection keeping an eye on you whether you’re walking and falling or suffering a car accident.
Also tough with crack resistance, IP6X-certified dust resistance, and being swim proof, the Apple Watch Series 9 can be your constant companion, saving you from needing to grab your iPhone so often. It even tracks your sleep so you can build a good picture of how healthy you are.
The Apple Watch Series 9 usually costs $399 for the 41mm model with the 45mm model costing $429. Right now, at Walmart, you can save $50 on either model bringing the price down to $349 or $379. Check it out now if you’ve been waiting to buy a new Apple Watch.
Apple Watch Series 9 (41mm, GPS) — $349, was $399: Apple Watch Series 9 (45mm, GPS) — $379, was $429: Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more The best Samsung tablet Black Friday deals — from only $100 Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more Deals Apple Apple Watch Wearables Mobile Black Friday deals mean plenty of chances to save big on new gadgets you might want such as a new Fitbit. Fitbits are one of the best ways to track all your steps, calories burned, and all kinds of other things so you can work towards becoming the best you that you can be. Throughout the year, there are plenty of Fitbit deals around but things get extra special during the holidays season. We've picked out some of the best Fitbit Black Friday deals around below, some that rival the best Black Friday Apple Watch deals and Garmin Watch Black Friday deals. Further down, we've also looked at what you need to know about them so you choose the right one for you this Black Friday.
Best Fitbit Black Friday deals Fitbit Ace 3 -- Mobile For active tech fans, a Garmin Watch is near essential. The best Garmin Watches are generally more robust than the average smartwatch and they're designed with an active lifestyle in mind. That means better navigation features, better tracking of whatever it is you're doing, and even training plans to help you perfect that marathon you're aiming towards. Some of the best smartwatches around for avid runners, swimmers, or hikers, it's great to see some awesome Black Friday deals pop up for those seeking Garmin watches. We've picked out the very best Black Friday smartwatch deals around and listed them below.
Best Garmin Watch Black Friday deal Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch -- $250, was $350 The Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch is primarily a running watch and perfect for helping you train for your next big race. Not only does it tell you how far and how hard to run but its training plans also encourage you to rest, planning out periods of time for recovery. An impressive 14 days of battery life in smartwatch mode or up to 30 hours in GPS mode mean no need to charge so often compared to regular smartwatches.
Mobile A few years ago, the idea of having a tablet made specifically for kids might have seemed weird, but in today's world, tablets for kids are perfect to help with various tasks, not just entertainment. Of course, all the big brands have tried to get into the game, like Samsung and Amazon, and while it might be nice to grab something like the Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids Edition, it can be expensive and hard to justify the cost of. Luckily, some great alternatives are much cheaper than usual because of the ongoing Black Friday deals we're seeing this month. For example, the Contixo 7-inch Android Kids Tablet has a pretty high rating of 4.4 on Walmart with over 14,000 five-star reviews, and you can grab it now for just $49 instead of the usual $80.
Why you should buy the Contixo 7-inch Android Kids Tablet For the most part, the Contixo is an Android tablet that has been reskinned and made for kids, so you won't get the traditional Android experience and Play Store, which is good when you're giving this to kids who might not know better. What makes it great, though, is that it's preloaded with a bunch of kid-related content, like Disney e-books and other learning games and educational apps, which can help with your child's healthy growth, as opposed to just sitting and watching something all day. It has 32GB of storage, too, so you can store a lot of extra content that caters to your kids if you want, so you can keep them entertained and engaged for long trips where there might not be internet access.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
