Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple Watch Ultra 2 just got its first serious discount By Aaron Mamiit Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends If you were hoping that the recently released Apple Watch Ultra 2 will appear with a discount in this year’s Black Friday deals , you’re in luck because the smartwatch’s 49mm, GPS + Cellular model is currently $60 off from Amazon. From $799, the wearable device is down to $739 — it’s still not cheap, but it’s rare to enjoy savings when buying an Apple product that’s just a couple of months old. There’s no telling how long the offer will remain online though, so before it gets taken down, push through with your purchase.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra 2 We tagged the Apple Watch Ultra 2 as the best premium smartwatch for the iPhone in our list of the best smartwatches , and at first glance, it’s obvious why. The 49mm titanium case and Always-On OLED touchscreen will catch anybody’s attention because of their size and brightness, while the wearable device itself is very fast and smooth because it’s powered by Apple’s new S9 chipset. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 can last up to 36 hours on a single charge that may be extended to up to 72 hours in Low Power Mode, and it offers a comprehensive suite of health-related and fitness features. It also comes with the customizable Action button for a more convenient way of accessing your apps.
Between the Apple Watch Ultra 2 and Apple Watch Ultra , you’ll want to go for the new version of the smartwatch because of its brighter display at 3,000 nits from 2,000 nits, an upgraded processor and Neural Engine that enables improvements such as more accurate speech recognition and the new Double Tap feature, and twice the internal storage at 64GB, among others.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
We didn’t expect that the Apple Watch Ultra 2 will be part of this year’s Black Friday Apple Watch deals since it’s fresh off the oven for Apple, so we’re surprised that its 49mm, GPS + Cellular model is on sale with a $60 discount from Amazon that pulls its price down to $739 from $799. There are lots of more affordable options for smartwatches in the market, but nothing comes close to the Apple Watch Ultra 2, so complete the transaction now so that you don’t miss this chance to get one for cheaper than usual.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more Best Fitbit Black Friday deals: Save on Fitbit Sense 2 and more Deals Amazon Apple Apple Watch Wearables Mobile For active tech fans, a Garmin Watch is near essential. The best Garmin Watches are generally more robust than the average smartwatch and they're designed with an active lifestyle in mind. That means better navigation features, better tracking of whatever it is you're doing, and even training plans to help you perfect that marathon you're aiming towards. Some of the best smartwatches around for avid runners, swimmers, or hikers, it's great to see some awesome Black Friday deals pop up for those seeking Garmin watches. We've picked out the very best Black Friday smartwatch deals around and listed them below.
Best Garmin Watch Black Friday deal Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch -- $250, was $350 The Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch is primarily a running watch and perfect for helping you train for your next big race. Not only does it tell you how far and how hard to run but its training plans also encourage you to rest, planning out periods of time for recovery. An impressive 14 days of battery life in smartwatch mode or up to 30 hours in GPS mode mean no need to charge so often compared to regular smartwatches.
Mobile A few years ago, the idea of having a tablet made specifically for kids might have seemed weird, but in today's world, tablets for kids are perfect to help with various tasks, not just entertainment. Of course, all the big brands have tried to get into the game, like Samsung and Amazon, and while it might be nice to grab something like the Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids Edition, it can be expensive and hard to justify the cost of. Luckily, some great alternatives are much cheaper than usual because of the ongoing Black Friday deals we're seeing this month. For example, the Contixo 7-inch Android Kids Tablet has a pretty high rating of 4.4 on Walmart with over 14,000 five-star reviews, and you can grab it now for just $49 instead of the usual $80.
Why you should buy the Contixo 7-inch Android Kids Tablet For the most part, the Contixo is an Android tablet that has been reskinned and made for kids, so you won't get the traditional Android experience and Play Store, which is good when you're giving this to kids who might not know better. What makes it great, though, is that it's preloaded with a bunch of kid-related content, like Disney e-books and other learning games and educational apps, which can help with your child's healthy growth, as opposed to just sitting and watching something all day. It has 32GB of storage, too, so you can store a lot of extra content that caters to your kids if you want, so you can keep them entertained and engaged for long trips where there might not be internet access.
Mobile If you already own the new Apple iPhone 15 or any of its variants but you're still stuck with a basic case, it's highly recommended that you take advantage of this year's Black Friday deals to enjoy some savings on a much-needed upgrade. Not only should you be providing the necessary protection for your iPhone 15 to keep it unscathed, but it would be a huge bonus to place it in a case that looks stylish and matches your personality. However, there's a problem -- there are thousands of iPhone 15 case deals that are available for Black Friday, so it's going to be very hard to narrow down your choices. That won't stop us from trying though, so you should read on.
Best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deal For serious protection without making your iPhone 15 too heavy, you should go for the OtterBox Commuter Series, which is on sale in Amazon's early Black Friday deals for $35 instead of $40. The $5 discount may not look like much, but it's a welcome bonus for what we've tagged as the best rugged case in our roundup of the best iPhone 15 cases. It's capable of withstanding three times the military standards for drop protection with a hybrid dual-layer construction that combines recycled rubber with a rigid outer shell, but it stays slim and lightweight so your iPhone 15 won't feel like a brick in your hands. We're not sure if this lowered price will remain online through to the shopping holiday, so you should think about making the purchase right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
