Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Features Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages By Andy Boxall Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Double Tap is one of the coolest features I’ve used on the Apple Watch in a long time. It’s not the most useful, and I don’t find myself using it that often, but when I do have a need to tap my fingers together to activate a function, I’m still at the stage where I think, “Wow, this is a really impressive thing.” I was worried about Double Tap Why the feature is so cool (and a bit odd) What’s the future for Double Tap? Here’s why it’s an example of what Apple does best — and why there’s so much potential for the future in it.
I was worried about Double Tap Apple Watch Series 9 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Double Tap arrived with the official release of watchOS 10.1 , not with the initial release of the Apple Watch Series 9 and the Apple Watch Ultra 2.
 This put me off a bit at the time, along with the rather limited amount of functionality, and I was concerned it was going to be either a gimmick or still a work in progress. It was enough for me not to bother using the public beta version of the operating system and just to wait for the final full release before trying it out.
Apple Watch is bringing back a popular feature soon I wore a G-Shock watch that rivals the Apple Watch Ultra 2 Waiting for the Apple Watch Ultra 3? We have bad news I really need not have worried. While it’s sometimes a little slow to react, Double Tap has so far, for me, had a faultless reliability record. When I double tap my fingers together, the little symbol appears at the top of the Apple Watch Series 9’s screen and does what I expect. This isn’t what makes me think it’s cool, though. It’s cool because of how it works in the first place. It’s incredible that a combination of hardware sensors and software algorithms know when I tap my fingers together at all , let alone consistently recognize this subtle, simple gesture and translate it into action.
This is what I mean about Double Tap showcasing something Apple does really well. Apple has a special ability to take a seemingly simple enough thing — tapping two fingers together to prompt an action — and then use really technically interesting methods to turn it into something that works reliably for almost everyone on a device without any method of “seeing” what you’re doing, and without any need to configure or train it to do so. This frictionless, effortless, easy-to-live-with approach defines the Apple Watch for me in general, from the way it tracks your health and exercise to the way it deals with notifications.
Why the feature is so cool (and a bit odd) Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I’m still at the stage where Double Tap gives me a smile when I use it, but unfortunately, this smile is pretty rare unless I force myself to use it, as functionality is quite limited. It can answer calls, activate a reply to a message, dismiss notifications, play and pause music, or scroll through the widgets in watchOS 10’s new Smart Stack.
 It can also be configured to skip a music track or select a widget for a more detailed look. There may be a few more things it can do, but it’s still only a small, one-action skill set.
It is also not something I need to use all the time. Double Tap is supposed to be for when you don’t have the ability to tap the Apple Watch’s screen, not just for general duties. The slight lag that’s sometimes encountered means it’s usually quicker (and arguably more natural) to tap the screen if you have the ability to do it anyway.
Smart Stack Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Plus, when I’ve been messing around with Double Tap, I have been given some weird looks using it. It needs a proper, full gesture to make it work and not one that can be surreptitiously performed on the sly. Not everyone will understand you’re making this movement to interact with your Apple Watch, so be prepared for a sideways glance or two.
Another odd effect is how I’ve wanted to use a second gesture after Double Tap. For example, when I Double Tap through my Smart Stack widgets, I almost want to clench my fist to select one, effectively giving myself complete hands-free control of the Apple Watch in all situations. This is part of Apple’s AssistiveTouch accessibility feature , which I’ve tried in the past, and is possibly even a prelude to what Apple may do with Double Tap in the future.
What’s the future for Double Tap? Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Whether Double Tap evolves into a more varied gesture control system available for use on the Apple Watch at all times is only one of the reasons it makes me excited about the future. It’s also knowing gestures similar to Double Tap will be used to control the Vision Pro headset.
 While it seems the Apple Watch won’t be required to use them with the Vision Pro (it’s the camera system that will recognize gestures), it’s possible that should it be paired with an Apple Watch in some way, the system may be able to do more.
The Vision Pro won’t come with controllers , and apparently, Apple won’t even make a physical controller of its own available as an accessory. It means that many people will ( at first, at least ) only control the headset through eye tracking and gesture recognition. Double Tap’s simplicity and reliability on the Apple Watch gives me confidence in this future system, as it needs to be equally as seamless for people to immediately gel with the Vision Pro’s inevitably unique experience.
What started out as a feature I feared may be forgettable (or not even work very well) has made me even more intrigued by the Vision Pro — and also reminded me why Apple and the Apple Watch are peerless in the world of smartwatches. It has neatly incorporated a simple yet technically complex feature and made it usable, reliable, and accessible to everyone. Meanwhile, other smartwatches are still struggling to get notifications right.
Editors' Recommendations How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes Subscriptions are quickly ruining fitness trackers The Apple Watch could get two amazing health features next year You’ve probably never seen an iPhone case like this before I tried Double Tap on my Apple Watch. Here’s why I love it Apple Apple Watch Features Wearables Mobile From the moment I put the Apple Watch Series 9 on, I noticed something different about it compared to the Apple Watch Series 8. Not bad, just different, and it concerns one of the elements that raise the Apple wearable over much of the competition: its amazingly tactile haptic feedback.
Does this discovery, combined with the fact that I can’t try out the top new feature yet, mean I’m disappointed with the new smartwatch? There's something different about this Apple Watch Mobile Apple’s Wonderlust event gave us plenty of shiny new hardware, from the iPhone 15 lineup to the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2. Oh, and don’t forget the USB-C AirPods Pro 2! During the event, Apple also showed off a cool new gesture that’s coming to the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2: Double Tap. Though Apple made it seem like a completely new thing, it’s actually been around since the Apple Watch Series 4 as an accessibility feature called AssistiveTouch.
Mobile The Apple Watch Ultra 2 announcement from Apple's iPhone 15 event needs some thinking about before it makes sense. Why? At first, it looked like a product barely deserving of the name due to a disappointing list of upgrades, the addition of only a few new features, and the fact that it has exactly the same look as last year’s model.
This is all factually correct, but I’m about to explain why it was to be expected — and why it doesn’t matter at all.
It’s not for Apple Watch Ultra owners Apple Watch Ultra Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
