Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Features Subscriptions are quickly ruining fitness trackers By Christine Romero-Chan Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends Once upon a time, you could buy a fitness tracker like a Fitbit, strap it on your wrist, and go about your life. There’d be a companion app that would sync with your tracker, giving you an in-depth look at your daily activity, health stats, and even sleep tracking. All of this data was available for free; you just had to buy the tracker itself. One and done.
The current state of fitness tracker subscriptions It’s not as simple as ‘just don’t subscribe’ This is getting out of control But things aren’t so simple now. Sure, you do have smartwatches like the Apple Watch that can also keep track of your daily activity and health metrics, but there’s a whole other world of dedicated fitness and health trackers as well. These typically can provide even more in-depth data about your health and well-being, but a lot of them have, unfortunately, moved to subscription-based models.
 Though they may have free tiers available, they’re almost worthless with the information you get without paying.
The days of getting a simple device for tracking your health are becoming a thing of the past, whether you like it or not.
The current state of fitness tracker subscriptions An Oura Ring next to an iPhone and Apple Watch Andy Boxall / Digital Trends When we think of health wearables, we probably think of the Apple Watch or Samsung Galaxy Watch first. These are smartwatches that also double as health and activity trackers, and surprisingly, they don’t have any additional hidden fees for the health benefits.
Personally, I’ve been wearing an Apple Watch for years, and it’s my main wearable (currently a first-generation Apple Watch Ultra ). But I have a few other devices I also use daily: an Oura Ring , a Withings Body+ scale, and a Withings Scanwatch (the Ultra is too bulky to wear to bed).
But what I have is just a small sample of what is currently available on the market today. There’s the Whoop band , a variety of Fitbits , the Google Pixel Watch 2 , plenty of watches from Garmin, and more. But one thing that most of these wearables have in common is the fact that it’s strongly recommended to have a premium subscription to get the most out of any of these devices (and in the case of Whoop, the hardware is free with a required subscription).
Andy Zahn / Digital Trends The prices for these subscriptions range from $6 (Oura) to $30 (Whoop) a month. When you add that subscription price to the cost of the hardware itself, then it can definitely become a pretty chunk of change. For example, the Oura Ring starts at $300 and goes up to $549, depending on your design and finish. Add 11 months (you get a month free with purchase), and the total can get up to $615.
In a world where everything seems to be moving to subscription models (streaming services, apps, etc.), having to add a health/fitness subscription takes even more thought and consideration.
It’s not as simple as ‘just don’t subscribe’ Oura Ring Horizon Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Though none of these wearables absolutely require a subscription (the only exception is Whoop), it’s often the case that the information that they provide for free is so limited and basic that it’s essentially worthless.
I’ve been wearing an Oura Ring for around three years total, since the second generation. I got the third-generation Oura when it launched and have been using it for the past two years. Previously, with the second generation, Oura did not have a subscription model, and you could access all of the data without having to pay anything besides the ring cost.
But with the Oura Ring 3, the company switched to a subscription model, and if you don’t have a membership, you only get to see your three daily Oura scores (Readiness, Sleep, and Activity), ring battery level, and basic profile information. You can also access the app settings and view the Explore section. You miss out on all of the actual data, like heart rate, stress levels, body temperature, blood oxygen levels, HRV, and more. Basically, any worthwhile data is locked behind the Oura membership; if you don’t subscribe, the Oura Ring is essentially useless.
 I subscribe to Oura because I find the insight it provides valuable, especially when it comes to seeing my nightly body temperature and stress levels.
On the other hand, Withings is still pretty functional even without subscribing to its premium subscription, Withings+. With Withings+, it’s more about targeted guidance and motivational goals based on your health and activity data. So, while it’s nice to have if you’re determined to achieve your goals, it’s by no means necessary to make use of your current Withings devices.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The recent Google Pixel Watch 2, which is better than its predecessor, uses the Fitbit app for all of its health and fitness tracking. While you can access basic information like your daily steps/activity and sleep score for free, there are more features locked behind Fitbit Premium ($10 a month) — like the new Stress Management feature, in-depth sleep analysis, your Daily Readiness Score, and more.
Even though the Pixel Watch is Google’s equivalent to the Apple Watch and Samsung Galaxy Watch, most of the health features are only available with a premium subscription. It’s a bit scummy, and even though Google gives you six free months when you buy a Pixel Watch 2, the whole setup doesn’t feel particularly great.
This is getting out of control Andy Boxall / Digital Trends It feels like everything needs a subscription these days. I have multiple streaming video services with my husband, Apple One, cloud storage with Dropbox and Google, a few necessary app subscriptions, and Oura.
However, unlike other subscriptions, a health and fitness subscription also typically requires some associated hardware to go with it, which is an additional cost. Factor that in, and deciding which health and fitness platform to go with gets complicated — especially considering the fact that you need to wear these devices 24/7 to get the most out of them.
Fitness subscriptions aren’t entirely new, but it definitely feels like more and more brands are going the subscription route. For example, I didn’t even realize Withings had Withings+ until recently, though I’m thankful that it’s not required to get the data I want from my Body+ scale and ScanWatch.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Since I have the Oura Ring and like the data I get from it (plus it’s just super easy to wear a ring), I’ll be keeping my Oura membership. But it’s also absolutely ridiculous how useless the ring becomes if you don’t have a membership since you can’t actually get any meaningful data without paying extra.
I miss the days when you could buy one of these fitness trackers and that was that — no additional fees, no subscriptions, no paywalls. Just buy the tracker, wear it, and get that data. It’s just another reason why it feels like subscription fatigue isn’t going away anytime soon, and I’m getting tired of it.
Editors' Recommendations How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes How one bad decision is ruining all of Samsung’s new phones The most innovative smartwatches and wearables of 2022 Android Apple Apple Watch Features Google Pixel Samsung Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2023 Wearables Mobile A new year approaches, which means a new slate of smartphones will start to hit in a few months. One of the first that we’ll see in 2024 should be from OnePlus with its flagship OnePlus 12.
The OnePlus 11 is an excellent phone, as we indicated in our review. It’s one of the best phones you can get in 2023, and is right up there with great competitors like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, Google Pixel 8 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
Mobile If you were hoping that the recently released Apple Watch Ultra 2 will appear with a discount in this year's Black Friday deals, you're in luck because the smartwatch's 49mm, GPS + Cellular model is currently $60 off from Amazon. From $799, the wearable device is down to $739 -- it's still not cheap, but it's rare to enjoy savings when buying an Apple product that's just a couple of months old. There's no telling how long the offer will remain online though, so before it gets taken down, push through with your purchase.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra 2 We tagged the Apple Watch Ultra 2 as the best premium smartwatch for the iPhone in our list of the best smartwatches, and at first glance, it's obvious why. The 49mm titanium case and Always-On OLED touchscreen will catch anybody's attention because of their size and brightness, while the wearable device itself is very fast and smooth because it's powered by Apple's new S9 chipset. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 can last up to 36 hours on a single charge that may be extended to up to 72 hours in Low Power Mode, and it offers a comprehensive suite of health-related and fitness features. It also comes with the customizable Action button for a more convenient way of accessing your apps.
Mobile Double Tap is one of the coolest features I’ve used on the Apple Watch in a long time. It’s not the most useful, and I don’t find myself using it that often, but when I do have a need to tap my fingers together to activate a function, I’m still at the stage where I think, “Wow, this is a really impressive thing.” Here’s why it’s an example of what Apple does best — and why there’s so much potential for the future in it.
I was worried about Double Tap Apple Watch Series 9 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
