Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes By Christine Romero-Chan Close Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends It’s November, which means it’s Diabetes Awareness Month, with World Diabetes Day recently happening on November 14. According to data from the Apple Heart and Movement Study (AHMS) and Apple Women’s Health Study (AWHS) , there are about 537 million adults worldwide who are currently living with diabetes, with that number potentially reaching 643 million by 2030. In the U.S. alone, about two out of five people will develop diabetes in their lifetime, and more than one in three adults have elevated glucose levels that put them in the pre-diabetes zone.
Always checking my blood sugar levels Making sure I don’t forget my medication The Apple Watch helps me stay active Sleep is important too Technology is so useful for managing your health I was pre-diabetic since my college years (it runs in both sides of my family), but then my doctor officially diagnosed me with Type 2 diabetes around early 2018. However, I was told that my case was more “mild” than others and that taking some medication — while also cutting out carbs and sweets, plus daily exercise — can help me keep it under control.
Though I’m not perfect and could do better with my diabetes management, my iPhone and Apple Watch have proven to be valuable tools. Here’s how.
It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone Always checking my blood sugar levels Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Though I was never told that I needed to monitor my blood sugar, I wanted to do it anyway. I prefer to stay on top of things, and I also just like seeing the data.
The problem with traditional blood glucose monitors is the fact that they mostly look archaic and clunky, but I eventually found the One Drop diabetes management platform. I got its starter kit with the blood glucose meter, test strips, and lancet. The meter connects via Bluetooth to my iPhone, so any readings can sync directly with the app.
I typically check my glucose at least once a day, in the morning when I wake up. When I was pregnant, I checked my glucose pretty much after every meal since I was at risk for gestational diabetes, but I haven’t been as disciplined about that since. But if I know I just had a lot of sugar, or if I am feeling weak due to low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), then I will check when necessary.
All my readings are logged in the One Drop app, which also feeds all data back into the Apple Health app with everything else. The One Drop app also can give you an estimated A1C (average blood sugar levels over the past three months) based on your data, which I have found helpful to see if I’m still on track with my goals. The Apple Watch app also has a complication for viewing your average glucose levels for the day, which I found especially useful when I was pregnant.
It’s important to note that One Drop has been around for quite some time, but I just received an email over the weekend that they are shutting down its premium service and web store (where you can purchase diabetic supplies). Instead, the company is now shifting its focus to a minimally invasive body-worn sensor (continuous glucose monitor). The app will continue to work though, so I plan to keep using it.
One Drop is not the only app out there to help you keep track of your blood glucose levels. There are other apps like mySugr or Diabetes: M available on the App Store (along with plenty of other options), or you can even add data manually in the Health app.
Making sure I don’t forget my medication Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I mentioned earlier that my doctor prescribed me medication to help keep my blood glucose under control. But that’s not the only medication I take; I’m also on birth control and need prescriptions every now and then for anxiety. I also have a tendency to forget sometimes because life gets hectic, so I used to use a reminder app to help nag me about my medications.
With iOS 16 and watchOS 9, Apple added medications, vitamins, and supplements to the Health app.
 This lets you add everything that you need to take regularly and even get reminders and follow-up reminders to take them so you don’t forget. This is more beneficial than just using a basic reminder app since the Heath app also informs you of drug interactions (moderate, serious, or critical levels) and can also export your medication list for easy reference at doctor visits and such.
Since Apple added this feature, I’ve added my daily medications and it has absolutely helped me stay on top of taking everything, including my metformin, which I take twice a day (morning and evening). I get a reminder on both my iPhone 15 Pro and my Apple Watch Ultra , and when it pops up, I make sure to log it.
I also just like going back in the Health app at the end of the day and seeing the medication streak — it helps me stay on top of it all.
The Apple Watch helps me stay active Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends / Digital Trends I’ve been using activity trackers ever since they first started up. I remember getting a Jawbone Up when those were still a thing before moving onto Fitbit once Jawbone went out of business. But then Apple came along with the Apple Watch, and though I was skeptical at first (why do I need one when I have Fitbit?), I eventually caved and have been using one ever since.
Though it’s not perfect, I’ve found the Apple Watch to be one of the best tools I have to help me stay active as much as I can. Apple gamified staying active with the Activity rings, and I always try as hard as I can to make sure they are complete by the end of the day. I currently have a 1,726-day Move streak, and I intend to keep that going as long as I can.
When I get a Stand notification, I am made aware that I’ve been sitting too long and it’s time to stretch my legs and get some fresh air. I live next to a small park so I take advantage of that by taking my daughter out there every day to play and I can also walk several laps to get my steps in. My husband and I also take walks to some downtown eateries several times a week, and we often go to Disneyland since we live nearby. Even though these are all small little things, they all add up and help me stay active, which helps keep my blood sugar levels in check.
Another neat feature that Apple added with iOS 17 and watchOS 10 is the ability to see how much time you’ve spent in daylight. This was something I kind of glossed over when it was announced, but it’s been incredibly motivational for me. It’s an interesting stat, and it has helped push me to get outside much more just to see how much time in daylight I can rack up in a single day. It’s a bit more challenging now that winter is coming, though, since it gets dark incredibly early.
Sleep is important too Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Though a lot of diabetes management involves eating right (I could work on this more to be fair), losing weight, and exercising, sleep is also an important factor. A lot of research out there suggests that between 7–8 hours of sleep is recommended for adults with diabetes (and in general for everyone), as poor sleep makes managing it harder.
Though the Apple Watch is capable of sleep tracking, I don’t wear my Apple Watch Ultra to bed — it’s too bulky to wear overnight. Instead, I use my Oura Ring , which also provides much better sleep data than Apple Watch, in my opinion. It not only shows me the stages of sleep I was in, but things like timing, efficiency, restfulness, and more. It even tells me if I had enough deep or REM sleep for the night, and how it affects my overall readiness for the rest of the day.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I’ve been using the Oura Ring for about three years now, and it’s one of my favorite wearables despite moving to a subscription-based model to provide useful data.
 Not only does the in-depth sleep data give me good insight into how much sleep I actually get, but it also gives me an overview of my energy levels (Readiness score) and tracks my activity too, like my Apple Watch.
Though it may be an extra accessory, the Oura Ring has been a valuable addition to my toolkit for helping manage my diabetes.
Technology is so useful for managing your health Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I’m far from being a perfect example of excellent diabetes control — it’s hard without proper discipline. But I have found my iPhone and Apple Watch, along with other wearables like Oura Ring, to be valuable additions to aid me in my diabetes management journey.
I’m still waiting for Apple to add noninvasive blood glucose monitoring to the Apple Watch someday, so I don’t need to prick my finger as much. But that day may still be quite a ways off, and until then, I’ll keep using my current iPhone and Apple Watch to stay on top of things.
Editors' Recommendations Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages The iPhone is getting out of control I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case No, you really don’t need the iPhone 15 Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Apple Watch Features Wearables Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Mobile Once upon a time, you could buy a fitness tracker like a Fitbit, strap it on your wrist, and go about your life. There’d be a companion app that would sync with your tracker, giving you an in-depth look at your daily activity, health stats, and even sleep tracking. All of this data was available for free; you just had to buy the tracker itself. One and done.
But things aren’t so simple now. Sure, you do have smartwatches like the Apple Watch that can also keep track of your daily activity and health metrics, but there’s a whole other world of dedicated fitness and health trackers as well. These typically can provide even more in-depth data about your health and well-being, but a lot of them have, unfortunately, moved to subscription-based models. Though they may have free tiers available, they’re almost worthless with the information you get without paying.
Mobile Apple launched the iPhone 15 lineup recently, which includes the iPhone 15, iPhone 15 Plus, iPhone 15 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max. Of course, while the new series appears to be a hit with most, it’s not without its own set of issues too.
Despite the fact that the iPhone 15 has only been out for a few weeks, the rumor mill for the iPhone 16 has already begun, though it’s still quite early. But from what we’ve gathered so far, it looks like the iPhone 16 could be another worthy upgrade, especially if you haven’t picked up an iPhone 15 already.
More buttons and a haptic transition Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
