Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features I just spent $100 on Google Photos for a ridiculous reason By Joe Maring Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends Hi, my name is Joe, and I have a cloud storage problem.
Why this purchase was so stupid It’s all the Google Pixel 8 Pro’s fault Google is dragging me in It all happened this past Saturday. It was a rainy and chilly fall afternoon, I was getting ready to meet up with some friends for drinks, and there I was — sitting at my Mac mini, signing up for a 2TB Google One plan so I could store all of my pictures in Google Photos.
So far, this doesn’t sound all that bad. But the problem is that I really didn’t need to do this. But I did so anyway, and now I get to share my (potentially) idiotic purchase with all of you.
Why this purchase was so stupid Joe Maring / Digital Trends Let me be clear: on their own, Google One plans are a really good value. Spending $20 a year gets you 100GB of storage for Google Photos, Google Drive, Gmail, and device backups. You also get dark web monitoring, a VPN , and more editing tools in Google Photos. Spending more money on more expensive plans gets you additional storage and some extra perks.
I’ve been on the basic 100GB plan for a long time, but on Saturday, I decided it was time to upgrade to the 2TB plan for $100 a year. That’s a big upgrade on its own, but what makes it absurd is that I’m already paying $33 each month for an Apple One Premier plan. That plan gives me 2TB of iCloud storage, and it’s how I’m keeping my 13,000-plus photos and videos backed up to Apple Photos.
Apple Photos has been a perfectly fine service for housing my digital library, and I really don’t have any qualms with it. But here I am, now signed up for another 2TB storage plan for another place to store my thousands of pictures.
Why the hell did I do this? It’s all the Google Pixel 8 Pro’s fault Joe Maring / Digital Trends The answer is simple: I blame all of this on the Google Pixel 8 Pro.
I’ve been using the Pixel 8 Pro as one of the phones I carry daily with me (alongside the iPhone 15 Pro Max ), and I’ve enjoyed every second with it. The design is lovely, the Tensor G3 processor is surprisingly good , and its Android 14 software is a joy to use. But what’s really kept me hooked to the Pixel 8 Pro is its cameras.
The Google Pixel 8 Pro takes incredible photos. You can safely expect that any $1,000 phone these days will have high-quality cameras, but something about the Pixel 8 Pro has made it especially fun to shoot with. Maybe it’s because the phone is still new and I’m lingering in the honeymoon phase. But I think the bigger reason is that its cameras really are that damn good.
This was reinforced over the weekend when I took the Pixel 8 Pro with me to a local cider mill, a pumpkin patch, a couple of bars, and a nature trail. In all of these settings, the phone captured the scenes as well as I could have asked for.
But it’s not just the quality of the photos after you press the shutter button. I’ve also become surprisingly interested in the Pixel 8 Pro’s various AI editing tools — all of which require that you have your pictures backed up to Google Photos. Best Take has already come in handy a couple of times for some group photos, and while I’m not totally sold on Magic Editor, it’s surprisingly fun to play around with — even if the end result isn’t always great.
I’m also really looking forward to Zoom Enhance — a Pixel 8 Pro feature that’s “coming later.” In theory, you’ll be able to pinch-to-zoom on any photo backed up to Google Photos and digitally enhance the quality with AI. If it works as well as Google’s demo of the feature , it could be really powerful.
Whether it’s Best Take, Magic Editor, Zoom Enhance, or other features like Magic Eraser , all of these editing tools work on any picture you have in Google Photos — not just ones you took with the Pixel 8 Pro.
Google is dragging me in Joe Maring / Digital Trends Therein lay my dilemma. I plan on continuing to use the Google Pixel 8 Pro as one of my daily smartphones — and likely my camera of choice for the foreseeable future. I want to have easy access to the photos I take with it alongside my thousands of other images, and I want to mess with Google Photo’s growing editing tools on those years and years of old pictures.
Because the Pixel 8 Pro’s camera is so good and because Google Photos is suckering me in with its editing suite, I’m now the owner of a 2TB Google One plan despite not really needing one.
Part of me is looking forward to transferring my Apple Photos library to Google Photos and having two reliable places for all of my pictures, but another part of me dreads the idea of having to manage two separate cloud photo libraries.
Is there a moral to this story? Is this merely me trying to justify spending $100 I didn’t need to spend? I ultimately think it’s a testament to just how fantastic the Google Pixel camera experience is. From the minute you press the shutter button to the countless edits you can make to your photos afterward, no other phone offers a picture-taking experience like a Google Pixel does. And as someone who places a lot of value in that, I think my $100 may have been well spent.
Editors' Recommendations I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new This one Google Pixel 8 Pro feature is driving me crazy Google Pixel 8a: news, rumored price, release date, and more Android Apps Features Google Google Pixel Mobile One of the most surprising additions to Google’s Pixel hardware in recent years is temperature sensing. The Google Pixel 8 Pro comes armed with a temperature sensor that can measure the temperature of objects simply by “scanning” them from an optimum distance within the five-centimeter range. Google says the sensor is good for “beverages, cooking pan, water temperature, and more.” The smartphone community, however, is seemingly hell-bent on relegating it to gimmick status. But average Pixel 8 Pro owners are finding cool ways to use it. As detailed in this Reddit post, one Pixel 8 Pro user was stuck in a stormy situation that took out the power supply for 36 hours, putting them in a quandary regarding the status of food items kept in an out-of-power refrigerator.
Mobile I have a not-so-surprising confession: I tend to want every new phone that comes out. I'm a sucker for good marketing, and smartphone launches have some of the best marketing around. Whether it's a new feature like a telephoto lens, a bigger battery, a more vivid display, or a radically new form factor, I get a bad case of fear of missing out almost every time. It's why I often find myself buying the most expensive model, despite not really needing to.
So, I was slightly confused when the recent launch of the Google Pixel 8 Pro didn't leave me feeling like I wanted the phone at all. Or rather, I did, but the desire was undercut by another emotion: annoyance. I'm mad at the Pixel 8 Pro, but it's not for the reasons you might think.
Mobile Google released the next generation of Pixel devices recently, including the Google Pixel 8 and Google Pixel 8 Pro. These have been the best Pixel smartphones in a while, as they pack the improved Tensor G3 chip inside, better cameras, brighter displays, and more — all in a slightly updated design. I've been using the phones for a couple of weeks now, and I really like what Google's done with them.
But Google also added some more photo editing capabilities to the Pixel 8 lineup, with a heavy reliance on AI with the Tensor G3 chip. While these AI-heavy editing tools can help you chase perfection, they shouldn’t be relied on too heavily or abused.
The Pixel 8's AI tools are impressive ...
Magic Editor on the Google Pixel 8 Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
