Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News You should probably stay away from the Instagram Wrapped app By Nadeem Sarwar Close Digital Trends I’ll keep it simple. Stay away from the Wrapped for Instagram trend. The app has been making rounds in the App Store’s top bracket for the past few days, and the premise is a little too lucrative to ignore in the first place.
What is the Wrapped for Instagram app? Wrapped works, but it’s a terrible liar Is the Instagram Wrapped app a scam? Why you should stay away from Wrapped You may see your friends online showing off their Wrapped stats, but before you go and join in the “fun” for yourself, please consider the following first.
What is the Wrapped for Instagram app? Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Just like Spotify’s own “wrapped” system that offers an insight into your music streaming habits for the whole year, the new Wrapped app offers a dive into your Instagram usage trends.
Google Messages vs. Samsung Messages: Which app should you use? WhatsApp finally lets you edit sent messages. Here’s how to do it How to know if someone blocked you on WhatsApp It tells you the number of hours you spent on Instagram in 2023, your top online friends, the number of people who blocked you, and more. In real life, those statistics are not particularly accurate, and there is no explanation at all regarding how the app is making those calculations.
Now, before you go ahead and install it, you might want to pay attention to my own experience and how the app works. I installed the app last night and gave it access to my Instagram account. I woke up today to see that I have been logged out of that account on my iPhone.
A healthy bunch of users have also flagged concern on Reddit and other social platforms that this app is collecting login credentials for stealing data and hacking accounts. And that’s just the tip of the iceberg.
Wrapped works, but it’s a terrible liar Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends When you launch the Wrapped app for the first time, it asks you to connect your Instagram account by entering your login credentials. Once authenticated, it shows you some juicy account stats, as shown below.
The list of three accounts that the app curated as “Your 2023 top Friends” has my sister’s account at the top. But here’s the fun part. We barely exchange a meme or two within the DMs section in a month. I don’t even view her Instagram Stories. In the third position is a former colleague who only shares a post or two per week, if at all, but I never interact with their stories.
Previous Next 1 7 Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends In the second position is a friend whom I engage with on a daily basis, and overwhelmingly more than any person in my mutual circles. Then the app tells me I spent over 660 hours on Instagram last year. The screen time settings on my phone(s) tell me that my weekly time spent on Instagram is less than two hours.
I also know that, for a fact, I don’t spend more than two (or a maximum of three) hours per week on Instagram. That means my 2023 Instagram hours should not exceed the 200-hour mark, even by the most generous estimation. The Wrapped for Instagram app is off in its estimation by an error margin of at least 200% here. And I am not the only one seeing the obvious inaccuracies.
oh hunni thanks God it’s fake I did the Instagram Wrapped twice and it gave me two different things pic.twitter.com/LPcqlE2lJb &mdash; ✿💋!¡ ɐıssǝlɐ (BBL Love – Interlude 🐾) (@aIessiaa) November 4, 2023 The app also gives you a list of three accounts that viewed my profile, how many accounts took a screenshot of my posts, and the number of users that blocked me. The app claims to offer more granular insights but hides them behind a paid Diamond subscription. Digital Trends has reached out to the developers’ account on Instagram for more information and will update this post when we hear back.
Is the Instagram Wrapped app a scam? The current status of the developer’s website.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Talking about the developer, Wrapped Labs seems to have no online presence. The developer’s website listed on the App Store leads to a non-functioning web URL. Another suspicious element here is that instead of a dedicated website for the app or the developer’s business, what we have is a link to a Notion page documenting the app’s privacy policy.
But there are some red flags here as well. “For a better experience, while using our Service, we may require you to provide us with certain personally identifiable information,” reads the disclosure. This is a concerning declaration because handing over such personal data to a third-party app is a bad idea.
It’s also worth pointing out that the developer account on Instagram that I shot a DM to last night, well, is nowhere to be seen today. The app’s start-up page says all analysis happens on-device and that the developer team doesn’t get access to any of your log-in info, but history tells a different story with multiple scammy apps that have popped up in the past with similar promises.
If that wasn’t enough evidence to steer you away from the Wrapped app, Digital Trends received this comment from a Meta spokesperson when asked about the app: “This app violates our terms and we’ve asked Apple to remove it from the App Store.” It doesn’t get much clearer than that.
Why you should stay away from Wrapped Previous Next 1 4 Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Look, it’s never a good idea to connect a third-party app to your social media account. And when that app happens to be something like Instagram — where you post a lot of personal content — you should proceed with extreme caution. Here are just a few of the concerns regarding the app that is all over social media: You might ask why something like Spotify Wrapped is safe, but Wrapped for Instagram is not. Well, first of all, Spotify Wrapped is an in-house tool, which means your music streaming data is only accessed by tools created by Spotify and which run on the company’s own servers. In the case of Wrapped for Instagram, it’s an external app from a developer that we have never heard about.
Second, Spotify Wrapped is accurate, but this shady Instagram-linked app is anything but. Plus, we live in an age of generative AI, and it’s pretty darn easy to lift content from an Instagram profile and morph it. There is already precedence of such cases happening in the U.S., as explained in this report by The Washington Post.
Everything about the Wrapped for Instagram app seems fishy and a screaming red flag. I would strongly suggest that you steer clear of vanity Instagram usage stats in favor of keeping your social media account intact and your privacy unviolated. And given what Meta has told us, it’s likely just a matter of time before Wrapped from Instagram is booted from the App Store for good.
Editors' Recommendations Lapse app: what you need to know about the new Instagram killer WhatsApp now lets you add short video messages to chats Instagram finally lets you add multiple links to your bio Trusting mobile apps to identify plants might cost you your life It’s not just you: the Apple Weather app is down Apps Instagram Tech News Mobile Instagram is dying a slow, drawn-out death, and I don't think that I'm the only one to notice. The app has been at the center of controversy after controversy as Meta continuously shifts around its ambitions for it, tries to compete with other social media giants like TikTok, and packs itself full to bursting with suggested posts and a relentless number of advertisements. It feels like Meta is doing its best in order to maximize profits and draw users in, but from everyone I've talked to who feels the same as I do, we're only being pushed away.
As it's desperately tried to find a new identity, Instagram has become completely useless to me. It's an app full of content I don't care about that's plastered floor-to-ceiling with ads that have me closing it each time — feeling frustrated and that I might as well delete it to save myself some time and storage space.
Remembering what Instagram used to be Mobile Instagram has been ruffling the feathers of many users as of late with how many ads and suggested posts it shows from unfollowed accounts. Despite the frequent criticism of the app's near-constant ads, Meta announced in a recent blog post that Instagram will now feature an additional two new types of ads to clutter the feeds of all users.
One place where Instagram remained relatively ad-free was in the search results, as the app devoted that space entirely to directing people to the photos, reels, or other users that you're looking for. Now, users can expect to see ads popping up in the search results — making the results a little more padded and a little less helpful.
Mobile Android’s security woes need no introduction, but another threat that hasn’t received its fair share of awareness relates to spyware and stalkerware apps. These apps can secretly be installed on a victim’s phone to monitor their activity and can be exploited to harass victims of domestic abuse and engage in online stalking. All someone needs is physical access to the victim's phone to install these apps, which is not too difficult in cases of domestic abuse.
Call it an app-fueled version of AirTag stalking, but on steroids, because these spyware apps can steal everything including messages, call logs, emails, photos, and videos. Some can even activate the microphone and the camera, and secretly transfer these recordings to a remote server where the abuser can access it. Since Google Play's policies don't allow stalking apps, these apps are sold via third-party websites and need to be sideloaded.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
