Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Lapse app: what you need to know about the new Instagram killer By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Digital Trends It seems like new apps don’t create much excitement nowadays, but one app has caught people’s attention recently. It’s called Lapse , and it’s a photo-sharing app that is currently only available through invitation.
What is the Lapse app? Do you need an invite to join Lapse? Is the Lapse app free? Is the Lapse app available for Android? Should you download Lapse? The app was created to allow you to share photos with friends, not with followers, in fun new ways. Friends versus followers might seem a bit confusing, but it becomes clearer once you understand how the app operates.
Ready to learn more about Lapse and how it works? Let’s dig in.
Shopping at Apple this holiday season? You should know this Apple used this free iPhone app to shoot Monday’s Scary Fast event How to use iOS 17 FaceTime gestures (and what they look like) What is the Lapse app? Lapse If you have ever used a disposable camera, you can better understand the concept of Lapse. This app uses the same idea. When you take a photo within the Lapse app, it takes time to “develop,” just like with disposable cameras. It is noteworthy that the app does not have any filters or editing capabilities, and it is not possible to import existing photos from your phone to send to friends.
This approach of no editing, combined with the aspect of the image “developing,” aims to make sharing more personal. Lapse really differs from Instagram and other photo-sharing apps, and that difference is intentional.
In referencing how other photo-sharing apps work, Lapse explains , “We’ve been so caught up in (the game of getting followers), we forget the real reason we signed up in the first place.” Lapse is not just a photo-sharing app; it’s also a versatile platform. Apart from sharing photos, you can also create a journal that can be shared with your friends or kept private. Your profile will give you access to all your snaps, allow you to write journal entries, add music from Deezer, and do much more.
With Lapse, you can add existing content from your iPhone Photos app and add selfies to your journal. You can also select up to 36 photos to display on your profile, which will continuously shift on a loop. These loops can be shared via Instagram and Snapchat. You can also create albums that can be shared with others or kept private.
Do you need an invite to join Lapse? Lapse At present, you need an invitation to join Lapse. You can get an invitation from a friend who is already using the service or send out invitations to your contacts. This requirement is called “early access” by the Lapse team, which suggests the restriction could be removed in the future.
For more information about joining Lapse, download the app and follow the in-app instructions.
Is the Lapse app free? Lapse After receiving an invitation to join Lapse, you can use the app for free without any in-app purchases or advertisements. On the FAQ section of the Lapse website, the company says, “Lapse is totally free. We don’t run ads or sell your data — unlike other platforms.” It’s always possible that Lapse could start charging for access or introduce a monthly subscription, but for the time being, the app is 100% free to use.
Is the Lapse app available for Android? Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Lapse app is currently only compatible with iPhones and is not yet available for Android devices like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra or Google Pixel 8 Pro.
 It’s important to note that any Android developer who claims to offer a Lapse app through the Google Play Store or other platforms is promoting a fake app.
We wouldn’t be surprised if Lapse does eventually create an Android app, but at least right now, you’ll need an iPhone to use the app.
Should you download Lapse? Lapse Lapse has received almost 65,000 ratings on the App Store , with an impressive average rating of 4.8 out of 5. Early adopters seem to be delighted with the current state of Lapse and are eagerly anticipating future updates. However, many users find the joining process to be confusing and frustrating.
Some users have also complained about the time photos take to “develop.” Currently, the development time is kept as a closely held secret and deliberately varies, but you should not have to wait for more than a few hours.
It will be interesting to see whether Lapse gains traction and how it fares in the next few months or years. Will it prove successful like Instagram, or will it disappear altogether? Time will tell.
Editors' Recommendations No, you really don’t need the iPhone 15 Will my phone change for daylight saving time automatically? Apple’s new in-store device aimed at improving iPhone setup process Does the iPhone 15 break easily? What you really need to know These 7 apps make iOS 17’s StandBy mode even better Apple Apple iPhone Apps Tech News Mobile The Apple iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 series have been launched with much fanfare, but it seems that not all users are completely satisfied with the new handsets. Despite the many improvements and new features that come with these phones, users of both the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 have taken to social media to complain about overheating issues.
While this may not be a cause for immediate alarm, it is certainly something that Apple and its team of engineers will need to monitor closely, assuming there is a system-wide problem, which there might not be. The last thing anyone wants is for the new phones to become a safety hazard or for users to suffer damage to their devices.
Mobile Apple has rolled out iOS 17 globally, and if you’ve already installed it, you might be surprised by the lack of visual pizazz that it offers. That observation isn’t far from reality. With the exception of StandBy mode, which essentially turns your iPhone into a glorified smart display while charging, there really isn’t much of a visual wow factor here.
But if you dig deeper, you will find that Apple really flexed its design muscles at the most basic level — telephony. With iOS 17, Apple introduced Contact Posters. Think of them as a digital identity card, one that allows a heap of styling and really lights up your call screen.
Mobile It's finally here, folks: new iPhone season. Apple's iPhone 15 event wrapped up over a week ago, the first iPhone 15 reviews are trickling out, and it won't be that long before you start seeing the new lineup in every Best Buy and Target you go to.
My iPhone 15 Pro Max arrived on September 20, and at the time of publishing this, I've been using it for just about 48 hours. That's obviously not enough time for a full review, but during that limited amount of time, I've already learned some really important things about Apple's latest entry in the Pro Max family. It's very familiar in a lot of ways, but there are three specific changes that could make it a more worthwhile upgrade than expected — and I'm not talking about USB-C.
Titanium is a game-changer for the iPhone Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
