Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News MediaTek just made Wi-Fi 7 a lot more exciting By Jesse Hollington Close MediaTek The next evolution of wireless technology, Wi-Fi 7 , has been hitting its stride in recent months. Now, MediaTek is giving it a big boost with a duo of new Filogic chips that will power a whole new generation of Wi-Fi 7-capable devices, from enterprise access points and wireless mesh systems to smartphones and set-top boxes.
The Filogic 860 for premium routers The Filogic 360 for client devices Unsurprisingly, MediaTek was one of the first chipmakers on board when Wi-Fi 7 made its debut at CES 2022 , promising to deliver top speeds more than twice as fast as current Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E technologies.
 While Wi-Fi 7 is still in its nascent stages — few consumer devices support it, and the spec has yet to receive its final ratification — MediaTek’s second-generation Filogic chips will ensure that smartphones, laptops, and routers are ready to deliver the best of what the new standard has to offer.
“MediaTek stands out with the most comprehensive connectivity portfolio on the market, and we’re continuing this legacy with our two new advanced Wi-Fi 7 solutions designed for mainstream applications,” said Alan Hsu, MediaTek’s corporate vice president and general manager of Intelligent Connectivity Business in a press release. “Filogic 860 and Filogic 360 offer the same technology as our premium solutions with exceptional reliability in busy network environments, ultra-fast speeds with reduced latency and enhanced range.” MediaTek’s new chip just raised the bar for Android phones The new MediaTek Dimensity 7200 brings high-end tech to midrange phones MediaTek’s T800 chipset will bring ultrafast 5G to more devices than ever The Filogic 860 for premium routers MediaTek The flagship of the new duo is the Filogic 860, which will provide dual-band access and network processing to power back-end technologies in homes and businesses. With a triple-core Arm Cortex-A73 CPU, this provides enough horsepower to meet the demands of large corporations and service providers, but it’s also likely to find its way into some high-end Wi-Fi 7 routers.
Thanks to its hardware acceleration, the Filogic 860 will be able to power advanced tunneling and security features for use in Virtual Private Network (VPN) and firewall applications while also being able to seamlessly route Wi-Fi 7 traffic between nodes in a wireless mesh network.
The dual-band Wi-Fi support in the new chip also promises to deliver 7.2Gbps of maximum throughput. Those are the highest dual-band speeds currently available in the industry when using multi-link operations (MLO), a new Wi-Fi 7 enhancement that allows client devices to communicate with a router using multiple bands simultaneously — the 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands in this case.
Naturally, the Filogic 860 will support all the other advanced features of the Wi-Fi 7 draft spec that’s expected to be finalized early next year, including 4096-QAM (4K-QAM), plus support for adding an extra receive antenna to speed up dynamic frequency selection (DFS) and boost receiving range using MediaTek’s Filogic Xtra range support feature.
The Filogic 360 for client devices MediaTek On the other end, MediaTek’s Filogic 360 is a standalone chip that will provide Wi-Fi 7 support for consumer electronics like smartphones , laptops, set-top boxes, smart TVs, and more.
The Filogic 360 integrates triple-band Wi-Fi that supports 2.4GHz, 5GHz, and 6GHz frequencies and can handle speeds up to 2.9Gbps. The Wi-Fi 7 technology is joined by two Bluetooth 5.4 cores to provide enough throughput for gaming and Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) audio , which features an integrated digital signal processor (DSP) that can handle the newest LC3 codec.
Since Wi-Fi and Bluetooth can operate in the same 2.4GHz band, MediaTek has also baked advanced technology into the Filogic 360 to ensure that the radios don’t step on each other, plus Filogic Xtra range support to boost the usable distance of devices incorporating the new chip by using a “unique Hybrid MLO solution.” MediaTek has already begun sending out samples of the Filogic 860 and Filogic 360 chips to its manufacturing customers. The first Wi-Fi 7 capable devices incorporating the new chips are expected to arrive around mid-2024.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices This new MediaTek chip is great news for Android phones MediaTek’s new Dimensity 8200 brings flagship performance to cheaper phones MediaTek’s Dimensity 9200 chip is packed with world’s-first tech MediaTek’s Dimensity 1080 chip will bring 200MP phone cameras to the masses Tech News Mobile At MWC 2022, Qualcomm has revealed the FastConnect 7800 chipset, which it says is “the world’s first Wi-Fi 7 product.” FastConnect 7800 is a 14nm chip that supports Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 5.3, promising high-speed, low latency network connectivity, and wireless audio enhancements altogether. Among the supported 5GHz, 6GHz, and 2.4GhHz spectrums, Wi-Fi 7 utilizes the first two, whereas the lattermost is reserved for Bluetooth and lower-bandwidth Wi-Fi.
Mobile MediaTek recently marked its entry into the world of flagship system-on-chips (SoC) when it announced the MediaTek 9000 processor. The new mobile processor stakes the claim for being the first-ever 4nm chip to be based on ARM’S new Cortex X2 architecture. But did you know that the Dimensity 9000 has another first to its credit? As it turns out, the MediaTek Dimensity 9000 system-on-a-chip SoC also happens to be the first-ever mobile processor to support LPDDR5X DRAM. Developed by American memory giant Micron Technology, the announcement about LPDDR5X DRAM on the Dimensity 9000 comes just one week after Samsung Electronics announced the development of its own LPDDR5X DRAM module, which back then was claimed to be the world's first.
Mobile Qualcomm has a new mobile platform on the table, and this one targets upper-midrange smartphones and promises to bring some new AI tricks. The latest from the chipmaker is the Snapdragon 7 Gen 3, which technically succeeds the Snapdragon 7+ Gen 2, but the company is comparing most of the improvements against the older Snapdragon 7 Gen 1.
The new platform is said to bring a 15% boost in processing power, a 20% rise in energy efficiency, and a massive 50% jump in graphics capabilities. Based on the 4nm fabrication process, it packs a single prime core, a trio of performance cores, and four efficiency cores. Interestingly, these cores are clocked at a lower frequency compared to those on the Snapdragon 7+ Gen 2. However, this won't be the only area where Qualcomm's latest sounds like a mixed bag.
Qualcomm says the new chip improves AI-assisted face detection accuracy, but it adds that AI also lends a hand at tasks like making sense of routines and how users interact with apps. There are also a handful of new software-side enhancements coming to the Snapdragon Gen 7 series for the first time.
Those include an AI re-mosaicing system for reducing grainy textures in photos, bringing down noise, and video retouching. Support for Ultra HDR is also a first for the midrange chip. Spatial audio with head tracking and CD-quality wireless audio are a part of the package as well.
The Snapdragon 7 Gen 3 jumps to the X63 cellular modem that promises a higher downlink speed of up to 5Gbps. Interestingly, it adopts the Fast Connect 6700 Bluetooth + Wi-Fi modem instead of the speedier Fast Connect 6900 modem on the Snapdragon 7+ Gen 2.
The camera capabilities situation is also interesting. The Snapdragon 7 Gen 3 relies on a triple 12-bit ISP system, while the Snapdragon 7+ Gen 2 puts its trust in a more advanced triple 18-bit ISP architecture. The latter allows higher-resolution photo and video capture in single and dual camera configurations.
In fact, the Snapdragon 7 Gen 3’s ISP steps down to 120 frames-per-second (fps) slo-mo video capture compared to the 1080p 240 fps video recording allowed by its direct predecessor. Overall, it seems like Qualcomm jumped into its parts bin and crafted a half-new midrange chip for Android phones.
Qualcomm says China’s Vivo and Honor are the first adopters of the Snapdragon 7 Gen 3. The first wave of phones powered by the new chip is expected to be announced later this month.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
