Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone By Christine Romero-Chan Close Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Believe it or not, Apple didn’t always have Siri. Siri originally belonged to SRI International, which created Siri, Inc. in 2007. Then in April 2010, Apple acquired Siri, which became a key component of the iPhone 4S that launched in 2011.
Smarter photo editing tools Make automated phone calls tolerable An improved Siri More intelligent communication and apps This is just the beginning Ever since then, Siri has continued to evolve at Apple, for better or for worse. While the point of Siri is to make your life easier with hands-free use of your iPhone or Apple Watch , it’s far from perfect. Siri often misunderstands you and results in hilarious requests, or is just incapable of doing what you need it to do, sometimes because of a poor connection.
But that may change in the future, as Apple seems to be investing “quite a bit” into generative AI , which is all the rage, according to comments made by Tim Cook during the company’s fourth fiscal quarter earnings call.
Apple is definitely lagging a bit in the current AI race, as Google is in the lead at the moment with the Google Pixel 8 lineup. But Apple already uses AI for some features on iOS, such as the Personal Voice Accessibility tool.
 Here are a few AI features I would love to see come to the iPhone one day.
Smarter photo editing tools Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends.
Ever since Google debuted the Magic Eraser tool with the Pixel 6 lineup, I’ve been kind of amazed by it.
 It’s the kind of functionality that I’ve always needed when editing photos. But on my iPhone and iPad, I have to use a third-party app with that function since the built-in editor in the Photos app lacks it.
If Apple is indeed investing in generative AI, then more photo editing tools need to be on the list. I would love to have the ability to simply erase unwanted objects and people from the background of my photos in the native Photos app. This is such a basic editing tool that it’s shocking Apple hasn’t already implemented it.
This year, Google even went a step further with AI photo editing tools and now has the Magic Editor and Best Take features. Magic Editor is like a souped-up version of Magic Eraser, and you can manipulate objects even more, such as moving them around in a different spot in an image. Best Take lets you swap faces from a series of similar photos so you can have the one “perfect” shot.
Though I don’t want to rely too heavily on AI , Apple needs to step up its photo editing game in the native Photos app.
Make automated phone calls tolerable Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends While I use a smartphone every day, there’s one thing I hate using it for: phone calls. I know; the irony, right? One of the features that Google made possible on Pixel phones thanks to its Tensor chips are all the AI-powered features when you make actual phone calls. These Pixel Call Assist features include Wait Times, Hold for Me, Direct My Call, Hold for Me, and Call Screen.
Wait Times works on automated calling systems and will give you an estimated time on how long you’ll be on hold based on the average length of calls with that business. There’s even an option to have Google Assistant wait on hold for you while you go about your day and not waste your precious time.
Direct My Call can show the call menu options right on your screen, making it easier to reach the department you need. Call Screen uses AI to ask callers to state their name and reason for calling, and calls can be declined automatically if it’s determined to be spam.
All of these are incredibly useful features, especially if you just don’t like dealing with phone calls in general. I hope if Apple is taking AI seriously, it can consider adding some AI features to make automated calling systems bearable.
An improved Siri Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Right now, Siri is the digital assistant on all of Apple’s hardware. However, it’s often easy to poke fun at it because it seems to hardly ever understand or do tasks properly. Personally, the only times I really use Siri are to set timers when cooking.
If Apple is going to take generative AI seriously, then it really needs to look into making Siri much better than what it is currently. One of the biggest pains with Siri is multi-language support. With iOS 17 , Apple has made bilingual Siri a thing, but only with English and select Indic languages: Hindi, Telugu, Punjabi, Kannada, and Marathi.
While that works for Indians, that’s still just one group. There are a lot of people who speak English with Spanish, or German, or French, or Italian, or … well, you get the idea. It’s currently frustrating if you don’t use one of the supported Indic languages since Siri will only be able to handle one language at a time. This results in mixed gibberish if it’s reading a message or saying a street name that isn’t in your primary language.
But multiple language support isn’t the only thing that Siri (mostly) fails at. Siri also has a hard time understanding those with speech and voice disorders, such as stuttering. Or it will put your reminder in the wrong list or simply tell you, “I cannot do that,” even though you did that exact thing a day ago.
Siri is a big hit or miss, depending on what you use it for. Compared to the competition, Siri is a bit embarrassing. Hopefully, if Apple is indeed investing in generative AI, then we can cross our fingers for a Siri that can actually do what it’s supposed to do and make our lives easier, not harder.
More intelligent communication and apps Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Another useful thing that AI could help out with is communication. In iOS 17 , Apple introduced a new keyboard that utilizes a transformer language learning model that learns from what you type in order to improve the accuracy of autocorrect.
The language learning model that Apple is currently using for making improved autocorrect could have even bigger uses. For example, it could help generate or predict message responses based on what you would typically send anyway. It could help improve Siri, too, as we already mentioned. And there’s even the possibility of AI-assisted features in native Apple apps, such as Pages and Keynote, or even auto-generated playlists in Apple Music.
This is just the beginning Apple iPhone 15 Plus (left) and Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Whether you love it or hate it, AI is here to stay, at least for the foreseeable future. Though AI could be potentially abused by bad actors, it also has the potential to be incredibly useful for the average person and make life easier. And when it feels like a lot of smartphone design and features have plateaued for the past few years, AI could be the next exciting thing.
Apple is already behind in the race for AI on mobile, with Google having a clear lead so far. But if Apple is taking the generative AI thing seriously, then there are a lot of fun possibilities in store for the future of iOS as a whole.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade The iPhone is getting out of control I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon No, you really don’t need the iPhone 15 Android Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Features Google Pixel Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Mobile As an avid Apple fan, I was surprised when I received the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 FE for review and found myself loving it. Could Samsung continue to impress me? That's what I wanted to find out when I received the Galaxy S23 FE. This "fan edition" smartphone, which we just ran through its paces in our Samsung Galaxy S23 FE review, offers many of the same features as the other Galaxy S23 models, but at a slightly lower price.
My handset of choice has always been the latest iPhone Pro. This usually means purchasing the Pro Max model, which I did again this year with the iPhone 15 Pro Max. I didn't expect the Galaxy S23 FE to match up to my new iPhone, as the Apple device is double the price and offers much better specs.
Mobile Apple’s latest iPhone update has addressed an irksome bug that caused Apple Pay and other NFC features on iPhone 15 handsets to stop working after charging the device using BMW’s in-car wireless chargers.
Yes, it’s a somewhat peculiar problem, and troublesome, too, especially considering that it could also affect the proper operation of the BMW’s digital car key. But the good news is that Apple’s release of iOS 17.1.1 on Tuesday finally resolves it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
