Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features The iPhone is getting out of control By Christine Romero-Chan Close Apple iPhone 14 Pro (left) and iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends When Apple launched the original iPhone in 2007, it was as easy as could be — it was just the iPhone.
 There was only one model, and when you said you wanted an iPhone, the sales rep would know which one you meant … because that was all there was.
The current iPhone lineup is too much Apple could take a lesson from Google Less is more Apple kept it simple for a few years until the iPhone 5s and 5c. That’s when it first started offering two iPhone variants: one labeled as more “affordable” (and unapologetically plastic) while the other was the “main” one. Then, starting with the iPhone 6, we had the small, “regular” size iPhone 6 and the larger iPhone 6 Plus.
This continued until the iPhone 11 lineup, which introduced a regular iPhone, a smaller “Pro” model, and a larger Pro Max. The iPhone 12 series added a fourth “mini” option, which continued to the iPhone 13 mini, but then Apple eliminated the mini size to bring back a “Plus” variant with the iPhone 14 and now the iPhone 15.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS What started out as a simple product lineup has evolved into something that feels unnecessarily complicated, especially when compared to competitors — and I think it’s time for a change.
The current iPhone lineup is too much Apple iPhone 15 Plus (left) and iPhone 14 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Ever since the iPhone 12, Apple has released four models of iPhones each Fall. Right now, with the current iPhone 15 lineup, we have the standard iPhone 15 , the larger iPhone 15 Plus , the small iPhone 15 Pro , and the larger iPhone 15 Pro Max.
 Apple got rid of the mini size after two years because it was deemed a flop, indicating that more people are interested in a larger non-Pro iPhone.
That may be true, but I can’t help but feel that the iPhone Plus is in a bit of an odd place — and it’s easily the first one I would get rid of. It sits in between the regular iPhone 15 and the iPhone 15 Plus cost-wise, and for just $100 more, you could jump into the iPhone 15 Pro line with more features.
Of course, the iPhone 15 Plus has a better battery than the standard iPhone 15, plus the larger 6.7-inch display versus the 6.1-inch display, but they’re otherwise the same. If you’re already going to be paying at least $900 for a large phone, you’re better off paying a little more with the iPhone 15 Pro Max, which has a better display, the new Action button, a more powerful A17 Pro chip, and the triple-lens camera system with the new 5x telephoto.
Apple could take a lesson from Google Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Google, like Apple, is on an annual release schedule as well and released the Pixel 8 lineup last month. However, unlike Apple, which has four choices, Google keeps it simple with just two: the standard Google Pixel 8 and the more powerful Google Pixel 8 Pro.
I wish Apple would simplify the iPhone lineup to something similar. Keep a smaller “regular” iPhone, and have one large Pro model.
Though I’m not a big fan of having a large smartphone, I think that there are too many choices at the moment. Furthermore, it’s annoying that Apple did not give the smaller iPhone 15 Pro the same 5x telephoto lens as the iPhone 15 Pro Max. If Apple had just offered a smaller standard iPhone and a larger Pro Max, then it would have simplified the options to choose from.
This is especially true when Apple is already leaving behind people who choose the smaller Pro models — just get rid of that one, and then everyone who wants a Pro model is on equal ground. Plus, at this point, with the standard iPhone 15 having a 48MP main camera and 12MP ultrawide camera, it still takes excellent photos if you don’t need a telephoto sensor.
Less is more Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Apple is one of the only major smartphone brands that releases four phones at once each year. Samsung is also up there with its Galaxy S smartphones, but it makes a bit more sense by offering three distinct sizes. With Apple, you get two sizes spread out across four different models — highly unnecessary.
I think Apple really should consider consolidating the iPhone lineup, as well as the iPads , while we’re at it. There are just too many options right now, and some of them don’t really make sense considering the price and features.
Less is often more, and I hope that’s a lesson Apple can learn from soon.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Features Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
