Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Google Pixel 8 Pro cases in 2023: 20 best ones By Jesse Hollington and Bryan M. Wolfe Close Google's 2023 flagship, the Google Pixel 8 Pro has landed — boasting a new third-generation Tensor G3 chip that promises to deliver even more sophisticated and powerful AI features like a new Magic Editor that will let you rearrange nearly everything in your photos, plus a new Night Sight for video. It's the phone to buy this year for fans of the pure Google Android experience.
The Pixel 8 Pro has improved its durability by featuring Corning’s Gorilla Glass Victus 2 on both its front screen and back glass. Moreover, the back glass is now frosted matte instead of being a glossy fingerprint magnet like its previous model. Although this upgrade gives you fewer reasons to put a case on your Pixel 8 Pro, it’s important to note that even Corning’s best glass is not entirely immune to scratches and scuffs. Therefore, getting a good case will not only help to protect your investment but also allow you to add your own personal touch. We have compiled a list of the best Pixel 8 Pro cases to safeguard your new phone right from the start.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More Amazon Spigen Tough Armor for Pixel 8 Pro The best kickstand Pixel 8 Pro case Solid protection in a slim case Built-in kickstand Raised edges for screen and camera protection Completely hides the Pixel 8 Pro's fun colors Spigen is a well-established brand in stylish smartphone protection, which makes its Tough Armor a top pick if you're looking for something that will handle the bumps and scrapes of life without adding too much bulk. After all, the Pixel 8 Pro is already something of a behemoth, so you don't want to add a case that will make it too unwieldy.
The Tough Armor case accomplishes this with a unique polycarbonate and TPU combo that uses its Air Cushion technology to focus impact protection on your phone's most vulnerable areas such as the corners and camera array, letting it keep the rest of the case as slim as possible. You also get a built-in kickstand to prop your Pixel 8 Pro up for watching movies, participating in video calls, or just hands-free reading, and a sound tunnel on the bottom edge to protect and amplify the speaker.
Amazon TUDIA MergeGrip for Pixel 8 Pro The best grippy Pixel 8 Pro case Textured anti-slip sides and back provide a great grip Compatible with MagSafe accessories Raised edges for screen and camera protection Style is a bit bland As the name suggests, Tudia's MergeGrip is designed to protect your Pixel 8 Pro by preventing you from dropping it in the first place. The case features a grippy textured material on the sides and the back that will ensure you keep a firm hold on your phone at all times so there's far less risk of it slipping out of your hand, which, let's face it, is the cause of most drop damage.
However, Tudia doesn't stop there. MergeGrip also offers solid dual-layer drop protection with a hard polycarbonate outer shell joined by and soft TPU inner layer to cushion against impacts. Raised edges around the screen and the camera bump offer additional protection, and this case even includes a MagSafe-compatible ring so you can use it with charging stands, mounts, and other accessories.
Amazon Otterbox Symmetry for Pixel 8 Pro The best rugged Pixel 8 Pro case Exceeds military drop protection standards Easy to pop on and off Trusted name in rugged cases Boring look Expensive Otterbox is easily one of the best-known names in smartphone protection, and the Symmetry is a minimalist case that still manages to offer protection that can help your Pixel 8 Pro survive three times as many drops as the normal military-standard rating without looking like you've encased your phone in tactical armor.
While it's far from the most stylish case on the market, the level of protection the Symmetry provides makes it worth considering if you're an outdoor adventure enthusiast or even just someone who fumbles with your phone a lot. It's also easily removed, so you can slap it on when you need it, and go caseless when you'd rather enjoy the lovely Bay blue of your Pixel 8 Pro.
Amazon Totallee Thin Case for Pixel 8 Pro The best thin Pixel 8 Pro case Extremely thin Good camera coverage Protects against scratches and scuffs Little to no drop protection Totallee boasts some of the thinnest smartphone cases on the market, making its Thin Case a great choice if your main priority is to keep the back of your Pixel 8 Pro scratch free but prefer to avoid bulking up an already bulky phone.
At only 0.02 inches (0.5mm) thick, Totallee's Thin Case adds almost no extra weight and will keep your Pixel 8 Pro as pocketable as a 6.7-inch smartphone can be. The camera array is also well-protected, with raised edges and cutouts that cover the bar while leaving the cameras, flashes, and other sensors exposed. Still, while Totallee's case will handle minor drops, we chalk that up more to the Pixel's Gorilla Glass Victus 2 than anything the case can add; this one is more about keeping scratches and smudges away than providing any additional impact protection.
Amazon Caseology Nano Pop for Pixel 8 Pro The best fun Pixel 8 Pro case Fun two-tone color design Solid drop protection Comfortable silicone feel Hides the Pixel 8 Pro's design Caseology's Nano Pop features a fun and playful design that looks especially great on the Pixel 8 Pro. By design, Google's Pixel phones have a very prominent camera bar that's part of their aesthetic statement, and Caseology embraces this with fun two-tone colors that give it a sporty look. Whether you opt for the bold and bright yellow/blue combo of the Blueberry Navy, the more muted and earthy Burgundy Bean, or the basic Black Sesame, there's little doubt that Nano Pop will add a unique and whimsical look to your Pixel 8 Pro.
Caseology isn't skimping on protection just to try and be fashionable. The Nano Pop's colors aren't merely window-dressing; they're part of its shock-resistant TPU material, which provide miliary-grade drop protection and a smooth silicone back that feels great in the hand.
Amazon Torro Leather Wallet Case for Pixel 8 Pro The best wallet Pixel 8 Pro case Made from stylish premium leather All-around protection with magnetic closure and shock absorption Can hold up to three cards and some cash Bulky Google Wallet is great, but it still hasn't entirely eliminated the need to carry around a few cards. In the very least, you'll likely need to tote a driver's license or other ID card, and maybe even a loyalty card or backup debit card. However, if you'd rather leave your separate wallet at home, then Torro's leather wallet case will give you the best of both worlds, plus all-around protection for your Pixel 8 Pro.
Made from luxurious premium cowhide leather, Torro's wallet case looks stylish and feels great in the hand, but it also holds your phone in a durable microfibre-lined TPU frame that protects it from drops and bumps. A leather strap with a magnetic stud mechanism also keeps the front closed, adding extra protection for the front screen. Inside, you'll find slots to hold three cards plus a larger compartment where you can tuck in a small amount of cash or stash your paper receipts.
Amazon Snakehive Vintage Leather Wallet for Google Pixel 8 Pro The best leather Pixel 8 Pro case Made from handcrafted leather Can hold up to three cards and some cash Available in several fun colors Bulky Snakehive's vintage leather wallet is a great way to add a bit of old-world charm to your modern Pixel 8 Pro. This folio wallet case is handcrafted using top-grain nubuck leather that will age nicely over time to develop a rich patina. Further, since each Snakehive case is handmade and hand-dyed using different cuts of leather, no two will have exactly the same appearance or feel.
However, there's more to this wallet than just looks; a durable pigskin leather interior and strong magnetic clasp to keep the front cover closed helps protect against drops and scratches. There's also room for three cards and a bit of cash inside, and a built-in stand function to prop your Pixel phone up in landscape mode to watch movies or participate in video calls. It's also available in a nice assortment of colors, from basic black and a traditional leather chestnut brown to navy, teal, plum, and bottle green, with finishes running from soft and suede-like to glossy and smooth.
Amazon AICase Clear Rugged Case for Pixel 8 Pro The best protective clear Pixel 8 Pro case Transparent case shows off your Pixel 8 Pro's style Provides solid drop protection Package includes a tempered glass screen protector Transparent bumpers add bulk at the sides Each year, Google releases is Pixel phones in an assortment of fun colors, and this year is no exception. The Bay Pixel 8 Pro is a very fetching blue, and the good news is that you don't need to hide it in a case just to get maximum protection. AICase's clear rugged case delivers a slim fit with military-grade drop protection and an entirely transparent design so your Pixel 8 Pro will shine through.
If that's not enough, the package also includes a tempered glass screen protector so keep the front of your Pixel 8 Pro free from smudges and scratches. The downside is that the transparent outer bumper does add a bit of bulk to the sides that's necessary for proper shock absorption, but if you think that design looks a bit odd, AICase sells other versions with black, navy, and gold pink bumpers instead to accent the color of the Pixel 8 Pro.
Amazon Foluu Silicone Case for Pixel 8 Pro The best budget Pixel 8 Pro case Offers a solid comfortable grip and feel Very affordable Lightweight Decent but basic protection Foluu's silicone case provides reasonably good protection for your Pixel 8 Pro in a bright and colorful package. Using liquid silicone rubber, this slim and lightweight case feels comfortable to hold while being grippy enough to keep your phone from slipping out of your hand or pocket. The inside is lined with a microfiber cushion and reinforced corners for impact and scratch protection, and raised edges protect the screen and cameras from drops and bumps.
While this isn't the most protective case on our list, it should deliver what most folks need for everyday use, and best of all, it's affordably priced and available in black, blue, light cyan, and purple.
Amazon Ringke Fusion Clear Bumper Case for Pixel 8 Pro The best clear Pixel 8 Pro case Transparent case lets the Pixel 8 Pro shine through Provides holes for attaching wrist straps or other accessories Good bumper protection Offers minimal drop protection Ringke's Fusion case is another solid pick for those who want to avoid hiding the natural elegance of their Pixel 8 Pro, with a fully transparent design that will protect against scratches, scuffs, and even the occasional short drop. A glossy version is also available for folks who'd like to replicate the less matte look of the Pixel 7 Pro. Lanyard holes also provide a place to attach a wrist strap or other accessories like phone charms.
The thin design is intended to replicate a "no-case" feel, but the downside is that this won't give you any meaningful level of impact protection beyond what the Pixel 8 Pro offers on its own. Still, the Pixel's Gorilla Glass Victus 2 should be enough to handle most everyday impacts, so the Ringke Fusion is more useful for keeping away any scratches or scuffs.
Amazon Otterbox Defender for Pixel 8 Pro The best heavy-duty Pixel 8 Pro case Unsurpassed drop protection Includes belt clip holster Excellent warranty Adds significant bulk to your phone Expensive Although the Pixel 8 Pro is quite durable on its own, if you live the kind of lifestyle that demands maximum protection for your smartphone, then the Otterbox Defender will be worth the extra bulk and heftier price tag. While it doesn't come cheap, that's because the Defender promises drop protection that's a staggering five times more than the military standard, plus a seven-year "lifetime" warranty on the case. Covers for all ports also keep out dust and dirt.
Still, at nearly seven inches tall and 3.5 inches wide, the Defender adds a half-an-inch to your Pixel 8 Pro in both directions, which could make it even more cumbersome and less pocketable. The good news is that Otterbox also includes a holster with a belt clip to help keep your phone secured to your body and easily accessible, and it can also be used as a kickstand for hands-free viewing.
More Amazon Ivoler Shockproof Case for Pixel 8 Pro The best value protective Pixel 8 Pro case Transparent back shows off the Pixel 8 Pro's color Offers solid military-grade drop protection Affordable Squarish design Ivoler's shockproof case delivers a nice balance of aesthetics and protection for your Pixel 8 Pro, with a transparent back portion that lets your Bay or Porcelain finish show through without compromising on coverage for the camera array. This case promises military-grade drop protection thanks to a shock-absorbing airbag and four-ply cushioning deisgn, while the outside has textured edges for a comfortable feel and a solid grip.
While the squared-off camera bump is a little jarring, the case features a slim design that should otherwise slide easily into a pocket. It's available in basic black as well as dark green and dark purple as nice accents for the Obsidian Pixel 8 Pro, or bold contrasts with its brighter colors.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Mous Case The best durable Pixel 8 Pro case Lots of style offerings Excellent protection provided Adds MagSafe to the Pixel 8 Pro Somewhat expensive The Mous case for the Pixel 8 Pro is available in a variety of styles and color combinations that provide AiroShock protection. This protection is specially designed to absorb and disperse energy to keep your phone safe from drops.
The case is made from premium materials such as black fabric reinforced with polycarbonate and features rippled ribs for improved grip. Despite its heavy-duty build, the case is not bulky and can easily fit in your pocket. Additionally, it supports magnetic charging thanks to MagSafe support built right into the case.
Crave Crave Dual Guard The best simple Pixel 8 Pro case Impressive color choices Dual protection Super price The Crave Dual Pixel 8 Pro case not only looks beautiful but also provides excellent protection. It comes in various colors and has easy-click side keys, dual-layer TPU/PC protection, and a compact design. The case is designed to provide better grip control and improved shock absorption. It also allows easy access to ports and is compatible with wireless charging.
Caseology Caseology Parallax 3D Ergonomic Design The best ergonomic Pixel 8 Pro case Unique design Lightweight Good price Design not for everyone This Caseology case has a 3D Hexagon Cube Design that offers enhanced ergonomics and comes with a built-in textured TPU grip on both sides. It also features raised bezels around the screen and camera, providing additional protection. The case is military-grade and compatible with wireless charging. Additionally, it is available in various colors.
RMOCR RMOCR Full Body Heavy Duty Case The best accessories Pixel 8 Pro case Lots of extras included Low, low price Nice color options Perhaps too bulky for some Check out this amazing budget-friendly case for your Google Pixel 8 Pro! It comes with several accessories to enhance your experience such as a lanyard strap, a high-definition tempered glass screen protector and a camera lens protector. The case has a non-slip design which ensures a great grip and also offers military-grade protection.
Bellroy Bellroy Leather Case The best premium leather Pixel 8 Pro case Traditional design Chic and practical Pricey Not a leather wallet Bellroy and Google have joined forces to create a leather case that is as stylish as it is functional. The case boasts a slim profile that is both chic and practical. Made with premium leather, the case is soft to the touch and offers a seamless edge-to-edge design. The microfiber lining adds an extra layer of protection to your device, ensuring it stays safe and secure. The case is available in four sophisticated colors: Terracotta, Black, Simply Taupe, and Slate Blue.
Carveit Carveit Wood Case The best wood Pixel 8 Pro case It's wood! Excellent price Amazing number of designs Maybe too unique If you believe that all smartphone cases are identical, it may be worthwhile to consider this wooden phone case from Carveit. The case is available in different styles and showcases natural wood material with a high-quality soft TPU backing that is both aesthetically pleasing and protective. Additionally, the case is compatible with traditional Qi wireless chargers.
Miss Arts Miss Arts for Google Pixel 8 Pro Case The best bling Pixel 8 Pro case Bedazzled look Excellent price Includes a strap Certainly not understated Are you tired of boring and uninspiring phone cases? Do you want to add a touch of luxury and style to your Pixel 8 Pro without breaking the bank? If so, this is the perfect choice for you.
It features a golden electroplated lining that encircles the bumper and camera, giving your phone a touch of elegance and sophistication. The diamond ring-style stand is another great feature of this Pixel 8 Pro case, allowing you to easily rotate your phone 360° horizontally and 180° vertically. Whether you're watching a video, taking a selfie, or browsing the web, this stand makes it easy to find the perfect angle.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Spigen Ultra Hybrid The best see-through Pixel 8 Pro case Great price Excellent protection Allows the Pixel 8 Pro's design to shine Too Plain Jane? This clear phone case is made using a combination of PC and TPU materials, providing excellent durability while allowing the phone's design to shine through. Thanks to the Air Cushion Technology, it offers military-grade drop protection, while the raised edges protect the screen and camera. The case features a blue resin infusion that maintains its clarity over time, ensuring your phone looks as good as new.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy The best iPhone 15 cases in 2023: our 16 favorites The best Google Pixel 8 cases in 2023: 15 best ones you can buy Google Pixel Tablet just got a big price cut for Prime Day Android Best Products Google Google Pixel Mobile If you've been planning to upgrade your Android smartphone, there may be no better choice among the available phone deals right now than the upcoming Google Pixel 8 Pro. Preorders have started for Google's latest flagship smartphone, and if you go to Amazon for the 128GB model at $999, the 256GB model at $1,059, or the 512GB model at $1,179, you'll receive the also newly-announced Google Pixel Watch 2, valued at $350, absolutely free. The offer will remain online until Oct. 16, which is beyond the Google Pixel 8 Pro's launch on Oct. 12, but it's highly recommended that you complete the transaction as soon as you can, while supplies last.
Why you should buy the Google Pixel 8 Pro The Google Pixel 8 Pro is powered by the new Google Tensor G3 chip, which promises even faster performance while enabling Google AI, and it features a 6.7-inch Super Actua display with an intelligent refresh rate of up to 120Hz. The smartphone also features a 50MP main camera with 2x optical quality, a 48MP telephoto camera with 5x optical zoom and Super Res Zoom of up to 30x, and a 48MP ultrawide camera at the back, plus a 10.5 MP Dual PD selfie camera at the front. The Google Pixel 8 Pro's adaptive battery can last more than 24 hours on a single charge, and up to 72 hours when you activate Extreme Battery Saver mode.
Mobile If you're not bothered about having the brand new Google Pixel 8, we've got the right Google Pixel deals for you. Over at Backmarket, you can buy the Google Pixel 7 for just $365 if you don't mind a refurbished but good-condition model. Alternatively, you can pay a little extra and get an excellent condition one for $399. In both cases, the phone has been through a rigorous testing process, comes with a one-year warranty and there's a free 30-day return policy if you're not entirely happy with the phone. Check out all we know about the Google Pixel 7 to see if it's the one for you.
Why you should buy the Google Pixel 7 The Google Pixel 7 is a phone that's hard to resist. It looks pretty good with a glossy finish on the glass back and a matte gray camera module. A smooth aluminum chassis and glossy Gorilla Glass Victus rear panel can make it a little slippery but it certainly looks good.
Mobile While the Google Pixel 7 Pro isn't among the best Android phones, it's a close-run thing with the phone offering a lot to love. If you're keen to buy one, you'll want to save as much as possible along the way. That's why we've taken a look at all the latest Google Pixel 7 Pro deals going on right now across many different retailers. Whether you want to buy outright or commit to a new contract, there's going to be the deal for you here. Keep reading while we take you through all your options.
Google Pixel 7 Pro deals at Amazon Only the 128GB variety of the Google Pixel 7 Pro is on sale at Amazon. At the moment, you can buy it for $800 so you save $99 off the regular price of $899. It's a nice and straightforward deal for anyone keen to buy the phone outright without it being tied to a contract.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
