Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I’ve had the Google Pixel 8 Pro for a month. Here’s why I’m keeping it By Joe Maring Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends I’ll come out and say it right now: The Google Pixel 8 Pro is an outstanding smartphone. Actually, I’ll do you one better. It’s easily the best Pixel phone Google has ever released. Hell — the Pixel 8 Pro just may be my favorite Android phone of 2023.
Everything I still love about the Pixel 8 Pro Bugs? What bugs? The Pixel 8 Pro’s two ongoing issues This is the Google phone I’ve been waiting for I gave the Pixel 8 Pro a lot of praise in my review of the phone this past October. I went so far as to call it the “best Pixel I’ve ever used.” A bold claim, for sure. But is all of that still true after using the Pixel 8 Pro for well over a month? Is it still the Pixel phone I’ve been waiting for, or has my usual bad luck with Pixel bugs tarnished my experience? Everything I still love about the Pixel 8 Pro Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Pixel 8 Pro’s design really impressed me in my review, and that hasn’t changed one bit after weeks of daily use. A lot of this boils down to the more rounded design this year, which was 100% the right call on Google’s part. Even with all the design improvements Apple made to the iPhone 15 Pro Max this year, I find myself reaching for the Pixel 8 Pro over it, partly because of just how good Google’s in-hand feel is. And, yes, that Bay blue color is still one of the best I’ve seen on a smartphone this year.
The only negative I have to say at this point is that the stainless steel frame surrounding the camera sensors has already picked up a lot of small scratches — something I also noticed on the Pixel 7 Pro last year. They’re only visible in certain lighting, and they appear to be purely cosmetic, but I certainly wouldn’t complain if Google ditched stainless steel next year for something like titanium instead.
I also need to give major props to the Pixel 8 Pro’s camera setup. Google’s Pixel phones are well-known for having excellent cameras, but that hasn’t stopped the Pixel 8 Pro from being any less impressive here. The above gallery shows just a handful of some of my favorite shots I’ve gotten over the month.
And it’s not just still photos where the Pixel 8 Pro impresses. Although I don’t usually take a lot of video on my smartphone, I’ve been making an effort to do so on the Pixel 8 Pro. And whenever I do, I’m thrilled with the results I get. From the buttery smooth stabilization, gorgeous colors, and crisp details, the Pixel 8 Pro takes exceptional-looking video. Take a look for yourself with the clip above.
I’ve taken the Pixel 8 Pro to dimly-lit concert halls, pumpkin patches, nature trails — you name it. No matter the setting and no matter what I want to take a picture of, the Pixel 8 Pro produces incredible results. It’s been so good, in fact, that I decided to move my cloud photo library from Apple Photos to Google Photos so I can keep using the Pixel 8 Pro as my main camera of choice. It really is that good.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends And it doesn’t stop with the design and cameras. The 6.7-inch OLED display on the Pixel 8 Pro has been absolutely lovely. Its colors are vibrant and punchy, the 120Hz refresh rate is as smooth as can be, and the every-so-slightly curved edges feel fantastic when you’re swiping and scrolling on it. Furthermore, Android 14 on the Pixel 8 Pro has been so much fun to use. The lock screen customization tools are great, the entire UI is quick and snappy, and even stranger additions like the AI wallpaper generator are nice touches.
I could go on and on. The in-screen fingerprint sensor is reliable, having Face Unlock work for logging into applications has been amazing, the buttons feel excellent and clicky, and the speakers sound great — you get the point.
Google got so much right with the Pixel 8 Pro, and everything that I loved when I first took the phone out of the box has continued to impress a month later.
Bugs? What bugs? Joe Maring / Digital Trends I also had a lot of nice things to say about the Google Pixel 7 Pro last year, but my experience with that phone was ultimately ruined by software bugs and performance issues. The Pixel 8 Pro was smooth sailing after using it for about a week before I published my review — but how is it holding up after a very busy month? To my absolute surprise, it’s been fantastic. I haven’t encountered any crashing apps, no weird UI effects with YouTube, and no bizarre formatting that breaks my Quick Settings — all things that plagued my Pixel 7 Pro last year.
 I had one instance where the always-on display randomly stopped working, but disabling and re-enabling it in the Settings app immediately fixed it, and it’s been operating flawlessly since.
I’ve also been continuously impressed by Google’s Tensor G3 chip.
 The previous two generations of Tensor chips in the Pixel 7 and Pixel 6 handsets were … not good. They were notorious for overheating, had very poor power efficiency, and were generally just not reliable for daily use.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Although the Tensor G3 chip isn’t the most powerful mobile chipset available today, it’s been a tremendous upgrade over Google’s previous attempts. My Pixel 8 Pro has been very fast and responsive, whether I’m playing back-to-back matches of Marvel Snap or multitasking across a handful of different apps. And even with heavier use, the phone stays much cooler than previous Pixels. I have been able to get it to warm up a few times during particularly long gaming sessions, but I’d expect that from any modern smartphone.
Is this to say the Pixel 8 Pro won’t suddenly develop new, unexpected issues over the coming weeks and months ahead? Absolutely not.
Pixels are notorious for getting worse over time , and I’ll be keeping a close eye on the Pixel 8 Pro to see if that happens. But it’s been virtually flawless so far, and that’s not something I can say about the previous two generations of Google’s phones.
The Pixel 8 Pro’s two ongoing issues Joe Maring / Digital Trends For the most part, the Google Pixel 8 Pro’s first month has been off to a phenomenal start. But there are two issues with the phone that continue to be a nuisance.
The first is battery life. I complained about this in my Pixel 8 Pro review, and it continues to be a problem today. I wouldn’t say the Pixel 8 Pro’s battery life is outright “bad” or “terrible,” but it’s also a noticeable step down compared to other Android phones available.
As I found in my review, I’m still getting a full day with the Google Pixel 8 Pro without having to worry about charging it before bed. I’ve had some days where I could stretch it to a little under a day and a half, but it never goes beyond that. Plus, doing so only happened when I used the Pixel 8 Pro sparingly throughout the day. Other phones from earlier this year — like the Motorola Edge Plus and OnePlus 11 — easily deliver two days of use per charge without having to closely monitor how much you use them. The Pixel 8 Pro has a fine battery, but it very clearly isn’t on the same level as some of its competitors.
The other issue is charging. The Pixel 8 Pro is slow when it comes to charging. Going from zero to 100% always takes around an hour and a half, and while that’s fine if you just charge the phone overnight while you sleep, it’s not ideal if you need to charge as quickly as possible in a short amount of time. This is another area where companies like Motorola and OnePlus have taken a significant lead over Google, and it remains disappointing that the Pixel 8 Pro is lagging here.
This is the Google phone I’ve been waiting for Joe Maring / Digital Trends My month with the Pixel 8 Pro so far has been a night and day difference compared to my time with the Pixel 7 Pro. Last year’s Google flagship was buggy, inconsistent, and just not a phone I wanted to keep using once my review was published. With the Pixel 8 Pro, I’m dreading the day when I have to take my SIM out of it and pop it into a new phone I need to review.
Am I still anxious about the phone suddenly deteriorating into an unusable mess? A little bit. Google’s Pixel phones haven’t been kind to me over the last couple of years, and I’m weary to forget about that any time soon. But the Pixel 8 Pro is so exceptionally good that that anxiety is growing less and less with each day.
The Google Pixel 8 Pro still has a lot to prove over the coming year, but if things keep going the way they have over the past month, I have a feeling this will be the Android phone that remains in my pocket throughout much of 2024.
Editors' Recommendations I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new This one Google Pixel 8 Pro feature is driving me crazy I just spent $100 on Google Photos for a ridiculous reason Google Pixel 8 Pro users are finding weird ways to use the phone Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile I have a not-so-surprising confession: I tend to want every new phone that comes out. I'm a sucker for good marketing, and smartphone launches have some of the best marketing around. Whether it's a new feature like a telephoto lens, a bigger battery, a more vivid display, or a radically new form factor, I get a bad case of fear of missing out almost every time. It's why I often find myself buying the most expensive model, despite not really needing to.
So, I was slightly confused when the recent launch of the Google Pixel 8 Pro didn't leave me feeling like I wanted the phone at all. Or rather, I did, but the desire was undercut by another emotion: annoyance. I'm mad at the Pixel 8 Pro, but it's not for the reasons you might think.
Mobile Google released the next generation of Pixel devices recently, including the Google Pixel 8 and Google Pixel 8 Pro. These have been the best Pixel smartphones in a while, as they pack the improved Tensor G3 chip inside, better cameras, brighter displays, and more — all in a slightly updated design. I've been using the phones for a couple of weeks now, and I really like what Google's done with them.
But Google also added some more photo editing capabilities to the Pixel 8 lineup, with a heavy reliance on AI with the Tensor G3 chip. While these AI-heavy editing tools can help you chase perfection, they shouldn’t be relied on too heavily or abused.
The Pixel 8's AI tools are impressive ...
Magic Editor on the Google Pixel 8 Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends.
Mobile Two of the brightest smartphone displays on the market are featured on the Google Pixel 8 Pro and the OnePlus Open. However, in the ever-changing world of technology, there is always something better on the horizon.
On Tuesday, October 24, Chinese-based OnePlus and its parent company, Oppo, will announce "a new dawn" for smartphone screens. According to messages posted on Weibo by OnePlus and Digital Chat Station, the announcement is that BOE will manufacture a 3,000-nit panel for smartphones, which could be a game changer for the smartphone market. The soon-to-be-revealed display will offer 1440p resolution and support 2160Hz pulse width modulation (PWM) dimming.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
