Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Google Pixel 8: don’t buy the wrong Pixel By Mark Jansen Close Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends As is usual for Google these days, details about the newest Pixels were spoiled well before the Made By Google announcement event.
 But that hasn’t dampened our enthusiasm one bit, as the Google Pixel 8 and Google Pixel 8 Pro are easily the two most advanced and desirable phones Google has ever created. The Pixel 8 range introduces the Google Tensor G3 processor, a variable 120Hz refresh rate for both phones, and the option for 1TB of storage on the Pro model.
Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: specs Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: design, display, and durability Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: performance, battery life, and charging Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: cameras Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: software and updates Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: special features Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: price and availability Overall winner: Google Pixel 8 Pro These two Pixels are the top smartphones you can buy from Google, but it’s clear just from the names that there’s a gulf between them. That the “Pro” model is the more advanced and expensive of the two isn’t going to surprise anyone, but there’s a question here: Is it worth spending more on the Pixel 8 Pro, or does the Pixel 8 offer everything you need in a much cheaper package? We put the two of them head-to-head to find out.
Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: specs Google Pixel 8 Pro Google Pixel 8 Size 162.6 x 76.5 x 8.8mm (6.4 x 3 x 0.3 inches) 150.5 x 70.8 x 8.9mm (5.9 x 2.8 x 0.4 inches) Weight 213 grams (7.5 ounces) 187 grams (6.6 ounces) Screen size 6.7-inch Super Actua OLED display with 1-120Hz refresh rate 6.2-inch Actua OLED with 60-120Hz refresh rate Screen resolution 2992 x 1344 pixels (489 pixels per inch) 2400 x 1080 pixels (428 ppi) Operating system Android 14 Android 14 Storage 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB 128GB, 256GB MicroSD card slot No No Processor Google Tensor G3 Google Tensor G3 RAM 12GB 8GB Camera Triple lens 50-megapixel wide, 48MP ultrawide, and 48MP telephoto rear, 10.5MP front Dual lens 50MP wide, 12MP ultrawide rear. 10.5MP front Video 4K at up to 60 frames per second, 1080p at 60 fps 4K at up to 60 fps, 1080p at 60 fps Bluetooth version Bluetooth 5.3 Bluetooth 5.3 Ports USB-C USB-C Fingerprint sensor Yes, in-display Yes, in-display Water resistance IP68 IP68 Battery 5,050mAh 30W wired charging 23W wireless charging Reverse wireless charging 4,575mAh 27W wired charging 18W wireless charging Reverse wireless charging App marketplace Google Play Store Google Play Store Network support Most major carriers Most major carriers Colors Bay, Porcelain, Obsidian Hazel, Rose, Obsidian Price Starting at $999 Starting at $699 Buy from Google Google Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: design, display, and durability Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Google hasn’t changed the design up much with the Pixel 8 range, and whether that’s a good thing or not will depend largely on how you feel about the Google Pixel 7 ‘s design. The dimensions are slightly different, but aside from that, you’re looking at the same rounded corners, glass-over-metal build, and camera visor. It’s a unique look and certainly not boring, which is something Google has struggled with in past Pixel phones. The two smartphones in question are largely the same, albeit with the Pro being distinctly larger than the standard Pixel 8. The Pixel 8 Pro is also quite weighty, tipping the scales at over 200 grams. But really, that’s expected with a phone this large.
There are more differences when we look at the displays. Both sport variable 120Hz refresh rates , meaning the refresh rate changes speed depending on what it’s doing. So, if you’re playing a game, it’ll ratchet up the highest refresh rate, but if you’re looking at images, it’ll drop down to conserve power. The difference here is the Pro’s display has a broader range of possible rates and drops all the way to 1Hz. The Pixel 8, by comparison, only drops down to 60Hz. Both are brighter than the previous generation and while the Pro has a higher potential brightness, it’s unlikely to be a clinching difference between these two phones.
Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends What about durability? Both are likely to be similarly tough, though the Pixel 8 Pro uses Gorilla Glass Victus 2 rather than the first edition of Victus the Pixel 8 uses. Will that make a massive difference? Probably not.
Both have an IP68 rating for dust and water resistance so that they can resist water ingress from short dips in clear water. Don’t take them swimming, though.
While these two phones share a lot of similarities, the Pixel 8 Pro’s better display helps it take this category.
Winner: Google Pixel 8 Pro Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: performance, battery life, and charging Google These two phones feature the public debut of Google’s new processor, the Tensor G3.
 Representing the third generation of Google chips, the Tensor G3 offers upgrades across the board — including to the CPU and GPU — and finally fixes those temperature issues we’ve previously seen with the Tensor range. It’s an excellent processor, easily the best Google has ever made, and provides a strong and smooth experience. Both phones use this chip, so it’s largely a tie here.
Not so when it comes to storage, though. The Pixel 8 starts at 128GB, with the option to upgrade to 256GB. The Pixel 8 Pro has these options and then some extra, with 512GB and 1TB variants also available. We’re not sure why Google couldn’t have pushed the Pixel 8 to a 512GB option, too, as it’s somewhat left out in the cold. However, even 256GB is going to be plenty of space for most buyers, so it’s not that big of an issue.
Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends The Pixel 8 Pro has the larger battery size of the two models here, so does it come out on top in battery tests? Not really. Despite the 5,050mAh cell, it barely squeaked out a day of usage during our review period, usually ending at 10.30 p.m. with between 15% to 5%. That’s a far cry from the two-day battery lives we’ve seen on other Android phones this year. That’s certainly not the case with the Pixel 8, which easily managed to make it through the first day and deep into the second, too. It’s a big difference, and it means the Pixel 8 scores big.
Charging is a slight advantage for the Pro model, but it’s so slight we’re not sure why Google bothered to include it. What’s the difference between the Pixel 8 Pro’s 30-watt charging and the Pixel 8’s 27W? Not that much, so why bother making the difference in the first place? The Pixel 8’s slightly smaller battery cell means the two devices end up charging back to full in about the same amount of time, anyway.
The performance is entirely even, which means it comes down to the battery life — and in an upset, the Google Pixel 8 takes the round.
Winner: Google Pixel 8 Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: cameras Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends The cameras are another area where the Pixel 8 Pro has an immediate edge, as it comes with a lens the Pixel 8 simply doesn’t get: a 48-megapixel telephoto camera with a periscope zoom of 5x. It’s clear the Pixel 8 Pro has a big advantage, but the Pixel 8 still has a lot going for it. It has the same 50MP main lens, with a digitally corrected 8x digital zoom and an 82-degree field of view. That lens takes incredible shots, as you might expect. It’s joined by a 12MP ultrawide lens, the same lens we saw in the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro , and though this lens is a bit of a disappointment, it’s not enough to drag the Pixel 8 down.
Unfortunately, it’s up against an upgraded system in the Pixel 8 Pro. Not only does it have the aforementioned telephoto lens, but it also has a much better 48MP ultrawide lens. Each of the Pixel 8 Pro’s three lenses takes exceptional pictures in its own right, and when put together into the Pixel 8 Pro, you end up with an incredible camera package.
Don’t get us wrong, the Google Pixel 8 has a very good camera system indeed, but it can’t match the cutting-edge camera tech in the Pixel 8 Pro.
Winner: Google Pixel 8 Pro Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: software and updates Joe Maring / Digital Trends Finally, the Google Pixel 8 Pro finds itself in a category where it doesn’t have an upper hand. Both of these phones come with Android 14 , and it’s one of the purest Android experiences you can have, especially on a flagship smartphone. There are some additions just for the Pixel, but outside of that, it’s Android at close to its purest. As such, it’s swift to respond, doesn’t have any bloatware (outside of carrier additions), and is generally a joy to use.
There are further gems to be found here, too, in the form of a groundbreaking commitment to updates. Google has promised to keep the Pixel 8 range updated for an incredible seven years of operating system updates. Yes, buy this at launch, and you won’t run out of major Android upgrades until 2030. It’s an incredible promise, and both Pixel 8 models get this.
There’s little to separate these two here. It’s a tie.
Winner: Tie Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: special features Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Google has gone big on special features this year, and they’re all based around AI and machine learning.
Magic Eraser , the big release last year, has been significantly upgraded and can change the lighting of your final image. That’s combined with the new Best Take feature, which can blend elements from a series of photographs to create one final image. So, if one person’s face looks better in a different shot, your Pixel can move it over to your chosen image and slot it in. Think AI-powered Photoshop, and you’re really not wrong.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Pixel 8 Pro has only one main advantage over the Pixel 8, and that’s a new Pro (aka manual) mode in the camera app to fine-tune things like your aperture, white balance, and other professional settings. Oh, and the Pro has a temperature sensor, too, but it doesn’t seem useful for much, so it’s easy enough to ignore.
A number of existing features have also been improved. The spam filter works better than ever, Gboard now has spellcheck and proofreading abilities, and the Google Assistant can translate websites and then read them aloud while sounding more natural than before.
There’s a lot here, but importantly, almost all of it is shared across both phones. This is a tie.
Winner: Tie Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Pixel 8: price and availability Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends The Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro are both available now. The Pixel 8 starts from $699, $100 more than the Pixel 7. The Pixel 8 Pro follows the same trend, increasing the MSRP over the Pro model by $100 to $999.
The Google Pixel 8 Pro comes in Bay (light blue), Porcelain (beige), and Obsidian (black) colors. The Pixel 8 comes in Hazel (gray), Rose (orange-pink), and Obsidian (once again, black).
Overall winner: Google Pixel 8 Pro Joe Maring / Digital Trends It was always going to be difficult for the standard Google Pixel 8 to beat its larger, more advanced sibling, and it’s not a poor reflection on the cheaper smartphone to have lost this bout. The Google Pixel 8 Pro is definitely the winner here, thanks to a stronger display, extra camera features, and extra storage options. If you take price out of the equation, then it’s clear why the Google Pixel 8 Pro wins.
But we don’t tend to ignore price, and the price differences here are significant. There’s a hefty $300 difference between these two devices, and that’s a very important factor to consider. We know the $300 gets you a better display and camera, but you’ll need to pay quite a lot more to get access to the higher storage tiers. That leaves us with the display and camera. The stronger display gives you a brighter, more detailed screen and the ability to dip to lower refresh rates. The camera gets you the periscope zoom and an ultrawide lens with more megapixels. Are all those worth $300? That’s a personal question for sure, but the Pixel 8 still offers a lot of what makes the Pro model so good. It has the powerful Google Tensor G3 processor, a 120Hz refresh rate, one of the best smartphone cameras around, and a two-day battery life — which means the Pixel 8 isn’t a lesser option in a lot of ways. If you’re happy to live without the extras the Pro offers and love saving a bit of money, then the Pixel 8 is an absolute bargain. Is money no object? Then it’s the Pixel 8 Pro every day.
Editors' Recommendations Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro just had their prices slashed I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy These are the 6 biggest Google Pixel 8 problems (and how to fix them) Google Pixel Watch 2 vs. Google Pixel Watch: should you upgrade? Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 UItra: don’t buy the wrong one Android Google Google Pixel Versus Mobile Google has started seeding a new software update for its Pixel phones, which also happens to be the first one for its latest Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro models The update notes don’t mention the arrival of any new features, but the update does fix crucial problems that users have been complaining about in online forums for months and apply to the Pixel 8 series as well as its predecessors.
At the top of the list is a solution for display- and graphics-related woes, including the problem of “a green flash when the display is turning off in certain conditions.” Google’s post mentions a specific scenario where the green screen issue appears, but users have been reporting it for a while.
Moreover, the “green goblin for Pixels” manifests itself in various ways. One user shared an image of the Pixel 8 Pro on Reddit with a vertical green line running across the screen. Others mention random screen flashing or a permanent tint on the panels, both partial and full-screen. The reports date back at least a couple of years and seem to affect phones as old as the Pixel 6 series.
Previous Mobile Google's 2023 flagship, the Google Pixel 8 Pro has landed — boasting a new third-generation Tensor G3 chip that promises to deliver even more sophisticated and powerful AI features like a new Magic Editor that will let you rearrange nearly everything in your photos, plus a new Night Sight for video. It's the phone to buy this year for fans of the pure Google Android experience.
The Pixel 8 Pro has improved its durability by featuring Corning’s Gorilla Glass Victus 2 on both its front screen and back glass. Moreover, the back glass is now frosted matte instead of being a glossy fingerprint magnet like its previous model. Although this upgrade gives you fewer reasons to put a case on your Pixel 8 Pro, it’s important to note that even Corning’s best glass is not entirely immune to scratches and scuffs. Therefore, getting a good case will not only help to protect your investment but also allow you to add your own personal touch. We have compiled a list of the best Pixel 8 Pro cases to safeguard your new phone right from the start.
Mobile Every fall, there’s lots of pumpkin spice, spooks, and flagship phones from Google and Apple. This year, Google released the powerful Google Pixel 8 Pro, while Apple upped the ante with the iPhone 15 Pro.
While the Google Pixel 8 Pro is more comparable to the iPhone 15 Pro Max, we wanted to see how it would do against the smaller iPhone 15 Pro as well. After all, the regular iPhone 15 Pro is still considered a flagship, and both phones share the same $999 price tag.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
