Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Galaxy S23 vs Galaxy S23 Plus Galaxy S23 vs Galaxy S23 Ultra Galaxy S23 vs Pixel 7 Galaxy S23 vs iPhone 14 Galaxy S23 Ultra vs Galaxy S22 Ultra Galaxy S23 Ultra vs iPhone 14 Pro Max Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 UItra: don’t buy the wrong one By Nadeem Sarwar and Mark Jansen Close Digital Trends The Google Pixel 8 Pro is the last of 2023’s top smartphones to arrive. It’s big, bold, and comes packed with camera tricks to take on Samsung and Apple’s best. But if you are averse to Apple’s ecosystem, the only direct rival to Google’s latest flagship is the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra.
Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: specs Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: design and display Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: performance and battery Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: cameras Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: software and special features Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: price and availability Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: verdict Both product lines have a reputation for having one of the most powerful camera phones , with Samsung banking more on hardware supremacy while Google leads with software processing. If you’re trying to find the best pound-for-pound flagship between the two, here’s a detailed comparison to help make your choice easier.
Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: specs Google Pixel 8 Pro Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Size 150.5 x 70.8 x 8.9 mm 78.1 x 163.4 x 8.9 mm Weight 187 grams 234 grams Screen size 6.7-inch Super Actua LTPO OLED Gorilla Glass Victus 2 shield Up to 2,400 nits peak brightness Smooth Display (1–120Hz) refresh rate 6.8-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X 120Hz adaptive refresh rate 240Hz Touch Sampling Rate 1750 nits peak brightness Gorilla Glass Victus 2 shield Screen resolution 1344 x 2992 pixels 3088 x 1440 pixels (Quad HD+) Operating system Android 14 Android 13 (One UI 5.1) Storage 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB 256GB, 512GB, 1TB MicroSD card slot No No Tap-to-pay services Google Pay Google Pay, Samsung Pay Processor Google Tensor G3 Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 RAM 12GB 8GB, 12GB Camera 50-megapixel primary (F1.68, FOV 82°) 48-megapixel ultrawide (F1.95, FOV 125.5°) 48-megapixel 5x optical telephoto (F2.8, FOV 21.8°) 10.5-megapixel (F2.2, FOV 95°) 200-megapixel primary (F1.7, FOV 85˚) 12-megapixel ultrawide (F2.2, FOV 120˚) 10-megapixel 3x telephoto (F2.4, FOV 36˚) 10-megapixel 10x telephoto (F4.9, FOV 11˚) 12-megapixel front camera (F2.2, FOV 80˚) Bluetooth 5.3 5.3 Ports USB-C USB-C Fingerprint sensor In-display fingerprint sensor In-display fingerprint sensor Water resistance IP68 dust and water resistance IP68 dust and water resistance Battery 5,050 mAh 30W wired fast charging Up to 50% charge in about 30 minutes Fast wireless charging Battery Share 5,000mAh 45W Adapter fast charging Up to 65% charge in around 30 minutes Wireless charging Wireless Power Share App marketplace Google Play Store Google Play Store, Samsung Galaxy Store Network support 5G, LTE Wi-Fi 6E (802.11ax, 2.4GHz+5GHz+6GHz) GPS, GLONASS, Galileo, QZSS, BeiDou, NavIC Ultra Wideband Google Cast 5G, LTE Wi-Fi 6E (802.11 a/b/g/n/ac/ax 2.4G+5GHz+6GHz) Wi-Fi Direct GPS, Glonass, Beidou, Galileo, QZSS Ultra Wideband Colors Obsidian Porcelain Bay Green Phantom Black Lavender Cream Lime Sky Blue Graphite Red Price Starts at $999 Starts at $1,199 Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: design and display Google Pixel 8 Pro Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The Pixel 8 Pro and Galaxy S23 Ultra take fundamentally different approaches to design. Samsung goes for a boxy look with flat sides and sharp edges, while Google’s phone has rounded sides with a bulging frame for a more comfortable grip. The weight difference is also massive, as the Pixel 8 Pro is over 22% lighter than the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
Aluminum and Gorilla Glass Victus protect both phones, which have builds that are IP68-certified. Each device offers a large OLED display with a 120Hz refresh rate and dynamic adjustment tech, but the Pixel 8 Pro’s screen is brighter and goes all the way up to 2,400 nits.
In day-to-day life, however, those numerical figures won’t make much of a difference as the Galaxy S23 Ultra’s screen is also sufficiently bright, and content legibility is not a problem even under broad daylight. But one area where the Samsung flagship leaps far ahead is stylus support.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Galaxy S23 Ultra supports stylus input and comes with the S Pen that slots right inside the phone’s chassis. This stylus is not merely a gimmick, though. It supports a wide array of Air Gestures and comes with a ton of customization and shortcut tricks.
If you know your way around the Good Lock modules , the S Pen will truly elevate your smartphone experience to an altogether different level of convenience and immersion. It also helps that the Galaxy S23 Ultra is the only mainstream flagship phone out there with stylus support.
The Pixel 8 Pro has some technical advantages with its display, but the S23 Ultra’s S Pen is also a great addition. We’re chalking this one up as a tie.
Winner: Tie Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: performance and battery Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Samsung has equipped the Galaxy S23 Ultra with a slightly overclocked trim of the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip that is exclusive to this particular phone. The chip is paired with 12GB of RAM and up to 1TB of storage without any scope for further expansion. The S23 Ultra is also equipped with a larger vapor chamber cooling system for improved heat dissipation, and it actually does a great job.
Google’s flagship chip, though not especially advertised as coming with heat dissipation, has seen dramatic improvements in cooling with the Tensor G3.
 However, it’s not going to be up to the standard of the S23 Ultra. But in terms of raw performance, you won’t find either phone lagging.
What you get inside the Pixel 8 Pro is a custom-designed Tensor G3 processor ticking alongside 12GB of RAM and up to 1TB of storage. Google has also fitted dedicated AI and security chips inside the phone, but just like Samsung, it has skipped microSD card expansion.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends There isn’t much difference when it comes to the battery capacity, as both phones have a 5,000mAh battery. However, the Galaxy S23 Ultra takes the crown here. Not only does it sport a two-day battery life, but it supports up to 45-watt wired charging. The Pixel 8 Pro tops out at 30W and sometimes struggles to make it a single day without needing a recharge.
Wireless charging support is also part of the package for both phones, as is reverse wireless power sharing. The latter means you can simply keep any other phone or earbuds case on the Pixel 8 Pro Galaxy S23 Ultra’s rear panel and it will share power.
Google has improved in a lot of areas, but Samsung takes the win pretty convincingly here.
Winner: Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: cameras Joe Maring / Digital Trends Google’s top-tier offering leads with a 50-megapixel optically stabilized main camera. It is assisted by a 48MP telephoto camera with 5x optical zoom output and a 48MP ultrawide snapper. Selfie duties fall to a 10.5MP sensor with autofocus. As has become customary with Pixel phones, the images taken are nothing short of exceptional, and this time around, all three lenses output still photos of a similar quality.
But can Samsung overcome Google with the massive 200MP main camera on the Galaxy S23 Ultra? This allows the phone to perform multiple layers of pixel binning to output images in smaller formats. There are also a couple of 10MP telephoto cameras, with one delivering a 3x optical zoom range while the other one banks on a periscope system to offer 10x optical zoom. Put together, it’s an amazing camera, and it’s the periscope zoom lens that’s seen the largest improvement by far. Oversaturation can still sometimes be a problem, but Samsung is clearly improving on this front.
Ultrawide capture is handled by a 12MP snapper, and the front camera also relies on a 12MP camera. The Galaxy S23 Ultra allows 8K capture and can do slow-motion videos at up to 960 frames per second (fps), while the Pixel 8 Pro maxes out at 4K 60 fps capture, with slo-mo is limited 240 fps.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Pixel 8 Pro, however, serves up some impressive AI-powered goodies such as Magic Eraser for removing unwanted objects from the frame, Face Unblur to fix photos post-capture, Macro Focus to take close-up shots, Astrophotography mode for long-exposure night sky capture, and Magic Audio Eraser to remove noise from videos.
This time around, Google is also adding some new tricks like Night Sight for video capture and Best Take for group photos, where multiple frames are combined to deliver the most pleasing stills.
Samsung’s Galaxy S23 Ultra offers its own unique set of camera features, such as simultaneous video capture from each camera, a stunning 100x zoom range for stills, 360-degree audio capture, and mic zoom-in to follow the camera view. Just like the Pixel 8 Pro, it also supports Night Mode for video (from front and rear cameras), as well as portrait capture.
This is a very tough category to judge, as both phones are exceptional. The Pixel 8 Pro creates images with a more realistic tone, but the S23 Ultra’s vibrant shots may appeal to some. Samsung clearly has an edge in zoom photography, but Google’s post-processing and AI-powered editing are unmatched by anyone else. This is very much a tie.
Winner: Tie Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: software and special features Joe Maring / Digital Trends Software is where the two phones sit on almost opposite ends of the spectrum. Google serves a vanilla flavor of Android on the Pixel 8 Pro with a ton of exclusive features. The Google Assistant experience is the best you’ll come across, with more tricks arriving at a regular cadence via Pixel feature drop updates.
This year, Google is adding multilingual assistant voice typing into the mix alongside more natural conversations, improved call-screening capability, better noise isolation for calls, and more. Google is also extending the Face Unlock convenience to payments and app sign-ins. Hardware-wise, there’s also a new temperature sensor, which, admittedly, has limited usefulness.
Samsung, on the other hand, is currently seeding out the Android 14-based One UI 6 to the Galaxy S23 Ultra. The Android skin on Samsung phones is a bit divisive. On the bad side, it is cluttered with a healthy dose of bloatware and ads.
Andy Boxall / DigitalTrends But on the positive side, it offers a set of exclusive features that set the Galaxy S23 Ultra apart from every phone out there. For example, Edge Panels and the S Pen wheel offer more shortcuts and tools at your disposal than you would find on any other device.
The scope for aesthetic customization is deep, while Samsung Good Lock modules offer a level of UI control that you simply won’t find on any smartphone out there.
This year, however, Google is making a dramatic leap at boosting the longevity of Pixel phones. Google says the Pixel 8 Pro will get seven years of Android OS upgrades and security updates, as well as feature drops for an equal number of years. Samsung is only promising four OS upgrades and five years of security updates on the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
Although the usefulness of each phone’s software features largely comes down to personal preference, there’s no denying that everyone should benefit from Google’s impressive software support. It’s the first of its kind in the Android space, and it’s something we hope to see more of in the future.
Winner: Google Pixel 8 Pro Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: price and availability Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Google Pixel 8 Pro starts at $999 and comes with 128GB of storage. If you need more room, 256GB, 512GB, and 1TB models are also available. It is fully available for purchase and comes in a trio of colors: Bay, Obsidian, and Porcelain.
Samsung, on the other hand, is charging a minimum of $1,199 for the Galaxy S23 Ultra with 256GB of internal storage. That’s a healthy $200 gulf and enough to buy a good pair of wireless earbuds or even a previous-generation smartwatch. Color options on the table are Green, Phantom Black, Lavender, Cream, Lime, Sky Blue, Graphite, and Red. But do keep in mind that a bunch of these are exclusive to the Samsung store.
Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: verdict Joe Maring / Digital Trends Picking between these two phones is fairly straightforward. If you’re chasing the best Android experience, with unbeatable support, reliable cameras, a standout design, and the most rewarding Android experience out there, the Google Pixel 8 Pro is where you should put your money. And if you’re after the most advanced AI wizardry available on a phone today, the Pixel should be your default choice.
But if you’re looking for an Android phone that offers camera perks like 10x optical zoom, tons of pro-grade video and photo capture gimmicks, and the versatility of an excellent stylus, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra should be your pick. It comes at a 20% premium over the Pixel 8 Pro, but if you’re invested in Samsung’s ecosystem and appreciate the flexibility of One UI, this is the most feature-loaded phone you can possibly get.
Editors' Recommendations I’ve had the Google Pixel 8 Pro for a month. Here’s why I’m keeping it The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Google Pixel 8: don’t buy the wrong Pixel The best Google Pixel 8 Pro cases in 2023: 20 best ones Designed to rival the iPad Pro, Samsung’s best tablet is $150 off Android Google Google Pixel Samsung Versus Mobile The Google Pixel 8 Pro is a fine phone at $999. It’s got a great display, a good design, a bunch of AI features, and thr promise of updates over a long period of time.
I’ve been using the phone since launch and am getting accustomed to the new Google Photos features like Best Take and the improved Magic Eraser. I like the fact that I can get a great group photo without worrying if someone’s eyes are closed or isn’t ready for the photo. But the experience of using these features isn't what I was expecting.
It’s all about the experience Mobile Google unveiled the Google Pixel 8 lineup at its October Made by Google event in New York. Though there aren’t any drastic upgrades to the Pixel 8, Google made some smaller changes that are sure to be welcome among fans.
But Apple also released the iPhone 15 lineup in September — and it's one of the Pixel 8's biggest competitors. If you’re in the market for a new smartphone, which one should you pick up? The Pixel 8 and iPhone 15 are both the baseline models for Google and Apple, respectively, so let’s take a closer look at these two phones.
Mobile Finding a bad Android phone is a rare occurrence these days. However, with so many options available, it can be daunting to choose the best one in 2023. In this article, we aim to help you find the answer to this question.
When looking to buy a new Android phone, there are many factors to consider. Do you prefer a large screen? How important is camera performance to you? Are you someone who enjoys gaming on your phone? Or do you need a long-lasting battery life? To assist you, we have compiled a list of Android phones that cater to everyone's needs, regardless of your preferences or priorities.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
