Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Can an Android phone replace my iPhone? I found out By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends As an avid Apple fan, I was surprised when I received the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 FE for review and found myself loving it. Could Samsung continue to impress me? That’s what I wanted to find out when I received the Galaxy S23 FE. This “fan edition” smartphone, which we just ran through its paces in our Samsung Galaxy S23 FE review , offers many of the same features as the other Galaxy S23 models, but at a slightly lower price.
What I love about this Android phone Where Samsung could improve An Apple fanboy’s verdict My handset of choice has always been the latest iPhone Pro. This usually means purchasing the Pro Max model, which I did again this year with the iPhone 15 Pro Max.
 I didn’t expect the Galaxy S23 FE to match up to my new iPhone, as the Apple device is double the price and offers much better specs.
However, I was interested in knowing whether the S23 FE had just enough features where I wouldn’t have a problem doing everyday tasks on it like checking email, making phone calls, surfing the web, watching a few videos, etc. How did the S23 FE hold up? Pretty well, although there’s one important thing that held it back for me.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone is getting out of control This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected What I love about this Android phone Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends Samsung has a history of releasing “fan edition” products like smartphones. While some of these products have been well-received, others have not. The Galaxy S20 FE , for example, received high praise in 2020, including being called the “phone to beat for under $700” by Digital Trends. However, when the Galaxy S21 FE 5G was launched, it received less favorable reviews — with our reviewer noting that “the sequel is never as good.” The S21 FE 5G’s poor reception may have convinced Samsung not to release an S22 FE. Nevertheless, skipping to the S23 FE seems to have been worth it, as the handset boasts many excellent features.
The first thing you’ll notice about the Galaxy S23 FE is its impressive 6.4-inch Dynamic 2X AMOLED display with a peak refresh rate of 120Hz. The S23 FE’s display delivers vibrant and crisp visuals and the colors pop. The Galaxy S23 FE’s display is larger than the one found on the 6.1-inch Galaxy S23 and smaller than the one on the 6.6-inch Galaxy S23 Plus.
The iPhone Pro series has also included a 120Hz refresh rate for many years. Unfortunately, the same can’t be said for regular iPhones. Like their predecessors, the iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus are stuck at 60Hz. So yes, call this Apple user impressed.
Call this Apple user impressed.
I have always admired the wide range of color options available on Android devices, especially those manufactured by Samsung. Unlike Apple, which usually offers conservative color choices for its iPhones, Samsung consistently provides more vibrant and appealing options.
Digital Trends The Galaxy S23 FE, for instance, comes in some really excellent color choices. Apart from the usual graphite and cream, you can also purchase the phone in mint, purple (the color of my review unit), and exclusively through Samsung.com, tangerine and indigo. Sure, like most people, you probably slap a case on your new smartphone as soon as you make the purchase. Regardless, it’s nice to know there’s something unique inside! Just look at the S23 FE in purple; impressive, no? Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends This brings us to the S23 FE’s chip. It includes a Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chip in the U.S, compared to the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip found on the other S23 models. (An Exynos 2200 chip is featured on the S23 FE in other regions.) Samsung’s decision to go with the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 versus the Gen 2 on the S23 FE will undoubtedly turn some heads since the latter is vastly superior.
 It’s probably one area where the company shouldn’t have cut corners, primarily since the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 has been known to heat up with overuse.
During my usage of the Galaxy S23 FE, I did not encounter any significant issues with performance when doing everyday tasks. It seamlessly handled duties such as checking emails, sending text messages, opening multiple tabs on Google Chrome, watching videos on YouTube, and playing basic games downloaded from Google Play.
Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends Looking at the cameras found on the S23 FE, it’s worth noting that the phone features a triple camera setup on the back, as is typical for Samsung phones. That includes a 50MP main camera, a 12MP ultrawide camera, and an 8MP telephoto camera. On the front, there is a 10MP fixed-focus camera. I didn’t spend much time taking photos with my review unit, as I knew our reviewer would be doing that. My focus was on seeing what Samsung was offering at this price point.
When comparing the S23 FE’s camera specs to those of the iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus , it’s worth noting that the S23 FE’s specs are slightly better. The iPhone 15 and 15 Plus feature a dual-camera system with a 48MP main camera, a 12MP ultra-wide camera, and a front-facing 12MP TrueDepth camera.
Puzzlingly, Samsung decided not to add autofocusing capabilities like the ones found on more expensive phones — and also on the iPhones.
Where Samsung could improve Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends I have no significant complaints about the Samsung Galaxy S23 FE, but some areas gave me pause.
First, the bezels are slightly thicker compared to other S23 models. The device features an older version of Gorilla Glass protection, meaning the display might be less protected over time.
However, Samsung’s decision to use the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 on this model may be the most significant drawback. This chip is almost two generations old, and while I didn’t experience any performance issues doing everyday tasks, it is worth reiterating that this chip has been known to generate excessive heat in overtaxing situations. If you plan on using your phone for a lot of 4K video watching and more than casual gaming, look elsewhere.
An Apple fanboy’s verdict Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends There’s much I like about the S23 FE, starting with its bright display, unique color choices, and mostly good camera specs. I was also happy with the phone’s build quality. However, I would probably get annoyed by its older chipset with longer-term use. And then there’s the operating system.
I have been using iPhones for an eternity and have become accustomed to iOS. On the other hand, Android, regardless of the version, doesn’t appeal to me. It’s much more challenging to use, lacks the same level of enjoyment, and the Google Play Store feels much more like the Wild West. Android is reason enough why I would never consider switching from the iPhone, even though I recognize the appeal for many who choose Android over iOS.
Here’s my bottom line: If you’re currently using an Android phone and planning to upgrade, I recommend considering the S23 FE. Although it lacks some of the fancy features present in other S23 models, it includes all the essential functionalities and comes at a lower price point, which makes it a great deal. It won’t change you’re mind about Android if you’re an iPhone loyalist like myself, but for everyone else, it’s a decent pickup.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Android Apple Apple iPhone Features Google Samsung Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile Android 14 is out now, and as usual, the first to get it is Google's own Pixel phone family. Samsung has already released the One UI 6 update based on Android 14 for its latest flagship phones and continues to test for older devices, while Nothing is still in the beta-testing phase.
If you're rocking an Android phone that is still stuck on an old Android build, here's everything that we know about official Android 14 rollout plans for all major brands available in the U.S. market.
Google Pixel phones Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
