Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News When is my phone getting Android 14? Here’s everything we know By Christine Romero-Chan , Jesse Hollington and Nadeem Sarwar Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends Android 14 is out now, and as usual, the first to get it is Google’s own Pixel phone family. Samsung has already released the One UI 6 update based on Android 14 for its latest flagship phones and continues to test for older devices, while Nothing is still in the beta-testing phase.
Google Pixel phones Samsung phones OnePlus phones Nothing phones Motorola phones If you’re rocking an Android phone that is still stuck on an old Android build, here’s everything that we know about official Android 14 rollout plans for all major brands available in the U.S. market.
Google Pixel phones Joe Maring / Digital Trends Google’s Pixel devices were the first to get the Android 14 beta, so naturally, they were also among the first for the general release. However, while Android 13 could be installed on devices going all the way back to the Pixel 4, Google has decided to cut off some of the older Pixel devices with Android 14.
All of the following Google Pixel devices have received the Android 14 update: Pixel 4a (5G) Pixel 5 and Pixel 5a Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro Pixel 6a Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro Pixel 7a Pixel Fold Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro In case you haven’t automatically received Android 14 via the stable update route from the Settings app, you can flash the system images using the Android Flash Tool. Details about the file package and the necessary instructions are available in the Android Developers guide.
Samsung phones Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Samsung was one of the first smartphone brands to start beta testing Android 14 on its phones, starting with its latest trio of flagship phones — including the Galaxy S23 , Galaxy S23 Plus , and Galaxy S23 Ultra.
 At the moment, the stable Android 14 update for the Galaxy S23 trio is rolling out in multiple countries.
Like Google, Samsung provides several years of support for its flagship phones, which means previous-gen flagships and foldable phones should safely be on the update roadmap for the next few years. But Samsung has more than just the Galaxy S-Series of phones in its repertoire.
There’s the Galaxy Z Fold and Flip lineup, the more affordable A-Series phones, and others. In its recent OneUI 6 announcement post, Samsung mentioned the following devices as part of its Android 14 vision: Galaxy S23 series, Galaxy S22 series, Galaxy S21 series, Galaxy Z Fold5, Galaxy Z Flip5, Galaxy Z Fold4, Galaxy Z Flip4, Galaxy Z Fold3, Galaxy Z Flip3, Galaxy A54, Galaxy A53, Galaxy A34, Galaxy A33, Galaxy M54, Galaxy M53, Galaxy M34, and Galaxy M33.
Moreover, based on the OS update commitment the company has made for different Galaxy smartphone line-ups, here’s the entire list of phones that should get a taste of Android 14 down the road: Samsung flagship phones Samsung mid-range phones Samsung tablets Galaxy S23 Galaxy S23 Plus Galaxy S23 Ultra Galaxy S22 Galaxy S22 Plus Galaxy S22 Ultra Galaxy S21 Galaxy S21 Plus Galaxy S21 Ultra Galaxy Z Fold 4 Galaxy Z Flip 4 Galaxy Z Fold 3 Galaxy Z Flip 3 Galaxy A73 Galaxy A72 Galaxy A54 Galaxy A53 Galaxy A52 Galaxy A34 Galaxy A33 Galaxy A24 Galaxy A23 Galaxy A14 Galaxy A13 Galaxy A04s Galaxy M54 Galaxy M53 5G Galaxy M33 5G Galaxy M23 Galaxy F54 Galaxy F23 Galaxy F14 5G Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Samsung Galaxy Tab S8+ Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Samsung Galaxy Tab S9+ Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 FE Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 FE+ Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 series We have reached out to Samsung for more details about the rollout schedule of the stable Android 14-based One UI 6 update for their Galaxy phones and tablets and will accordingly refresh this guide.
OnePlus phones OnePlus 10 Pro (left) and OnePlus 11 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Similar to Google and Samsung, OnePlus phones have software upgrade support for four years. However, in OnePlus’ case, that rule only applies to the most recent release OnePlus 11.
 At the moment, a stable rollout hasn’t started yet, as OnePlus is still beta-testing the Android 14-based experience.
According to a OnePlus Community post , the OnePlus 11 will get the stable OxygenOS 14 update in mid-November, followed by other devices. In addition to the OnePlus, OnePlus has planned the beta release of OxygenOS 14 in two phases for a healthy bunch of phones, which means they will certainly be updated to the stable version. Here is the complete list: October Phase: OnePlus Pad OnePlus Nord 3 5G OnePlus 11R OnePlus 10 Pro OnePlus 10T November Phase OnePlus 10R OnePlus 9 Pro, OnePlus 9, OnePlus 9R, OnePlus 9RT OnePlus 8T OnePlus Nord CE 3, OnePlus Nord CE 3 Lite OnePlus Nord N30 OnePlus Nord 2T OnePlus Nord CE 2 Lite Older OnePlus smartphones — like the OnePlus 8 , OnePlus 8 Pro , etc. are promised three years of software updates. So, they are likely getting the update at some point in 2024. Those models aren’t being included in OnePlus’ Android 14 beta, however.
Nothing phones Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Android 14 is already under testing on the Nothing Phone 1 and Nothing Phone 2 as part of the closed-beta testing. However, Nothing has not confirmed when the stable Nothing OS 2.5 update will start rolling out. Digital Trends has reached out to Nothing for more clarity and will update this story accordingly.
It shouldn’t take Nothing too long to release its stable Android 14 update, considering the software similarities Nothing OS shares with “stock” Android, but we’ll just have to wait and see.
Motorola phones Motorola Razr Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends So far, Motorola hasn’t said anything about its plans to release Android 14. However, given the past trajectory of Android 13 updates, you can most of the mid-rangers and yesteryear flagships to get it at some point in 2024.
We checked the official Lenovo Community Forum for the Android 14 update scenario and only came across boilerplate responses like this : “We do not have any details yet about Android 14.
And this: “We have not made any announcements yet regarding Android 14 updates. Even after we announce our plans for which phones will be updated, we won’t be able to share any timelines for when it will be updated.” So far, the only device that is confirmed to be a part of active Android 14 development under the Lenovo / Motorola label is the Lenovo Tab Extreme. However, based on update promises made by Motorola for its recent devices, the following smartphones are most likely to get the Android 14 update, in no particular order: Motorola Razr 40 Ultra Motorola Razr 40 Motorola Edge 40 Pro Motorola Edge 40 Motorola Edge+ (2023) Motorola Edge 30 Ultra Motorola Edge 30 Pro Motorola Edge 30 Neo Motorola Edge 30 Fusion Motorola Edge 30 Motorola Moto X40 Motorola Moto X30 Pro Motorola Moto S30 Pro Motorola Moto G Stylus 5G (2023) Motorola Moto G (2023) Motorola Moto G84 Motorola Moto G73 Editors' Recommendations Can an Android phone replace my iPhone? I found out Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free Samsung just did something strange to its newest Android phone I’ve been using Android 14 for months. Here’s why you’re going to love it Samsung just announced another new phone (and two Android tablets) Android Google Google Pixel OnePlus Samsung Tech News Mobile Android 14 is in the final stages of development, and its first stable version is set to release later this month. As a result, Android phone brands are starting to unleash previews of their upcoming software upgrades based on the Android 14 beta, allowing select users to try out forthcoming features before other people. After Samsung opened up One UI 6 beta for a limited number of devices earlier this month, OnePlus is giving us a peek at its upcoming OxygenOS 14 beta based on Android 14.
OnePlus' custom Android skin, OxygenOS, received a major overhaul last year after merging the codebase with the ColorOS interface offered by its parent company, Oppo. Our worst fears came true when OxygenOS 13, based on Android 13, was released last year. It received a radical design overhaul that most OnePlus purists deemed a downgrade that made it nearly indistinguishable from Oppo's ColorOS.
Mobile Did you just spend three or even four figures on a new smartphone? You'll probably be wanting to keep it pristine and safe from damage, and the best way to ensure that is with a good protective case. However, not every case is created equal. While you can pick up a generic gel case from anywhere for a few bucks, if you want real protection, you're better off looking at some of the best case brands for a more expensive, but much more reliable smartphone case.
Phone cases aren't just about protection, though. The best phone cases offer protection, sure, but they also boast stylish designs, kickstands, or even backpacks or wallets to hold credit cards or cash. But where should you be looking for your new case? We've got the lowdown on the best phone case brands out there right now, so you can zero in on the right case for you.
Caseology Mobile “Android tablets are a lost cause.” I come across this recurring theme more often than I would like, but there’s some truth to it. As someone who pushes Android tablets as a daily workhorse, I’ve defended on numerous occasions how the ecosystem has matured over the past few years after Android 12L and foldable arrived on the scene.
But compared to the iPad, Android tablets keep falling short. With every brand trying to create its own unique software flavor for tablets that vary dramatically in terms of firepower, no two Android tablets seem to offer a uniform experience. iPads, on the other hand, do deliver experience uniformity irrespective of the screen size.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
