Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS By Christine Romero-Chan Close Greg Mombert / Digital Trends I’ve been using an iPhone ever since 2008, starting with the original and then every generation since. For several years, the iPhone was only capable of SMS texting, with MMS support arriving with iOS 3 in 2009.
The green bubble of shame What is RCS, exactly? It’s time for Apple’s iMessage to open up But in 2011, Apple created something new: iMessage. It first arrived on iOS and then went to the Mac in 2012 to replace iChat. iMessage is basically an instant messaging service that is exclusive to all Apple products: iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, and Mac. You can send text, images and video, documents, rich preview links, stickers, and more between one another. You can also see if a message is delivered, send read receipts (if you want), and everything is encrypted. With iOS 16, you can even edit and unsend messages within a certain time frame.
iMessage is also used for sending text messages and multimedia messages to non-iMessage users — aka Android phones.
 However, much of the iMessage functionality you get with other iMessage users is impossible since the SMS/MMS protocol is older. But Android phones have moved over to rich communication services (RCS) for messages, and Google has repeatedly tried to shame and push Apple to open up iMessage to support it. Its latest efforts include getting regulators involved.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone is getting out of control This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected Though it feels like it’s only Google and Android fans pushing for Apple to support RCS , as a diehard iPhone user, I honestly would love to see RCS come to iPhone. Let me explain why.
The green bubble of shame Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I consider myself a bit of an introvert, and sometimes I just find group chats exhausting. I’m not constantly juggling multiple group chats on my iPhone 15 Pro , but I do have some group chats with my immediate family. My mom and brother use iPhones, but my sister uses an Android phone. So, in our group chats, she’s the outlier with the green bubbles.
With an iMessage-only group chat, you’re able to leave if you’re just tired of the endless notifications and conversations. I often get overwhelmed by the back-and-forth between my siblings, and I really wish I could just take myself out of the chat. But since my sister uses an Android phone, I am unable to do that. I have permanently muted notifications on that group conversation because I don’t want to be bombarded daily.
Another annoying aspect I have to deal with due to my sister not using an iPhone is the fact that I can’t send long videos to everyone in a group chat. I take a lot of photos and videos of my daughter to share with family, and most times, I just want to send them through iMessage. But if I do that with a group chat with my sister, it will end up compressed and pixelated to the point where it’s pretty much unwatchable. It’s the same when she sends videos of her dogs. To avoid this hassle, I just ended up using one of those apps where multiple people can upload and view photos and videos instead when I want to share my daughter’s antics.
These may just be minor inconveniences, but it really makes me wish Apple would just get on board with RCS.
What is RCS, exactly? Google There’s a lot of history and context behind RCS and how it is (slowly) growing to become the standard replacement for SMS. With Google’s efforts with carriers to adopt RCS, the result is “Chat,” which is a protocol based on the RCS Universal Profile. This is the global standard for implementing RCS on different carriers and countries that would let everyone communicate with each other.
Chat is available on two apps: Google’s Messages and Samsung Messages. Though that sounds limiting, most Android phones come with Google’s Messages app pre-installed. It’s basically like iMessage, where you can send messages and high-resolution photos and videos to each other. It also supports typing status, read receipts, delivery status, tapbacks, and more. For those worried about security, Google has enabled end-to-end encryption for RCS messages, giving it an advantage over SMS.
It may not offer all of the features that Apple currently has for iMessage, such as editing and unsending messages , but it has been evolving over time — just at a slower pace.
It’s time for Apple’s iMessage to open up Joe Maring / Digital Trends Though Google has made numerous attempts to push Apple towards adopting RCS, Apple has continued to just leave Google on “read” status. Apple feels that most of its customer base doesn’t care about RCS, and while that may be true, there are some of us who actually do care and want to see RCS adopted in iMessage.
Personally, the biggest reason I want RCS adoption is so that I can send high-resolution photos and videos in my group chats without having to rely on another app or service. I also like knowing that my messages were actually delivered or that I am getting a response. It would also be great if I could just leave a group chat if I wanted to rather than be forced to stay in that chat like I am now.
RCS, despite its slow growth and adoption as the SMS replacement, has a lot of potential. I think it would be amazing to have implemented in iMessage, even if it was just the ability to send high-res media. Why am I still seeing pixelated videos in 2023? Why is texting still so complicated? I wouldn’t have to keep asking these questions if Apple would just swallow its pride and stop being so stingy with iMessage.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Features iMessage Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Mobile Apple launched the iPhone 15 lineup recently, which includes the iPhone 15, iPhone 15 Plus, iPhone 15 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max. Of course, while the new series appears to be a hit with most, it’s not without its own set of issues too.
Despite the fact that the iPhone 15 has only been out for a few weeks, the rumor mill for the iPhone 16 has already begun, though it’s still quite early. But from what we’ve gathered so far, it looks like the iPhone 16 could be another worthy upgrade, especially if you haven’t picked up an iPhone 15 already.
More buttons and a haptic transition Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
