Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides Will my phone change for daylight saving time automatically? By Christine Romero-Chan , Joe Maring and Bryan M. Wolfe Close Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s that time of the year again. On Sunday, November 5, at 2:00 a.m., the majority of people in the U.S. will revert to standard time by setting their clocks behind by an hour. This also means that you get an extra hour of sleep. However, it raises an important question: will your phone automatically change to standard time, or do you need to do it manually? How to update your iPhone when daylight saving ends How to update your Android phone when daylight saving ends Other daylight-saving phone tips It’s a question that applies regardless of which phone you have. Whether you’re rocking an iPhone 15 Pro , a Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra , or any other smartphone , it’s important to know whether or not you need to change it for the new time.
Before the advent of smart devices, we used to manually change the clocks to adjust for either daylight saving time or standard time. However, some clocks like wall clocks, oven clocks, and some car clocks are still non-internet-connected and require manual adjustment.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon These 5 iPhone 15 problems are annoying. Here’s how to fix them If your smartphone’s software is up to date, its clock should automatically adjust.
 But if you had previously customized the date or time settings, you might have to update your clock manually to ensure it’s DST-ready.
How to update your iPhone when daylight saving ends First, let’s look at how to update the time for standard time on the iPhone. If you have an iPhone, like the iPhone 15 , go to the Settings app , select General , then Date & Time, and toggle on Set Automatically.
Once that’s done, your iPhone time will automatically update — no extra work from you is required! When daylight saving ends and we go back to standard time, your iPhone should do so without skipping a beat.
How to update your Android phone when daylight saving ends Digital Trends The process for Android is mostly the same, though it follows a slightly different process. On an Android phone like the Google Pixel 8 , go to Settings > System >Date & Time, and toggle on Set Automatically.
Digital Trends On a Samsung phone, like the Samsung Galaxy S23 , you’ll need to follow a slightly different path. Go to Settings > General Management > Date and Time , and make sure Automatic Date and Time is turned on.
With these settings configured, your Android phone is prepped and ready to automatically change the time once daylight saving time is over.
Other daylight-saving phone tips Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Although the above steps should be all you need to worry about, there are some other things you can do to be extra sure your phone changes when it should for standard time.
If you haven’t updated your phone in a while, it’s worth checking to make sure it’s running the latest available software. On an iPhone, open the Settings app, tap General , and then Software Update.
If you have an Android phone, go to the Settings app, scroll down the page, and tap on Software update or System update (the wording will be slightly different depending on which Android phone you have).
Outdated software shouldn’t impact your phone automatically changing for standard time, but it certainly doesn’t hurt to install an update if one is available.
If you have any alarms set on your phone, they’ll also automatically update to the new standard time without any extra work required from you.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app iPhone update fixes troublesome bug that broke NFC features for some users Lapse app: what you need to know about the new Instagram killer The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones Android Apple Apple iPhone Google Mobile iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends How do you flex the camera chops of your flagship phone? Use it to shoot the entire launch event for flagship laptops. Or that’s apparently what Apple thinks. The company’s Scary Fast event last night was shot on an iPhone 15 Pro Max, and it’s quite a solid statement to rest the fate of a product reveal that brings in billions of dollars for Apple each quarter.
Mobile "Fitness" can mean a lot of things. For some people, it's being able to run far, or run fast. For others, it's being able to lift heavy things and lower them back down again. Others may simply want to keep trim, or eat healthily. It may even mean getting a great night's sleep, or making sure your mental wellness is at its best. Whatever fitness means for you, we have a list of apps that cover all the possible bases. These apps excel in a number of different areas, but what they all generally have in common is that they use your iPhone's powerful tech to monitor and analyze your performance. As a result, they can help you progress along your fitness journey.
These apps are great at keeping you fit, but they're always best when paired with other tech, so make sure to check out our lists of the best fitness trackers and the best running headphones. Here are the best fitness apps for the iPhone in 2023.
Apple Fitness Mobile Choosing the best phone in 2023 can be quite challenging as there are so many excellent options available. Whether you are an iPhone fan, an Android user, or open to any smartphone, finding the perfect one for you may seem like a daunting task. But don't worry, we're here to help! Below, we have compiled a list of our top picks for the best phones you can currently buy. We believe that there's something for everyone on this list, and we're confident that you'll find a phone that suits your preferences perfectly.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
