Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features iPadOS 17 just made my favorite iPad feature even better By Nadeem Sarwar Close Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends With iPadOS 17 , Apple promised a refined Stage Manager experience. So, as soon as the first public beta was released, I rushed to my iPad Pro to check whether Apple’s claims made at WWDC 2023 had any merit to them. Well, Apple delivered with Stage Manager on iPadOS 17 — and to a large extent.
Stage Manager is finally flexing There are still some UI bugs A rewarding experience, or closest to one One of my biggest gripes with Stage Manager was that it wasn’t flexible. Apple wanted to ape a core multitasking feature from macOS, but the implementation left a lot to be desired. Digital Trends Editor Joe Maring wrote an extensive (and lukewarm) take on how Stage Manager didn’t live up to its promises.
I, on the other hand, didn’t abandon the cause of Stage Manager. A part of that hope was driven by the fact that Stage Manager would get fixed in the months following iPadOS 16’s public release. That didn’t happen. But the main reason that I kept bumping into Stage Manager each day was because I use a tablet as my primary computing machine.
4 AI features I want in my next iPhone The USB-C Apple Pencil fixes an iPad problem I’ve had for years My iPhone just blew me away — and it’s not the new iPhone 15 Pro I alternate between an iPad Pro and whatever Android tablet I can get my hands on. I usually stick with One UI on Samsung tablets because it is the most feature-rich and fleshed-out iteration of a tablet-friendly Android skin out there, so my test bed has usually been the Galaxy Tab S8 series machines. What I loved about the Galaxy Tab S8 was the extensive level of control that it offers when it comes to app window management and a true desktop-like experience.
So, on iPadOS 17, is Stage Manager finally ready to shine? Stage Manager is finally flexing Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends In iPadOS 17, Stage Manager has atoned for a lot of its functional sins. Let’s start with the most crucial upgrade. You can now freely adjust the size of an app window. Well, for the most part. Take a look at the picture above.
I created a cluster of four apps — let’s call it a stage for the sake of simplicity. You can now have four apps visible simultaneously on the screen. Yes, it does look cluttered. But you can at least do that.
Moreover, depending on your app preference and how it scales to different aspect ratios, it just might work. My work usually involves four apps — Google Docs, Chrome, Asana, and Microsoft Teams — that should be in my view at all times. With a little bit of window resizing and getting rid of the dock, I got a working combination for my 11-inch iPad Pro. If you have a 12.9-inch iPad Pro , then it’s even better.
But there are still a few restrictions. You can’t align an app window alongside the edge of the screen; there’s always some gap on either side. Plus, iPadOS 17 automatically tries to adjust the window position to a more center-aligned position.
Yes, it’s not as liberating and flexible as Android 13-based One UI 5 on a Samsung tablet , but after a whole year of borderline frustrating experience with Stage Manager, I will gladly take whatever flexibility Apple is currently offering with Stage Manager in iPadOS 17.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Another neat touch is that Stage Manager remembers the size of each app window in the cluster. As you switch between stages, your iPad not only shows app windows in your pre-selected format but also remembers whether the dock is visible — or not — for that particular window arrangement.
You still don’t have pixel-level control over the size of app windows. Once you tweak the window size of an app, iPadOS 17 automatically does some vertical and horizontal adjustments of its own. But why would Apple want to gatekeep the size of app windows? My guess is that Apple is still focused on offering a meaningfully scaled view of apps instead of just cramping or expanding the UI, as is the case with most Android tablets.
In hindsight, it’s a blessing in disguise. So far, I haven’t come across many apps that look like a cramped mess, irrespective of the window size or aspect ratio adjustments I’ve made.
There are still some UI bugs Image used with permission by copyright holder There are still a few unresolved issues with Stage Manager. While handling multiple app clusters, you can’t directly click on an app’s icon and open it, regardless of whether you are trying to do so in Stage Manager mode or multi-tasking view. It’s rather funny — and frustrating to equal measure — that when you tap your finger or hover the cursor over an app’s icon, it is magnified, hinting that it is ready for user input.
But when you tap on it, nothing happens. Instead, you will have to push-click on the larger app cluster or stage icon to open it. But that’s not all. When you click on a cluster or stage to open an intended app, it won’t directly pop up on the main view. Instead, you will see the app that was in the foreground when you last worked on that app group or stage.
The only other way to instantly access an app after opening a cluster or stage is if you’ve already adjusted the size of the windows in such a way that the desired app is always in view. But do keep in mind that if you extend the vertical height of an app window beyond the dock, it disappears. And that’s another problem.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Unlike certain Android skins on tablets, where you can see app clusters you’ve made at the bottom of the screen and access them with one click, iPadOS doesn’t offer any such flexibility. That becomes troublesome when the dock is no longer visible, so you have to open the multi-task view, peer into the Stage Manager array on the left edge of the screen, and then select the right cluster.
But even at this stage, there’s one more hurdle to overcome. By default, Stage Manager adjusts the window size in such a way that only half the stage icon is visible on the left side of the screen. That means, at any given time, you only have two app icons in your view out of three or four. The only way to overcome this is if you resize the window and move it towards the right edge of the screen so that you can see each app’s icon in a stage (like in the image above).
Another downside of vertically increasing the size of app windows and losing view of the app dock is that you can no longer see the number of notifications for each app. In multi-task or Stage Manager, app icons don’t show the notification bubble. So, there’s that compromise to live with, as well.
A rewarding experience, or closest to one App windows usually hide half the icons in the Stage Manager dock on the side.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends With iPadOS 17, Stage Manager is finally taking the form that it was always destined to serve. Yes, there are still some minor UI caveats, but I’m not sure whether Apple will address them all. So far, though, I am impressed with how smooth the upgraded Stage Manager experience has turned out to be.
Switching between stages is a breeze. So far, I haven’t come across any app crashes or aggressive background activity limits. Even with multiple browsers running across different app clusters, each with a couple of dozen tabs active, every UI interaction has been zippy and buttery smooth. More than ever, it makes sense why Apple wanted to limit this perk to iPads with the mighty M-series silicon only.
With iPadOS 17, Stage Manager is finally taking the form that it was always destined to serve.
It would be utterly cool if Apple could also port over the macOS multitasking keyboard shortcuts to iPadOS, too. It would be a shame not to because the Magic Keyboard has been ready for such powerful tasks for years.
On a concluding note, I can confidently say that if you’ve been waiting for Stage Manager to morph into a desktop-like device, Stage Manager on iPadOS 17 is the closest you can get.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Apple needs to fix the iPad Apple may launch new iPads soon, and you should be excited These 7 apps make iOS 17’s StandBy mode even better Here’s what iOS 17’s coolest feature looks like in action Apple Apple iPad Features Mobile Widgets have been a popular feature on iPhones for a long time. With iOS 17, these widgets have become interactive, creating a more immersive experience. With interactive widgets, you can take important actions right from your iPhone home screen and lock screen. For instance, you can complete to-do lists, play and pause media and podcasts, access your Home app controls, and much more — all without having to open any apps.
Interactive widgets aren't solely for Apple's native apps in iOS 17. Third-party developers are also embracing the new feature. While the list of apps that utilize the new feature is still short, a few have already stood out. Here are some interactive widgets worth exploring.
Copilot Mobile Spotlight on iOS 17 Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The rollout of iOS 17 is official, and it freshens the software experience on iPhones dating as far back as the iPhone XR. I’ve been testing it on my iPhone 14 Pro ever since the first public beta rolled out, at the peril of unreliable battery life and random stutters all across the board.
Mobile Android tablets aren’t a patch on the Apple iPad, right? I mean, they don’t come close in app compatibility, performance, or versatility — making Android as an operating system good on phones, but disappointing on tablets. That’s the rule, and it’s one I have followed for some time.
At least, that was until I forced myself to live with and use the Google Pixel Tablet just like I do my iPad Pro. Would it change my mind? A bit, yes, but another Android tablet changed it more.
What does my tablet need to do? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
