Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Apple needs to fix the iPad By Christine Romero-Chan Close Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends While there were rumors that Apple would reveal a new iPad mini during the “Scary Fast” M3 Mac event on October 30, that never came to fruition. In fact, we have yet to see any new iPad models come out this year, which is rather peculiar.
The problem with iPads today The accessories aren’t any better Apple needs to simplify the iPad line While we’re having a break between iPad releases, I think it’s time to reflect on how much of a mess the lineup is and how Apple should reconsider simplifying the portfolio. While iPads are still among the best tablets you can buy, there’s also a lot that should change in 2024.
The problem with iPads today Andy Boxall / Digital Trends At the moment, Apple sells the following iPad models on its website: the iPad mini , iPad 9th generation , iPad 10th generation , iPad Air , 11-inch iPad Pro, and 12.9-inch iPad Pro.
 That’s six total models with five different sizes, five different processors used, two different charging ports, and support for a mishmash of accessories. And that’s just the iPads themselves.
Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS Now, let’s take a look at the Apple Pencil lineup , which is the stylus accessory that is used for all iPad models. We have the original first-generation Apple Pencil, second-generation Apple Pencil, and the new Apple Pencil USB-C.
 Then there are the keyboard accessories: the Magic Keyboard , Magic Keyboard Folio , or just any old Bluetooth keyboard you may already have.
For the average person who isn’t a techie, they’re probably going to be overwhelmed by all the available choices for iPads and would have to ask someone more knowledgeable for a recommendation based on their needs — or even possibly do their own research via buying guides.
Adam Doud / Digital Trends One of the reasons that the current iPad lineup may be a bit confusing for some people is the fact that there are two standard iPad models that are being sold at the same time: the 9th-gen and 10th-gen iPads. When Apple introduced the 10th-generation model, it did not discontinue the 9th generation. Instead, it kept it around as the “budget” iPad, which is also the only iPad with the Home button and that still uses a Lightning port rather than USB-C.
There’s also the problem of iPad models that are very similar to each other, like the iPad Air and the 11-inch iPad Pro. They’re about the same size (10.9 inches versus 11 inches) and have a similar build with flat edges. The iPad Pro has an M2 chip, dual camera system, Face ID, and a ProMotion display, while the iPad Air has an older M1 chip, one camera, no ProMotion, and Touch ID in the top button.
For most people, the iPad Air is probably the better option since it’s $200 cheaper ($799 versus $599). But if you’re going to get the iPad Pro, the 12.9-inch version has the better display between the two sizes anyway. I like my older 11-inch iPad Pro from a few years ago, but even I admit that the current one is in a bit of an odd place now.
The accessories aren’t any better Joe Maring / Digital Trends Even if someone determines which iPad is right for them, there’s the confusing compatible accessory lineup as well.
It was a bit easier when there were only two Apple Pencils, but now we have three because Apple decided to randomly introduce a new Apple Pencil with USB-C. It’s a mash-up of the second-generation aesthetic, but it pairs and charges via USB-C in the same way the first generation uses Lightning. However, it has fewer features than both the first- and second-generation models. But hey, it’s the cheapest one! That has to count for something, right? Joe Maring / Digital Trends On the keyboard front, Apple has the following: the Smart Keyboard, Smart Keyboard Folio, Magic Keyboard Folio, and Magic Keyboard. All of these keyboards have compatibility with certain iPad models, with some only working on older models, so you have to make sure that you get the one that is compatible with your current iPad.
The cheapest option is the Smart Keyboard ,which starts at $159, but it’s pretty much just for older iPads. The Smart Keyboard Folio, which is more for current-generation devices, starts at $179.The Magic Keyboard Folio is $249, and the top-of-the-line Magic Keyboard is $299. These aren’t cheap accessories and will definitely add to the total cost of whichever iPad model you eventually choose.
Apple needs to simplify the iPad line Andy Boxall / Digital Trends When the iPad originally debuted in 2010, it was simple: there was just the iPad. It remained the only iPad model until Apple added the iPad mini in 2013, then the iPad Air in 2014, and finally the iPad Pro in 2016. Since then, we’ve had four variations of the iPad, with the sizes changing every so often to reflect smaller bezels and no more Home buttons.
While having different iPad models is nice, it’s become convoluted and unnecessarily complicated, especially when Apple keeps the previous generation model alongside the new one (9th- and 10th-gen iPad) and has multiple sizes for one model.
I think it’s time for Apple to trim the fat a little once the next iPad refresh comes around. Do we really need two standard iPad models? Is there a real need for an 11-inch iPad Pro when there’s the iPad Air, or vice versa? Did we really need to have a third Apple Pencil option? No, no, and no.
Apple should go back to the days when its lineup of devices followed a simple rule: less is more.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade The iPhone is getting out of control 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Apple Apple iPad Features Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Mobile Apple launched the iPhone 15 lineup recently, which includes the iPhone 15, iPhone 15 Plus, iPhone 15 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max. Of course, while the new series appears to be a hit with most, it’s not without its own set of issues too.
Despite the fact that the iPhone 15 has only been out for a few weeks, the rumor mill for the iPhone 16 has already begun, though it’s still quite early. But from what we’ve gathered so far, it looks like the iPhone 16 could be another worthy upgrade, especially if you haven’t picked up an iPhone 15 already.
More buttons and a haptic transition Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
