Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple may launch new iPads soon, and you should be excited By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Apple has been relatively silent since announcing the iPhone 15 series and new Apple Watches in September. However, there are rumors that new iPads could be announced soon. Although Apple didn’t announce any new iPads on October 17 as originally suspected, it’s evident that new iPads are likely coming at some point in the near future.
What’s the news? iPad mini 7 iPad Air 6 11th generation iPad What about the iPad Pro? What’s the most exciting 2023 iPad? As the announcement will almost certainly be made through an online press release, not a full-blown press event, you might think these updates won’t be significant. Still, this news could not have come at a better time for those planning to buy an iPad, as the holiday buying season is starting to ramp up.
Before you get too excited, be aware that even if the announcements are made soon, the new tablets likely won’t be released this month. Here’s what we know.
Apple needs to fix the iPad The USB-C Apple Pencil fixes an iPad problem I’ve had for years Apple’s new in-store device aimed at improving iPhone setup process What’s the news? Adam Doud / Digital Trends According to weekend reports from Supercharged and 9to5Mac , it was rumored that Apple would announce updated versions of the iPad mini, iPad Air, and entry-level iPad this week — specifically, on October 17. Apple expert Mark Gurman from Bloomberg also predicts the announcement of new tablets in the near future. However, Gurman stated on X (formerly Twitter) that he does not believe any significant updates will happen soon. On Bloomberg , he went further and said that new iPads are not expected to be released this month.
I’d like to believe everyone above is correct, and new iPads are about to be announced but perhaps not released until November or December. Apple missed the October 17 date that some were speculating, but that doesn’t mean new iPads aren’t still on the way. After all, Apple needs something to go along with its new USB-C Apple Pencil.
iPad mini 7 Adam Doud / Digital Trends Apple has released six iPad mini models over the years, which is hard to believe. Despite often matching the current iPad Air’s internals, Apple has shown little love for the smaller tablet. However, just when you think the device might be forgotten, Apple releases a new model that it heavily promotes, at least for a few weeks.
The current version of the iPad mini was announced over two years ago alongside the ninth-generation iPad and iPhone 13 series. With its 8.3-inch display, the tablet was similar to the fourth-generation iPad Air, which was announced a year earlier and then discontinued with the launch of the fifth-generation iPad Air in March 2022.
The sixth-generation iPad mini is equipped with the A15 Bionic chip. Despite being an older model, the iPad mini still boasts a more powerful chip than the 10th-generation iPad, which was released a year later with the A14 Bionic chip. The iPad mini typically has better internals than the budget iPad. And despite its smaller display, it has higher price points.
In comparison, the iPad Air features the M1 chip, while the M2 chip powers the latest iPad Pro models.
Rumors suggest a seventh-generation iPad mini will feature an A16 Bionic chip, a slight improvement over the A15 Bionic chip. It could also include a new display controller to remove the jelly scrolling issue that has affected some iPad mini 6 users.
iPad Air 6 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Information about the upcoming sixth iPad Air and 11th iPad is scarce. However, the former will likely feature the M2 chip since the current model contains the M1. We can also take cues from the 11-inch iPad Pro (4th generation) to get an idea of what features the next iPad Air will (and won’t) have.
The updated features of the new iPad Air may include ProMotion 120Hz technology for the display and a 10-core GPU that is powered by the M2 chip. There is also a possibility of a USB-C connector with Thunderbolt /USB 4 support and an upgrade to Wi-Fi 6 with speeds up to 2.4 Gbps.
Apple will likely continue to differentiate the iPad Air from the iPad Pro regarding the camera system and authentication. For instance, the less expensive iPad Air is unlikely to have an ultrawide camera or offer Face ID. Storage beyond 256GB is probably also out of reach.
Apple has a history of introducing new and innovative colors for the iPad Air. It may continue this trend with the next iPad Air release. The previous two generations of iPad Air were offered in five colors, so figure another five are incoming.
11th generation iPad Joe Maring / Digital Trends Finally, let’s talk about the upcoming next-generation iPad. The current model was last updated a year ago and features an A14 Bionic chip. The newest version is expected to have minor updates, including the A15 Bionic chip. Like its predecessor, the 11th-generation iPad should still feature a 10.9-inch Liquid Retina display and Touch ID integrated into the top button.
If Apple follows past practice, the arrival of the 11th generation iPad should mean the iPad (10th generation) will stick around at a lower price. Currently, the iPad (9th generation) starts at $329, while the iPad (10th generation) starts at $429.
What about the iPad Pro? Joe Maring / Digital Trends If you usually purchase iPad Pro models, you may have to wait another year for the latest updates. According to rumors, however, this wait will be worth it.
Reportedly, the upcoming iPad Pro lineup, which is expected to launch sometime next year, will have OLED screens for the first time and will be powered by the new M3 chip. The largest iPad Pro may also have a slightly bigger display of 13 inches, up from the current 12.9 inches. Both models may also feature new glass bodies.
The 11-inch and 12.9-inch iPad Pros were updated a year ago.
What’s the most exciting 2023 iPad? Adam Doud / Digital Trends Although I have not personally used an iPad mini, I know many friends who have been eagerly waiting for a new model to be released. Among the three tablets expected to be announced this week, I believe the iPad mini 7 will receive the most attention.
The regular iPad will also be in the spotlight, especially for the general public. During the holiday shopping season, Apple will likely offer the biggest discounts on the regular iPad, even if it’s only $25 to $50 off.
The iPad Air, which provides a good balance between the regular iPad and the more expensive iPad Pro, will also have its backers. Since there isn’t a Product Red iPhone this year, perhaps that color will appear on the new iPad Air. Wouldn’t a red iPad look nice? Indeed, it would.
Although it looks like new iPads won’t be released in the immediate future, there are enough rumors to indicate they’ll be arriving at some point. And when they do, we should be in for some pretty solid upgrades.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Shopping at Apple this holiday season? You should know this The new Apple Pencil is cheaper, gets USB-C, and is missing critical features I found 11 new widgets for iOS 17 that you have to try You can already use the Apple Watch Series 9’s best new feature Apple Apple iPad Tech News Mobile At the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC 2023), Apple unveiled the latest version of iPadOS — iPadOS 17, equipped with new features and improvements. The update brings new ways of customizing the lock screen, interacting with widgets, and working on PDFs in the Notes app. Additionally, the Health app is now available on iPads for the first time.
The iPadOS 17 update, while perhaps featuring fewer new or updated features than previous versions, still brings several noteworthy changes and improvements. For instance, the Messages app has received some updates, as has FaceTime. Additionally, Safari and Password have seen some tweaks and improvements. In addition to these changes, the update includes new sticker packs, which can add fun and creativity to your conversations. While it may not be the most extensive update, iPadOS 17 still brings valuable and enjoyable improvements.
Mobile Apple finally revealed the iPhone 15 at its “Wonderlust” event on September 12. This lineup includes the iPhone 15, iPhone 15 Plus, iPhone 15 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max. There were other products announced during the event as well, but the iPhone 15 series is the biggest of the bunch.
However, Apple’s really been dropping the ball lately in terms of device colors. This year is especially bad with the very pastel and muted colors of the iPhone 15 models, not to mention the various shades of gray for the iPhone 15 Pro variants.
Mobile Apple has revealed the next generation of iPhone with the iPhone 15 lineup at its Wonderlust event. This includes the standard iPhone 15, iPhone 15 Plus, iPhone 15 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
But one of the rising trends in smartphones is foldables. So, that naturally begs an important question: Do any of the iPhone 15 models fold? Let’s take a closer look.
Does the iPhone 15 fold? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
