Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The USB-C Apple Pencil fixes an iPad problem I’ve had for years By Nadeem Sarwar Close Apple Apple launched a new stylus yesterday. The company is pushing it as an affordable alternative to the second-gen Apple Pencil. In typical Apple fashion, though, the latest stylus — called the Apple Pencil (USB-C) — is still not the most affordable option for your slate. Actually, far from it.
But it finally washes away an embarrassing product blunder, one that crippled the original Apple Pencil functionally and also made it alaughingstock from a design perspective. I won’t say much and will let the issue itself do the talking with this beautiful image: Malarie Gokey / Digital Trends Also, when the original Apple Pencil ran out of juice, you had to push its Lightning connector inside the iPad’s Lightning port. It was bad.
 But then it got worse! With the introduction of iPads with a USB-C port, stylus fans had to spend a few extra dollars to buy an adapter — something that was made infamous with the iPad 10th generation.
 It was the opposite of convenient, to put it subtly. And it looked even worse, as you can see in the image below: Joe Maring / Digital Trends Apple addressed the problem by adding magnetic charging to the second-gen Apple Pencil, ensuring that it never runs out of charge as it always sits atop your iPad. But then, at $129, it was quite a hefty asking price for a stylus. That’s where the Apple Pencil (USB-C) comes into the picture.
It costs $79, attaches magnetically to any iPad, and features a USB-C port for charging. You no longer have to plug it directly into an iPad or power port. As long as you’ve got a USB-C cable, you can juice it up.
Apple Apple skipped magnetic charging on this one to justify the lower cost, despite the design being identical to the second-gen Apple Pencil. But it’s also a blessing in disguise. Compared to a magnetic charging strip, a charging system facilitated by a USB-C port is less sophisticated and fragile.
Yes, Apple also nixed pressure sensitivity from the Apple Pencil (USB-C), which is either an unforgivable deduction or an acceptable omission, depending on who you ask. For a serious graphics designer, it is simply a sin. For an average person who’s mostly into note-taking or video editing, pressure sensitivity isn’t a must-have.
It’s in a different Apple league Apple But let’s look at the alternatives. The Logitech Crayon is still limited to the Lightning standard and doesn’t come with the Apple Care+ coverage that gives you battery replacement (and repair) benefit for $29. It costs $69, just $10 shy of the Apple Pencil (USB-C), but misses out on pressure sensitivity. And since it doesn’t stick magnetically to an iPad, you will have to be careful lest it gets misplaced.
The other potent alternative is the Zagg Pro Stylus 2. It attaches magnetically to the side of an iPad, charges via a USB-C port, supports tilt recognition and palm rejection, comes in a bunch of cool colors, and even supports Qi wireless charging. But at the same $79, it lasts just about half as long as Apple’s stylus.
One might ask: Is the Apple Pencil (USB-C) the answer to all our prayers from a functional and financial perspective? Not exactly. After all, if your only concern is note-taking, a $10 Adonit stylus is more than sufficient for the task. So, why pick the new Apple stylus, which costs seven times as much? Well, it offers the best pixel-level accuracy you can get on the iPad, great tilt sensitivity, a neat magnetically attaching design, hover support for the M2 iPad Pro models, and a USB-C port for charging — all while cutting down on features that only a creative would want. But above all that, it serves a level of quality assurance and promise of in-house longevity that only an Apple Stylus can deliver.
I would go as far as calling it a glorified Apple Pencil 2 SE in the same vein as the iPhone SE.
 It’s more than a stopgap solution. This one fixes an error that made Apple the butt of industrial design jokes and strikes a near-perfect balance between price and perks by Apple product standards.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Apple needs to fix the iPad The new Apple Pencil is cheaper, gets USB-C, and is missing critical features I’ve had the iPhone 15 Pro Max for 48 hours. Here are 3 things you need to know I’ve been using iOS 17 for months. These 4 new things are the best Apple Apple iPad Features Mobile Yesterday's iPhone 15 event revolved solely around the iPhone 15/iPhone 15 Plus, iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max, and Apple Watch Series 9 (along with Apple Watch Ultra 2). As a result, no new iPads, Macs, or audio products were announced. This news isn't surprising, and the omissions suggest another Apple event may occur before the year's end, although this has yet to be confirmed and may not happen for a few weeks.
There are a lot of would-be Apple products that could make appearances in the coming weeks or months — but weren't shown at today's event.
New iPads Mobile There's one question that strikes fear into the heart of any Android user: "Do you have a phone charger?" Or, at the very least, it makes me mildly annoyed in a world dominated by iPhones.
I've been an Android user since I first picked up a smartphone, and every time I'm around friends or family, someone will ask for a charger without fail. I've even picked up a couple of Lightning cables to keep around whenever someone needs to top off. Now, I'm ecstatic that the days of digging through a pile of misfit cables are finally behind me.
Universal for years Mobile I don't think the iPhone 15's transition to USB-C is going to be all that painful. Yes, the Lightning plug has found its way to every corner of the world, and you're just as likely to find one to charge up your phone as you are any other cable when you're desperate for some juice, but we can't discount just how many USB-C chargers, cables, and accessories there are out in the world already. This is going to go just fine.
But you can always count on Apple to take advantage of switching standards with some hilariously priced -- and borderline pointless -- adapters to ease the transition for people who don't know any better but to click a few extra buttons and purchase official accessories when they're buying their latest device. Enter Apple's USB-C to Lightning adapter, which is conveniently already available on the Apple Store.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
