Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features I abandoned my iPad for an Android tablet and didn’t hate it By Andy Boxall Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Android tablets aren’t a patch on the Apple iPad, right? I mean, they don’t come close in app compatibility, performance, or versatility — making Android as an operating system good on phones, but disappointing on tablets. That’s the rule, and it’s one I have followed for some time.
What does my tablet need to do? Getting the right accessories Living with the Pixel Tablet Has my opinion about Android tablets changed? Better than before, still not great At least, that was until I forced myself to live with and use the Google Pixel Tablet just like I do my iPad Pro. Would it change my mind? A bit, yes, but another Android tablet changed it more.
What does my tablet need to do? Andy Boxall / DigitalTrends I’ve used an iPad ever since getting a first-generation model, which still lives on today in the hands of my father , while I have steadily upgraded every few years until buying an iPad Pro in 2020.
 At that time, I used it mostly at home, and it became the key media device in my life, almost entirely replacing my television (thanks in no small part to TVs being useless with headphones ). It was also instrumental in introducing me to the joys of YouTube.
When I added the Magic Keyboard , it became a secondary work device too, and although I didn’t travel far in 2020 and 2021, it was perfect for use in the car, coffee shops, parks, and other nearby locations. This is how it has operated ever since, and I doubt I’m all that different from other people. Tablets are perfect for videos, books, shopping, some work, social networks, and games.
Yet, the Android tablets I’ve used have always been much worse at all this than the iPad. The iPad works just like my iPhone, the operating system is fast and responsive, apps are always perfectly formatted for the screen, and performance is excellent. I use my iPad Pro more than my TV because streaming apps are faster, easier to navigate, and the screen is beautiful.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Using an Android tablet was like using my TV, where it was always a bit slow, the apps didn’t always look very good, and it seemed stupid to put up with it all when I had a better device for all these things sitting right next to me. Keyboards have rarely been as good as the Magic Keyboard either, especially as it doubles so perfectly as a stand and protective case. That’s all before having to deal with manufacturer interfaces over Android, out-of-date operating systems, and other annoyances. Unless forced to do otherwise, I have chosen my iPad over an Android tablet for years.
Getting the right accessories Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I think it’s safe to say I was not an Android tablet fan, and when Digital Trends’ Mobile Editor Joe Maring gave the Google Pixel Tablet a low score in his review , I had few reasons to think anything had changed. When I first used the Pixel Tablet, I found how I really like the way it docks and becomes a smart home display , but the rest of the experience wasn’t very inspiring.
But I did notice it was better than I remembered other non-Google tablets to be, so for the last week or so, I’ve shunned my iPad and used the Pixel Tablet for everything. Before embarking on my Pixel journey, I needed a case and a keyboard. Google’s official case is ridiculously expensive, so I looked elsewhere. Unfortunately, the choice is really limited, and I couldn’t find any keyboard cases at all. I ended up buying a cheap case from Amazon that would support the tablet upright and dusted off my trusty Keychron K3 Bluetooth keyboard.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends It’s not a very elegant solution as the cheap case does the job (barely), but it’s average quality at best and looks like rubbish when the Pixel Tablet is docked/ The overall footprint of the tablet and the Keychron K3 is also bigger than that of the iPad Pro and Magic Keyboard. The one good thing is that as a package, it’s lighter than the heavyweight iPad Pro and keyboard. Regardless of my frustrations about Google not fully supporting the Pixel Tablet with varied and reasonably priced accessories, I’d nailed together something that I could use for work.
Living with the Pixel Tablet Andy Boxall / Digital Trends When I work outside, I just need a keyboard and a word-processing app. It would be a poor showing if Google Docs didn’t work very well on the Pixel Tablet, but luckily it’s great, and the K3 keyboard stayed connected without a problem. The tablet also linked to the Google Pixel Fold so I could grab an internet connection. Why use a Bluetooth keyboard? The Pixel Tablet’s onscreen keyboard hides some punctuation, and stopping to find them breaks my flow.
Screen brightness is similar to the iPad and my MacBook Air M1 , and it’s just about manageable in bright sunlight. However, the Pixel Tablet didn’t enjoy the sun much, and it has warned me the system is too hot several times. This has never happened with the iPad or my MacBook, but it didn’t seem to affect Docs or Chrome. The split-screen feature is easy to enable, and the large screen makes it useful.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends While I found I could comfortably work on the Pixel Tablet without a really good keyboard case accessory, it all felt rather cobbled together, and the overheating didn’t give me much confidence. But at least it’s light and easy to carry around, and the battery didn’t give me any trouble at all. When I returned home, I just placed the Pixel Tablet back on its dock to instantly start charging back up.
I love this feature, and it’s something I can’t do with the iPad, where I often get a notification that the battery is down to 10% after I forget to plug it in. The Pixel Tablet and the amazing dock avoid this problem, and it does mean it’s always ready to go when I leave the house while remaining useful at other times. It really is a fantastic feature; it’s just a shame that once the Pixel Tablet is out of the house, the experience isn’t quite so polished.
Previous Next 1 3 Apple iPad Pro (left) and Pixel Tablet Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple iPad Pro (left) and Pixel Tablet Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple iPad Pro (left) and Pixel Tablet Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I’ve tried to ignore the 60Hz refresh rate screen, which doesn’t dramatically change the way video looks, but does affect scrolling through apps and the operating system. It’s obviously nowhere near as slick as the iPad’s ProMotion 120Hz screen , but I’ve been binge-watching Justified on Disney+, and the show looks just as good on the Pixel Tablet as it does on the iPad Pro. In fact, videos on the Pixel Tablet are excellent.
Some apps still don’t always look so good, though. The differences are often jarring and, while not detrimental to the functionality, can make the tablet feel like using a massive phone. Take Netflix as an example, where an individual show’s page on Android appears to be a giant phone app, unlike the more dedicated tablet view on the iPad. The good news is that there are fewer outliers in this regard these days, and apps I use regularly, like Disney+ and Autotrader, look just as good on either tablet.
Has my opinion about Android tablets changed? Amazon Fire Max 11 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends After solidly using the Pixel Tablet for a week, has my opinion about it and Android tablets in general changed? I have warmed to the Pixel Tablet, and Android on it is far more usable on a daily basis than ever before. The convenience of the dock makes it very special, and I can forgive the 60Hz refresh rate when I’m watching videos. But I had to force myself to take it outside and work on it, as the lack of an official keyboard or an equivalent of the Magic Keyboard hurts it.
If I only watched videos and used the dock to turn the Pixel Tablet into a smart home device, I’d happily recommend it and would be comfortable living with it each day. But that’s not how I live with tablets, especially ones that cost $500. It needs to earn its keep and do a bit of everything. I bought my iPad Pro and Magic Keyboard in 2020, and it still seems fresh today. I wonder how the Pixel Tablet will feel in 2026. If it doesn’t get a proper keyboard, it may have already been consigned to spend its life attached to the dock at home.
On the positive side, I haven’t wanted to abandon the Pixel Tablet during my week with it, but another tablet has constantly been on my mind, and it’s not the iPad Pro. It’s the Amazon Fire Max 11.
 During my review of Amazon’s amazing tablet, I used it in the same way I use my iPad Pro, and it was a more cohesive, comfortable experience than the Pixel Tablet — especially once I’d installed Google Play and Google Docs.
 I can’t get it out of my mind that the Fire Max 11 costs half as much and comes with a great keyboard case.
Better than before, still not great Joe Maring / Digital Trends If my iPad Pro was taken away from me tomorrow, and I needed to choose a non-iPad replacement, I’d pick the Amazon Fire Max 11 over the Pixel Tablet. It managed to change my opinion about Android tablets a little more than the Pixel Tablet, which despite it being much better than I thought it would be when used every day, is still flawed. The Amazon tablet isn’t perfect either, but it is a lot cheaper, and that makes its problems far easier to forgive.
Where do I go from here? I like the Pixel Tablet, and it seems some Android tablets are better than I remember, but this is hardly a ringing endorsement. That’s why I’m returning to my iPad Pro and Magic Keyboard. I like the Fire Max 11, and I have a better understanding of the Pixel Tablet’s strengths after more time with it, but the fact is my three-year-old iPad still does everything better than the pair of them.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Apple needs to fix the iPad The USB-C Apple Pencil fixes an iPad problem I’ve had for years 4 things Android phones still do better than the iPhone 15 Everything Apple didn’t announce at its iPhone 15 event Amazon Android Apple Apple iPad Features Google Google Pixel Mobile Apple laid out its pitch for the new iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Pro in its usual slick, perfectly manicured fashion. It's easy to get to the end and think, "wow, they thought of everything this year!" ... but with just a couple minutes of reflection you start to realize what they tactfully chose to omit. This year, disappointingly, that was battery life.
In its full 85-minute presentation, Apple didn't boast about the battery life on any of the four iPhones it introduced, even the big-screened iPhone 15 Plus and iPhone 15 Pro Max. Just to double-check, I went over to Apple's comparison tool to look at the numbers: Mobile Apple appears set to overhaul the iPad Pro, though the refreshed tablet seems unlikely to hit the market until next year.
The news appeared on Sunday courtesy of Bloomberg’s Mark Gurman, who often calls it right with Apple-related news.
Mobile For more than a decade, I’ve been using Apple’s iPhone. I started with the original iPhone in 2008, which was a birthday gift and also my first Apple product, and have upgraded every year since.
However, since I started at Digital Trends, I’ve been checking out more Android phones. Though not all Android phones are winners, there have been a few that I've really enjoyed — including the Google Pixel 7, Samsung Galaxy S23, Google Pixel Fold, and Nothing Phone 2. I’ve experienced firsthand how Android handles some things a lot better than the iPhone, like customization and notifications, and the hardware designs can definitely be a lot more interesting.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
