Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features I made myself try a 14.5-inch tablet — and it didn’t go very well By Christine Romero-Chan Close Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Everyone has a tablet these days — whether it’s an Apple iPad or an Android tablet from Samsung, Lenovo, or even OnePlus. Tablets are great devices, as they let you be productive or stay entertained when a smartphone or a laptop just won’t do. And in some ways, they are easier to carry around than a full-on laptop.
11-inch tablets are the perfect size Need a large tablet? Why not use a laptop? It’s just not my cup of tea But I think there’s a limit. Tablets come in all sorts of sizes, from the super-portable iPad mini to large behemoths like the Lenovo Tab Extreme and Samsung’s Galaxy S8 Ultra.
I just reviewed the 14.5-inch Lenovo Tab Extreme, and while there are certainly benefits to having such a large tablet, it’s also a double-edged sword in some ways, especially when it comes to portability.
I abandoned my iPad for an Android tablet and didn’t hate it Tablets at CES 2023 are beating the iPad in big and unexpected ways Forget Apple’s newest iPad — the Galaxy Tab S8 should be your next tablet 11-inch tablets are the perfect size Tushar Mehta/Digital Trends Though I don’t upgrade my iPad every year as I do with my iPhone , I’ve gone through various iPad models over the years. From the original 9.7-inch iPad to the iPad mini 4 to the second-generation 12.9-inch iPad Pro, I’ve tried most iPad sizes out by this point. And my personal favorite size is actually the 11-inch iPad Pro or even the OnePlus Pad.
 I think they’re the perfect size.
I want my tablet to be bigger than my smartphone, of course, but I also don’t want it to be so big that it’s hard to carry, which is a problem I have with the 12.9-inch iPad Pro. I appreciate having more screen space when I’m out and about or just want to wind down watching a streaming movie or show, or even play some games or read a book. More screen real estate also helps when editing photos, which I often do for work.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends With that in mind, the iPad mini would suffice for a few of those things, but not all. But if I’m getting a tablet, I want it to be a lot bigger than, say, an iPhone 14 Pro Max.
 The iPad mini is just too similar to that size to be useful.
I haven’t had an iPad Air, but I still have a 2020 11-inch iPad Pro, and it’s my favorite. The 11-inch display gives me plenty of space for watching videos, reading, playing games, and checking my social media, email, and messages. If I need to write or edit photos, there’s enough space to comfortably do that, too, without it being cramped or too large. I also love it for signing documents when I need to.
For me, the 11-inch iPad Pro is like the Goldilocks size of tablet. It gives you plenty of space to do whatever you need on it without ever feeling like it’s “too much.” And it should easily fit in whatever bag you’re already using for carrying your laptop around without adding too much extra weight.
Need a large tablet? Why not use a laptop? Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Lenovo Tab Extreme is one of the largest tablets that I’ve ever used, and honestly, I’m not a fan. During my testing of the device, I noticed some things about it that I just didn’t like because of the unwieldy size.
First off, it’s huge.
 When I use tablets, I prefer them to be just a tablet rather than a laptop replacement. I use a 27-inch iMac for work, and I have a 13-inch MacBook Pro if I need to work on the go. Even with an iPad, I was never a big fan of replacing my laptop with a tablet with a keyboard accessory that turns it into a pseudo-laptop because of software limitations (with both iOS and Android ) — I’ll never be as productive on a tablet as I am on an actual computer with macOS or even Windows.
With that in mind, I like to just lay back on the couch with a tablet and check my email and social media, watch some videos, or play a few games. Because of the sheer size of the Lenovo Tab Extreme, it’s hard to do that. And when I try to use it in the keyboard case, it’s so top-heavy that it always feels like it’s about to fall off my lap; it’s definitely one of those tablets that you need to use on a table or a flat surface.
The idea of a large tablet may be appealing to some people who want to use it for work, and I get that. In fact, it might even be cheaper than buying a laptop around that same size (15 inches). But I feel that you could also just sacrifice an inch or two and get a slightly smaller laptop for around the same price, and it would be better for productivity, with real multitasking and actual desktop applications. No matter how good a tablet app is, the desktop versions never need to make compromises.
It’s just not my cup of tea Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I can see why some people may have an interest in these extremely large tablets, but for me, it’s just too big. One of the reasons why I like tablets is that they can be more portable than a laptop.
But when you go to such large sizes, especially with a keyboard case that also adds some weight and bulk, it just kind of defeats the purpose for me. At that point, if you’re going for a laptop experience, why not just get an actual laptop ? Thankfully, the tablet market isn’t flooded with these super-large tablets. This niche corner of the tablet market only has devices like the Lenovo Tab Extreme that I just reviewed or the Samsung Galaxy S8 Ultra, though Samsung is expected to reveal the Galaxy S9 Ultra very soon.
I think the 11-inch size for a tablet is simply the perfect threshold, so I’ll just be sticking to that. Maybe I’m in the minority here, but seriously, no one really needs a gigantic tablet.
Editors' Recommendations Everything Apple didn’t announce at its iPhone 15 event The 11-inch iPad Pro is a great tablet that Apple needs to kill The Lenovo Tab Extreme comes to CES 2023 to take on the iPad Pro The most innovative tablets of 2022 Apple’s 14-inch iPad might not have two critical features Android Apple Apple iPad Features Lenovo Mobile Apple is reportedly going jumbo-sized for the iPad Pro next year. According to display supply chain analyst Ross Young, an iPad Pro with a 14.1-inch screen is in the pipeline and will likely hit store shelves in 2023. Bloomberg's Mark Gurman also reports that "a larger version of the iPad Pro" is slated to launch next year.
Last year, Gurman speculated that Apple was experimenting with 14-inch and 16-inch screen sizes for its supersized iPad Pro. Aside from upping the screen real estate from 12.9-inch to 14-inch, Apple may bring its LED tech to its upcoming tablet along with ProMotion tech for 120Hz fast refresh rates.
Mobile A new entry-level iPad is coming later this year, and might possibly be unveiled alongside the iPhone 14 series. According to Dylan (@dylandkt), the 10th-gen iPad is slated for an official introduction towards the end of 2022. So, what’s changing this time around? Not much, actually.
Potential buyers are in line for the customary generation-over-generation chip upgrade. In this case, the silicon upgrade is still lagging by a whole generation. The 2022 iPad refresh will reportedly come equipped with an A14 Bionic chip. The 6th-gen iPad Mini that came out last year offers the faster A15 Bionic processor, the same system on a chip that also serves as the brains inside the iPhone 13 series phones.
Mobile The Nokia T20 has prompted a tablet epiphany. I have owned many different tablets over the years, with my lifestyle fitting the functionality they offer. Still, unfortunately, most of them have quickly been discarded due to never living up to expectations or failing to keep up with my usage. All except for the Apple iPad, that is. I’ve owned several generations, and none have been hidden away in the "tech drawer of doom." Over the last few weeks, I’ve been using the Nokia T20 tablet, and it has finally brought about that epiphany. I've refused to believe it for ages, but I now can safely say that if you want a tablet, it’s absolutely worth paying more to get an iPad.
So many tablets I don’t know what it is about the tablet in general. Maybe it’s because it can seem more frivolous than a smartphone, but I have often thought I should be able to buy a cheapish one and have it to satisfy my relatively basic needs. Over the years, I have used, purchased, or reviewed tablets made by Samsung, Huawei, Xiaomi, Lenovo, Amazon, and a few others. The ones I’ve bought personally have been cheaper models, usually spotted in a sale, but absolutely none of them are in use today. Poor software, substandard screens, and creaky performance almost immediately put me off, and after using them for a bit, they’d get retired.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
