Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? It took me 20 minutes to make Amazon’s new Android tablet perfect By Andy Boxall Close Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I heartily recommended the Amazon Fire Max 11 in my recent review.
 In fact, I was so impressed by it that I wanted to continue using it during my daily life after my review period was up. The problem was the Amazon App Store — and to a lesser extent, the Fire OS software — as they stopped me from making the absolute most of this great device.
Adding Google to the Fire Max 11 A complete work machine at last Even more entertainment Unlocking its potential Could I modify the Fire Max 11 so it was useful enough to replace my Apple iPad Pro? Yes, and it was shockingly easy.
Adding Google to the Fire Max 11 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Fire Max 11 exceeded all my expectations when I reviewed it, and I was surprised to find I could even handle Fire OS, Amazon’s version of Android installed on it, provided all I wanted to do was shop in the Amazon Store, watch videos, and read books. But when it came to doing work and using Google apps, it obviously fell short of an Apple iPad and the Google Pixel Tablet.
I abandoned my iPad for an Android tablet and didn’t hate it I finally found an Android phone that makes me want to ditch my iPhone 9 new Apple products that could launch in 2023 This was frustrating because the Fire Max 11 is simply too good to waste. The most obvious solution was to add the Google Play Store, but this isn’t something Amazon or Google officially offer, and it’s definitely in a legal gray area, as the Amazon tablet isn’t a fully licensed Android device.
I decided to give it a try anyway. I changed the Silk Browser settings to accept apps from unknown sources and located the files required to install Google Play. There are four in all (Google Account Manager v7.1.2, Google Services Framework 10-6494331, Google Play Services for Android 11, and the Google Play Store), and I was mindful about where I sourced them, as none are provided by Google or Amazon and using files found online is always a security risk. If you’re curious about what exactly the process looks like, see our guide on how to install the Google Play Store on your Amazon Fire tablet.
It’s a little confusing to make sure that you download the right versions, and then to ensure they’re installed in the correct order, so it needs some concentration. But sourcing, downloading, and installing all four applications only took about 20 minutes. A quick restart and the online guides told me I should be ready to go.
Was this really all there was to it, I wondered.
A complete work machine at last Google Docs app Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends I fired up Google Play, signed in, and downloaded Google Docs. It all worked instantly without any fuss, and the Fire Max 11 was suddenly transformed from being almost suitable for my everyday life to perfectly fitting into my workflow. Pleased, I went for coffee, connected the tablet to my iPhone 14 Pro ’s hotspot, and typed the words you’re reading right now on it, all through Google Docs.
What’s more, you don’t actually need the hotspot to work, as unlike using Google Docs online through the Silk Browser, the app does not require an internet connection. You can happily work away without needing to use any data. I’m sure if I paid the $70–per year subscription to use Microsoft Word, it would be the same, but I personally have no need to use Word on any device I own— and I am sure I’m not the only one. I installed Gmail and Google Keep too.
It’s frustrating to have an otherwise excellent device that doesn’t let me work in the way I want to out of the box. But in a very short amount of time, with minimal effort and technical knowledge, the Fire Max 11 suddenly became a lot more useful to me. I understand why the Fire Max 11 doesn’t have Google apps on board out of the box, but seeing how well Docs, Gmail, and other apps work on it once they are installed only made the situation even more unfortunate.
Even more entertainment YouTube app on the Fire Max 11 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The other apps the Fire Max 11 was missing (for my everyday use) included Autotrader, Discovery+, and — of course — the YouTube app. Using YouTube through the Silk Browser isn’t a fun experience, as it’s a bit slow, discovery is even worse than in the app, and the controls are small and fiddly. If the app works, along with Google Docs, then the Fire Max 11 would be well on the way to being a true alternative to my iPad Pro.
The YouTube app installed without any problem, and it operates just as it does on my iPad. Even the gestures, which are missing from the web version, work — but muscle memory means I try to use them anyway. It really is the final piece of the puzzle, meaning the Fire Max 11 was just a handful of apps away from being a true iPad competitor for me personally, and all for just a fraction of the price.
You do have to compromise elsewhere, though; the 60Hz refresh rate screen that’s annoyingly dim is the biggest problem. However, with an app store that gives me all the extra apps I need on a daily basis, it’s something that could be forgiven when an 11-inch iPad Pro with the Magic Keyboard costs $1,098, and the Fire Max 11 with a keyboard costs $330.
Unlocking its potential Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Amazon Fire Max 11 is shockingly good when you buy it. Forget old Fire tablets you may have used – the Fire Max 11 is genuinely ahead of them in performance and ability, and the keyboard provides a brilliant typing experience. Forget bad Android tablet experiences, too, as the Fire Max 11 isn’t complicated enough to cause many problems. Plus, Amazon’s varied services are all pretty good, and the tablet is a brilliant way to enjoy them.
Not making full use of the Fire Max 11, though, is a crime, and unless you are embedded in Microsoft’s world already, you can’t quite do so without some tweaking. If you’ve already been tempted by the Fire Max 11, but were put off by the Amazon App Store, Fire OS, and the lack of Google Play, don’t be. Messing around with standard, preinstalled software can seem daunting and potentially cause problems too, but on mine so far, it doesn’t seem to have had any adverse effects. Instead, it has unlocked the Fire Max 11’s true potential, all in just a few minutes.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 I ditched my iPad Pro for an Android tablet — here’s why Who needs the Pixel Tablet? Amazon’s new Fire Max 11 looks great Surprise Apple sale brings big discounts on iPad and Apple Watch The 11-inch iPad Pro is a great tablet that Apple needs to kill Amazon Apple Apple iPad Features Mobile The iPhone’s operating system is many things, but perfect is not one of them. It’s been two years since I shifted to using an iPhone as my primary device, but I still use an Android as my secondary smartphone. And if I weren’t invested in the Apple ecosystem, I would have ditched my iPhone a long time ago.
I have been hoping desperately for iOS to get better at some things Android has been doing for years. For instance, I love scrolling through Twitter while watching a music video on YouTube. I can do this simultaneously on an Android thanks to multiwindow support, but iOS only offers picture-in-picture at best.
Mobile CES 2023 happened this week, and it’s usually when we see a bunch of interesting new tech — like Withing’s new health tracker that you pee on, and L’Oreal’s eyebrow printer for your face. Tablets aren’t a huge part of the show, but we still got some interesting options coming from TCL and Lenovo later this year.
Though Apple’s iPad is still the dominant choice in the tablet market, some of the coolest tablets at CES 2023 offer something that Apple doesn’t yet make itself. And that got me thinking; perhaps it’s time for Apple to consider branching out with its tablet lineup to do something new.
Paper-like displays are the way to go Mobile The iPhone 14 series just came out a few months ago, and while many are (or will be) enjoying everything that the iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Pro have to offer, we need to look ahead to the iPhone 15.
After all, rumors have already started, and technology is constantly evolving. We may have reached a peak in mobile tech, but hey — there are still some things I want to see in the next iPhone. When the iPhone 15 inevitably launches in September 2023, these are the six things I want to see.
Bye-bye, Lightning Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
