Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The new Apple Pencil is cheaper, gets USB-C, and is missing critical features By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Apple Rumors have suggested Apple may announce new iPads soon. Before that might happen, the company has surprised us all and announced a new Apple Pencil. Its placement in the rest of the Apple Pencil lineup could cause confusion, however.
The Apple Pencil (USB-C) — that’s the official name — is a stylus that works with any iPad with a USB-C port. This includes the iPad Pro 12.9-inch (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th generation), iPad Pro 11-inch (1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th generation), iPad Air (4th and 5th generation), iPad mini (6th generation), and iPad (10th generation).
Apple is set to release the USB-C version of the Apple Pencil in November. The new version will be the cheapest so far, priced at $79. This is $20 less than the first-generation model and $50 less than the 2nd generation Apple Pencil.
 Both of these Apple Pencils will remain on the market.
Paying less for the new Apple Pencil does have some drawbacks, as the USB-C version does not have all the features that were available on other models.
A new Apple Pencil with missing features Apple The Apple Pencil (USB-C) will allow you to write, sketch, and draw precisely. The Pencil has low latency, making it feel natural and responsive, just like using a traditional pencil on paper. The tilt sensitivity feature allows the creation of shading and other effects. Moreover, the new Apple Pencil (USB-C) supports hover capability on iPad Pro, enabling users to preview a mark before making it.
Like the second-generation Apple Pencil, the new Pencil attaches magnetically to the iPad’s side, making it easy to store. However, unlike the older version, this one doesn’t support wireless pairing and charging.
The USB-C version of the Apple Pencil also lacks the pressure sensitivity found in the first- and second-generation models. This means the amount of pressure you use on the tablet won’t be reflected in the line thickness. The double-tap feature found in the second-generation Apple Pencil is also missing. This feature allows you to quickly switch between tools by double-tapping the Pencil.
Apple Although the latest version of the Apple Pencil (USB-C) may lack some features compared to earlier versions, it does support a wide range of new iPad-based features that came with iPadOS 17.
 These features include new tools for both the native Freeform and Notes apps and a redesigned Lock Screen that enables expressive fonts and colors for personalization, among others.
The stylus features a sliding cap that reveals a USB-C port for charging. You will need a USB-C cable to charge or pair the Pencil, which is not included in the product box. The Apple Pencil (USB-C) is priced at $69 for those in education. For existing Apple Pencil (1st generation) users, Apple offers a $9 USB-C to Apple Pencil Adapter.
Undoubtedly, Apple anticipates attracting new users to the Apple Pencil due to the latest model’s more affordable price. However, with all three models bearing a striking resemblance to one another, it could be confusing to determine which Pencil is compatible with which tablet for some users. Fortunately, the Apple website offers guidance to help users identify the correct Apple Pencil for their device.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 The Apple Watch could get two amazing health features next year The USB-C Apple Pencil fixes an iPad problem I’ve had for years Apple’s new in-store device aimed at improving iPhone setup process You can already use the Apple Watch Series 9’s best new feature Apple Apple iPad Tech News Mobile At the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC 2023), Apple unveiled the latest version of iPadOS — iPadOS 17, equipped with new features and improvements. The update brings new ways of customizing the lock screen, interacting with widgets, and working on PDFs in the Notes app. Additionally, the Health app is now available on iPads for the first time.
The iPadOS 17 update, while perhaps featuring fewer new or updated features than previous versions, still brings several noteworthy changes and improvements. For instance, the Messages app has received some updates, as has FaceTime. Additionally, Safari and Password have seen some tweaks and improvements. In addition to these changes, the update includes new sticker packs, which can add fun and creativity to your conversations. While it may not be the most extensive update, iPadOS 17 still brings valuable and enjoyable improvements.
Mobile Yesterday's iPhone 15 event revolved solely around the iPhone 15/iPhone 15 Plus, iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max, and Apple Watch Series 9 (along with Apple Watch Ultra 2). As a result, no new iPads, Macs, or audio products were announced. This news isn't surprising, and the omissions suggest another Apple event may occur before the year's end, although this has yet to be confirmed and may not happen for a few weeks.
There are a lot of would-be Apple products that could make appearances in the coming weeks or months — but weren't shown at today's event.
New iPads Mobile When Apple introduced the Lightning connector in 2012, Apple executive Phil Schiller called it "the modern connector for the next decade." The decade has passed -- and Schiller's prophecy has been proven to be correct -- bringing unimaginable (at that time) changes to the iPhone.
But even after continuous reports on plans to relinquish it, Apple has held onto the Lighting port. Does the legacy continue with the iPhone 15, or will Apple switch to a more standard USB Type-C? You'll find out in this article.
Does the iPhone 15 have USB-C? iPhone 15 with USB-C port. Apple Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
