Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Hello Kitty: Island Adventure should be your next mobile game obsession By Giovanni Colantonio Close I challenge you to find a video game with a better elevator pitch than Hello Kitty: Island Adventure.
 Get this: It’s Animal Crossing but with Sanrio characters. You don’t need to see a single screenshot or watch a trailer to know if you’re in or out on that idea.
Island time New horizons Apple Arcade’s latest exclusive is the gaming platform’s best hope for a subscription mover yet. It’s an undeniably adorable adventure built to deliver on Apple’s promise of high-quality mobile gaming with no pesky ads or microtransactions — and for the most part, it delivers. Though it lacks key hooks that make the Animal Crossing formula work, Hello Kitty: Island Adventure makes up for some of its shortcomings with an infectiously positive attitude and a downright pleasant visual style that I can’t help but soak in. It’s a summer getaway in your pocket.
Island time It’s immediately clear what developer Sunblink is aiming to do upon firing up the adventure. After a cute introduction where Hello Kitty almost gets an entire airplane of cute animals killed (yes, really), players parachute onto an island alongside Sanrio staples like My Melody and Keroppi. Within moments of exploring that first hub area — complete with a furniture shop, clothing store, and a town hall where you can check your “island vibe” score — it’s pretty clear that Animal Crossing was a direct inspiration here. Even its crafting animation looks identical to the one in New Horizons.
Sunblink That loving homage often works to its advantage. Animal Crossing’s framework is a perfect fit for the world of Sanrio, stitching together the gentle nature of both properties. That’s baked right into its core loop, which is built around developing friendships with the island’s inhabitants by giving them gifts. Think Persona’s social system , but with less dating and more apple pie. It’s a smart way to leverage Sanrio’s excellent roster of characters, letting their varying personalities guide its wealth of quests and piecemeal progression. I’ve even found some new favorites in the dastardly cute Kuromi and the adventurous Chococat.
Though a lot of Animal Crossing staples are present here, there’s some expectation setting that’s required up front: It’s not a 1:1 copy of that series. You don’t have a house of your own to decorate (though you can customize cabins for visitors), there isn’t a 24-hour clock to plan by, and you won’t find yourself planting flowers or terraforming the island to your liking. You’re more a tourist visiting a pre-built Hello Kitty world than a resident of it.
Sunblink That may sound a little disappointing, and a few parts of it are. There isn’t too much furniture to collect at present, and clothing options feel equally limited. It doesn’t have the same level of self-expression that makes Animal Crossing such a joy to come back to every day. Instead, it’s more of a rigid Sanrio collect-a-thon with a tab full of checklists to complete.
That’s not inherently a drawback, especially considering that a mobile game calls for something a bit more compact in scope. I’ve still enjoyed my daily life as I catch weird bugs, fill up my museum with fish, cook every recipe I can, and take selfies with hidden Gudetamas scattered all over the islands. And I’m doing all that while basking in its warm visual style and breezy soundtrack. Every time I load it up, it feels like I’m taking a quick getaway from my job (which, ironically, is to write about this game).
New horizons A lot of those disappointments are easy to forgive if you’re willing to meet Island Adventure on its own terms instead of Animal Crossing’s. While that game is a major guiding factor, the team at Sunblink cites The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild as an equally important influence. That’s apparent, as Island Adventure is a pocket-sized open-world exploration game at its heart (complete with a wall-climbing stamina system and glider-esque balloons). When viewed through that lens, its flow makes a lot more sense.
Sunblink Upon landing on the island, my quest log starts filling up with missions that send me around a sizable open world. In addition to small quests that unlock features like a nature museum and a scuba mask that lets me explore underwater, there’s a series of mainline tasks that unravel the island’s grander mysteries. Those send me into shrine-like puzzle rooms to hunt for artifacts. None of those are particularly hard, simply having me move some boxes onto switches, but it’s a nice way to break up the life sim formula with some traditional adventure gameplay.
The genre fusion does come with a bit of friction at times. Quests are largely unlocked by reaching certain friendship levels with each islander. However, you can only give each one four gifts a day (unless using a rare item to refresh that). After my first few hours, a lot of my playtime became about trying to gather resources, turn those into the right gifts, and hope I’d get enough in one day to unlock a new quest or two. That process can be a little slow-going, making some daily check-ins feel a bit unfulfilling.
Sunblink Still, I got used to that gameplay flow after a bit. What I ultimately want from a life sim is some form of routine and ritual. That’s what I’ve gotten out of Island Adventure so far, checking in every day to prepare some gifts for my friends, find a few more collectibles, and prep cabins for visiting NPCs like Dear Daniel. In between those moments, I’m embarking on a proper adventure that gives me a more concrete endgame to work towards. I get to do all that while baking apple pies with Hello Kitty.
Hello Kitty: Island Adventure isn’t a full Animal Crossing replacement, but with a 30-hour story and new content to come over time, there’s still plenty of Sanrio cuteness to obsess over. Even with some tedious gameplay loops that string out its story content, I’m still guaranteed a smile every time I load it up. And with no pesky microtransactions to spoil the fun, it’s a welcome vacation from an at-times aggressive mobile game landscape (so long as you have an Apple Arcade subscription). Soak in those good island vibes.
Hello Kitty: Island Adventure is now available on iOS devices via Apple Arcade.
Editors' Recommendations Apple Arcade adds 20 new games today, including 4 originals Pocket Card Jockey director details the long road to its mobile port Finally, there’s a King of the Hill kart racing game Disney Melee Mania is the perfect way to introduce your kids to MOBAs Tetris Beat unlocks the rhythm of gaming’s most enduring classic Apple Features Gaming The second part of Fantasian will arrive on Apple Arcade this week on Friday, August 13. Along with Fantasian, Apple announced more games coming to the service soon, such as Zen Pinball Party and Zookeeper World.
Fantasian is a JRPG developed by Mistwalker, a studio filled with some of the biggest names in the industry. Hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of the Final Fantasy series, helmed this project along with veteran music composer Nobuo Uematsu. Fantasian is a turned-based RPG that utilizes hand-crafted dioramas for the scenery of the game. Over 160 dioramas were created to bring this unique style to this game.
Gaming Developer and publisher N3TWORK has released a trailer for Tetris Beat, an upcoming mobile game that fuses rhythm game elements and classic Tetris block-clearing gameplay. The game will be available on Apple Arcade and will feature "exclusive music" from a variety of artists, and new music will be added every month.
Tetris® Beat - Coming Soon to Apple Arcade! Gaming Apple Arcade just got a major overhaul. Late last week, Apple surprised subscribers by revealing its biggest expansion to the mobile gaming service yet. It added over 30 games, including long-awaited titles like Fantasian. On top of that, it brought some old classics along like Fruit Ninja and Monument Valley.
It was an overwhelming moment that acted as a sudden relaunch for the platform. First launched in 2019, the service had yet to make a lasting impact on the mobile gaming space. It seemed like it could go the way of the dodo eventually, but the new move shows that Apple is serious about making the service work.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
