Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile News Apple just announced the iPhone 15 Pro. Was it worth the wait? By Nadeem Sarwar Close Apple It’s the dawn of a new era for Apple smartphones, and heralding the change are Apple’s latest flagships, the iPhone 15 Pro and its 15 Pro Max variant. These two phones get a blazing-fast processor, a switch to more premium materials, and — most importantly— a USB-C port instead of the usual Lightning connector. The premium phones were updated alongside the standard iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Max , Apple Watch Series 9 , and Apple Watch Ultra 2.
Titanium is here, and it’s beautiful A17 Pro leads the silicon race Upgraded cameras iPhone 15 Pro price and availability It’s disappointing to see that Apple’s September 2023 event didn’t bring a major iPhone redesign, but this time it appears that Apple wants to focus more on internal upgrades than aesthetics.
Titanium is here, and it’s beautiful Color options for iPhone 15 Pro series Apple For the Pro models, Apple has ditched stainless steel in favor of titanium, which is lighter, but sturdier and more resistant to corrosive forces. The side rails are polished with a brushed finish and look stunning, while the overall build is IP68-certified for dust and water resistance.
How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS Apple has also trimmed the bezels, while the innards have been moved around to increase repairability, especially when it comes to screens. The mute switch is also gone, and we now get a mute button that can be assigned different shortcuts.
The screen is your usual Super Retina XDR OLED affair with a 120Hz adaptive refresh rate. The iPhone 15 Pro offers a 6.1‑inch (2556 x 1179 pixels) display, while the Max variant serves up a 6.7-inch (2796 x 1290 pixels) panel. The pill-shaped Dynamic Island is here to stay, and so is the impressive 2,000 nits of peak brightness.
A17 Pro leads the silicon race Apple Leading the wave of major upgrades is the A17 Pro processor ticking under that glass and metal chassis. This is the first smartphone system-on-a-chip (SoC) out there based on TSMC’s latest 3nm fabrication process.
To put it simply, the switch to a smaller 3nm fabrication process means higher silicon density, which ultimately delivers a significant hike in raw performance and energy efficiency. The A17 Pro features two performance cores and four efficiency cores, while the Neural Engine is twice as fast.
The upgraded 6-core GPU is 20% faster and also supports hardware-accelerated ray tracing to boost light and shadow reflections in graphics-intensive tasks. Apple says the A17 Pro’s raw firepower allows console-grade games like The Division: Resurgence and Resident Evil: Village to run on the iPhone 15 Pro.
Interestingly, the USB-C port on the iPhone 15 Pro models embraces the USB 3.0 standard, promising data transfer rates of up to 10 gigabits per second.
Upgraded cameras Apple In terms of cameras, Apple isn’t making any major upgrades when it comes to the megapixel figures, but has focused on making sensor improvements and software-side enhancements. The triple camera array includes a 48-megapixel optically stabilized primary snapper and a 12-megapixel sensor for ultrawide photography.
The big upgrade, however, is reserved for the zoom shooter. Instead of the 12-megapixel telephoto shooter on the iPhone 14 Pro , the iPhone 15 Pro Max is equipped with a 12-megapixel zoom camera that can deliver 5x optical zoom, up from the peak 3x optical and 15x digital zoom output we had before. Unfortunately that improvement is limited to the 15 Pro Max, though — for whatever reason (probably size concerns) you get the same old 3x optical zoom on the standard-sized 15 Pro.
Apple says it has also merged the autofocus and optical stabilization parts into a single 3D stack that can perform 10,000 micro-adjustments per second, significantly higher than on the iPhone 14 Pro.
 The result is more stable videos and sharper stills, even if your hands are shaky.
Apple Another cool trick is support for capturing Spatial Videos, which essentially combines footage from two lenses to create juxtaposed 3D videos ideal for viewing on the Apple Vision Pro headset. It can also record and natively save ProRes videos ( 4K resolution at 60 frames per second) on an external storage device. Finally, the ultrawide camera now supports macro photography.
Apple says it has also improved the night mode performance and has also given a boost to the HDR output. Another convenience for content creators is that the iPhone 15 Pro duo can capture and seamlessly transfer 48MP ProRAW images to Mac hardware.
iPhone 15 Pro price and availability YouTube / Apple The iPhone 15 Pro and its Max variant come in titanium, white titanium, blue titanium, and natural titanium colors. Storage options on the table are 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, and 1TB. The iPhone 15 Pro starts at $999 for 128GB of storage, while the iPhone 15 Pro Max will set you back $1,199 and defaults to 256GB for its base storage.
Preorders for the iPhone 15 Pro pair begin September 15, while general availability commences on September 22 in the U.S. and a bunch of other markets.
Overall, the iPhone 15 Pro seems like an upgrade that banks more on the firepower of a 3nm chip and a modestly upgraded zoom camera rather than any splashy generation-over-generation changes. It’s not the most thrilling upgrade we’ve ever seen, and a little extra battery life would’ve been a nice touch, but it’s likely to be an important one nonetheless.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade The iPhone is getting out of control This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Tech News Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
