Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides How to reset your iPhone, restart it, and wipe it clean By Christine Romero-Chan and Simon Hill Close If you’re planning on upgrading to the latest iPhone, such as the iPhone 15 or iPhone 15 Pro , you may need to reset your old phone before getting rid of it or giving it away. As iPhone users, we’ve learned various tips and tricks over the years, but it’s always helpful to review the basics. One crucial aspect every iPhone user should know is how to reset their device. The process used to be the same for all models, but since the introduction of the iPhone X, which features Face ID and no Home button, there have been some changes.
The difference between a soft reset, a force restart, and a factory reset How to soft reset your iPhone How to force restart your iPhone Force restart for iPhone 8 and later Force restart for iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus Force restart for iPhone 6S or earlier and iPhone SE (2016) What to do if a restart doesn’t work What to do if a restart doesn’t work for your iPhone 8 and later What to do if a restart doesn’t work for the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus What to do if a restart doesn’t work for iPhone 6S or earlier and iPhone SE (2016) Difficulty Duration What You Need An iPhone If you upgraded from an older iPhone model to one of the latest models, but have never needed to reset it, you may be at a loss as to how to begin the process.
We explain how to reset your iPhone, when you should restart it, and how to force a restart when your phone is not responding. We also lay out the differences between a restart, a soft reset, and a factory reset.
DIgital Trends The difference between a soft reset, a force restart, and a factory reset Restarting your iPhone using the software option — a soft reset — will not result in the loss of any data. The same is true of a force restart, which allows you to use the hardware keys to restart your iPhone when the touchscreen isn’t responsive or your apps start acting weird. A factory reset is a completely different beast. It reverts your iPhone to its original state when it first came out of the box: It wipes all content, settings, and personal information from the device.
We recommend factory resetting your iPhone only as a last resort if you’re having issues that you can’t solve, but it should also be used when you’re selling or trading in your iPhone , giving it to a friend, or if the phone has been lost or stolen. It’s not necessarily permanent, since you can use a backup to restore all your phone's data and settings. If you need to perform a factory reset, read our guide on how to factory reset an iPhone , which also includes a breakdown of the reset options found in Settings > General > Reset.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends How to soft reset your iPhone The easiest way to soft reset your iPhone is by turning it off. This method is often called a “soft reset” because, unlike a factory reset, you will not lose any data, and it will not delete anything from your phone. Consider a soft reset when your phone is running slowly, if an app won't launch or work properly, or if you are experiencing a minor problem but your iPhone is still responsive. Apple changed how to perform a soft reset on the X, 11, 12,13, and 14 series iPhones, where a soft reset requires you to hold down two buttons. All you’re doing here is turning your phone off.
Step 1: Press and hold the Sleep/wake button and the Lower volume button. On the iPhone X and later models, you’ll find the sleep/wake button on the right side of the phone.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Step 2: Rest your finger on the Slide to power off slider that appears, then swipe to the right.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen Step 3: Once there is nothing on the screen and it goes black, press and hold the Sleep/wake button again until the Apple logo appears to turn it back on.
If you’re using an iPhone SE or an iPhone 8 or earlier, you can shut down your iPhone simply by holding down the Sleep/wake button until the slider appears.
Alternatively, provided you have iOS 11 or later installed, you can go to Settings > General and scroll to the bottom, where you’ll find the Shut down button. When you tap Shut down , you will see the Slide to power off slider. You can then proceed to step 2 above.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to force restart your iPhone Another way to reset your iPhone is to do what Apple officially calls a “force restart.” Once again, no important data will be lost. A force restart is recommended when your iPhone is completely unresponsive. For example, your iPhone screen turns black (despite it being powered on), the screen freezes, or your iPhone encounters an issue during startup. The exact way to perform a force restart depends on which iPhone model you own.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Force restart for iPhone 8 and later The following steps will work for the iPhone 8, iPhone SE (2nd generation and later), iPhone X , iPhone XS , iPhone 11 , iPhone 12 , iPhone 13 , and iPhone 14 series.
Step 1: Press and quickly release the Volume up button.
Step 2: Press and quickly release the Volume down button.
Step 3: Press and hold the Sleep/wake button until you see the Apple logo.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Digital Trends Force restart for iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus Press and hold the Sleep/wake and Volume down buttons until the Apple logo appears Image used with permission by copyright holder Force restart for iPhone 6S or earlier and iPhone SE (2016) Press and hold the Sleep/wake and Home buttons together until the Apple logo appears.
Apple What to do if a restart doesn’t work If your phone is unresponsive or failing, you can try entering recovery mode , which should let you update or restore your phone. However, if you can’t get past the Apple logo or if your phone just won’t respond, there is another option.
While this may be your only option to save your phone, this procedure will delete everything you previously had on your phone. Hopefully, you followed our guide on how to back up your iPhone so you can recover your data after you erase your iPhone. Here’s how to enter recovery mode.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What to do if a restart doesn’t work for your iPhone 8 and later Step 1: Connect your iPhone to your computer and open iTunes. If you’re on a Mac with macOS Catalina or later, open a Finder window.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Press and quickly release the Volume up button.
Step 3: Press and quickly release the Volume down button.
Step 4: Press and hold the Sleep/wake button until you see the recovery mode screen appear.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: In iTunes or Finder on your computer, choose to update or restore your device to begin resetting your iPhone.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends What to do if a restart doesn’t work for the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus Step 1: Connect your iPhone to your computer and open iTunes. If you’re on a Mac with macOS Catalina or later, open a Finder window.
Step 2: Press and hold down the Sleep/wake button and the Volume down button at the same time until you see the recovery mode screen appear.
Step 3: In iTunes or Finder on your computer, choose to Update or Restore your device to begin resetting your iPhone.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What to do if a restart doesn’t work for iPhone 6S or earlier and iPhone SE (2016) Step 1: Connect your iPhone to your computer and open iTunes. If you’re on a Mac with macOS Catalina or later, open a Finder window.
Step 2: Press the Sleep/wake button + Home button simultaneously until you see the recovery mode screen appear.
Step 3: In iTunes or Finder on your computer, choose to Update or Restore your device to begin resetting your iPhone.
As you can see, there are different ways to go about rebooting your iPhone if you're having issues or just want to give it a restart every now and then. While the process has changed depending on the model of iPhone that you have, it's all still relatively simple. We've laid out the different methods for you here, but always try a soft reset or a forced restart first — the update/restore method is basically when all else fails.
Editors' Note: This article was checked on September 14, 2023, and DT confirmed that the steps and information included remain accurate.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The iPhone is getting out of control One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected Apple Apple iPhone How-To Guides Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile Duolingo is a top-rated language-learning app known for its unique approach to learning. Unlike similar solutions, Duolingo makes learning fun and engaging by turning each step into a game. Whether using the app on your iPhone or Android, you can choose from over 30 languages to learn. Adding another language to your account is easy once you are ready to move on to the next one.
Mobile I’ve been using an iPhone ever since 2008, starting with the original and then every generation since. For several years, the iPhone was only capable of SMS texting, with MMS support arriving with iOS 3 in 2009.
But in 2011, Apple created something new: iMessage. It first arrived on iOS and then went to the Mac in 2012 to replace iChat. iMessage is basically an instant messaging service that is exclusive to all Apple products: iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, and Mac. You can send text, images and video, documents, rich preview links, stickers, and more between one another. You can also see if a message is delivered, send read receipts (if you want), and everything is encrypted. With iOS 16, you can even edit and unsend messages within a certain time frame.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
