Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to share your location on your iPhone or iPad By Carlos Vega Close One of the easiest things to do with your iPhone or iPad is to share your location with family and friends. Maybe you want to show someone a great vacation spot. Perhaps you’re at a party and want a friend to join you. Whatever the reason, we show you how to share your location on an iPhone or iPad using native and third-party tools.
Turn Location Services on Use the Messages app Use the Contacts app Use the Maps app Use Google Maps Difficulty Duration What You Need Apple iPhone or iPad If you want to share your location on a more permanent basis, check out our guide on using the iOS Find My app , which is available on iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch, and via most modern web browsers.
Turn Location Services on First, let’s verify that Location Services is turned on. You may have previously skipped this step while setting up your iPhone, or maybe you turned it off to conserve the battery. Once you turn it on, you’ll be able to see every installed app that can access your location.
Step 1: Tap to open the Settings app.
Step 2: Scroll down and tap Privacy.
Step 3: Tap Location Services.
Step 4: Tap the Toggle next to Location Services to turn this feature on if it isn’t already.
Use the Messages app If you’re having a conversation with a friend, coworker, or family member in Messages, you can share your current location. This can be extremely helpful if you are meeting someone in person and need to show them where you are.
Step 1: Tap to open the Messages app.
Step 2: Tap to open an iMessage thread.
Step 3: Tap anywhere next to the contact displayed at the top and then tap the info icon (i).
Step 4: Select one of two options: Send My Current Location : This sends an iMessage with a thumbnail map dotted with a pin showing your present location.
Share My Location : This does not send an iMessage. Instead, your location is visible within the Find My app. You can choose to share for one hour, until the end of the day, or indefinitely.
Use the Contacts app If you don’t already have a message thread started with a contact, this is an excellent way to share your location. Here’s how: Step 1: Tap to open the Contacts app.
Step 2: Select the contact with whom you want to share your location.
Step 3: Tap Share My Location toward the bottom.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Select one of three options on the pop-up menu, as shown below.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Use the Maps app The days of “are you here yet?” are over. Apple Maps lets you share your location so that others can follow your travel progress. Here’s how: Step 1: Tap to open the Maps app.
Step 2: Tap the blue dot that indicates your device’s location.
Step 3: Tap the blue Share My Location button on the pop-up menu.
Step 4: Select a method to share your location. These include Messages, Mail, AirDrop, and so on. You may need to tap the More button for additional sharing options.
Bonus tip: Already following travel directions in Maps? Swipe up on the bottom of the screen and select Share ETA , then choose a contact to share your ETA with during your drive. Once you arrive at your destination, your location will stop broadcasting.
Use Google Maps Like Apple Maps, Google Maps allows you to share your location with others so they can see your travel progress. Here’s how: Step 1: Tap to open Google Maps.
Step 2: Tap the blue dot that indicates your device’s location.
Step 3: Tap Share Your Location listed on the pop-up menu.
Step 4: Tap a Google-related contact on the pop-up menu (Google Maps, Gmail, etc.), or tap More Options to select a contact or app via the typical iOS pop-up menu.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 Pro Max screen protectors in 2023 The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes Apple How-To Apple How-To Guides Mobile If you have blocked a phone number on your iPhone and wish to unblock it, you can easily do so in just a few steps. This can be helpful if you've accidentally blocked a number you didn't mean to, have made up with an ex, made good with a friend you were having a dispute with, or in other circumstances.
Whether you have an iPhone 15, iPhone 15 Pro, or an older version, the steps to unblock a number are the same.
Mobile Apple iPhone 14 Pro (left) and iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends When Apple launched the original iPhone in 2007, it was as easy as could be — it was just the iPhone. There was only one model, and when you said you wanted an iPhone, the sales rep would know which one you meant ... because that was all there was.
Mobile Updated from an older iPhone to the new iPhone 15? You may have noticed that your notifications have changed. Where once they sat nestled at the top, now, they appear at the bottom, stacked atop one another. It's a relatively small change, but an important one, as it dramatically changes how and where you find your notifications.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
