Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: what’s actually different? By Jesse Hollington Close Digital Trends This year’s iPhone 15 lineup has arrived with some exciting changes for Apple’s flagship Pro models. Featuring a new high-grade titanium frame, a new A17 Pro chip that’s more powerful than ever, and some camera improvements that go beyond the usual year-over-year updates, it’s an interesting year for the iPhone 15 Pro models.
iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: specs iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: design iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: display iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: performance and battery iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: cameras iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: software and updates iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: special features iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: price and availability Overall winner: iPhone 15 Pro Max What’s more unusual is that while each year’s pair of iPhone Pro models are usually identical in nearly every way except size, Apple has packed some extra capabilities into its larger 6.7-inch iPhone 15 Pro Max this time around. It’s the first time since the 2020 iPhone 12 Pro Max that there’s been more of an incentive to consider the larger model than just the bigger screen and battery. Let’s dive in and see what the actual differences are between Apple’s two flagships.
iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: specs iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 15 Pro Max Size 146.6 x 70.6 x 8.25mm (5.77 x 2.78 x 0.32 inches) 159.9 x 76.7 x 8.25 mm (6.29 x 3.02 x 0.32 inches) Weight 187 grams (6.60 ounces) 221 grams (7.81 ounces) Screen 6.1-inch always-on Super Retina XDR OLED with 120Hz ProMotion 6.7-inch always-on Super Retina XDR OLED with 120Hz ProMotion Screen resolution 2556 x 1179 pixels at 460 pixels-per-inch 2796 x 1290 pixels at 460 pixels-per-inch Operating system iOS 17 iOS 17 Storage 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB 256GB, 512GB, 1TB MicroSD card slot No No Tap-to-pay services Apple Pay Apple Pay Processor Apple A17 Pro Apple A17 Pro Camera Rear: 48-megapixel (MP) main camera (wide), 12MP Ultrawide, 12MP 3X telephoto, LiDAR Scanner Front: 12MP TrueDepth Rear: 48-megapixel (MP) main camera (wide), 12MP Ultrawide, 12MP 5X telephoto, LiDAR Scanner Front: 12MP TrueDepth Video 4K at 24/25/30/60 frames per second (fps) 1080p HD at 25/30/60 fps HDR video with Dolby Vision up to 4K at 60fps Slow motion 1080p at 120/240 fps ProRes video recording up to 4K at 60fps with external recording Macro video recording 4K at 24/25/30/60 frames per second (fps) 1080p HD at 25/30/60 fps HDR video with Dolby Vision up to 4K at 60fps Slow motion 1080p at 120/240 fps ProRes video recording up to 4K at 60fps with external recording Macro video recording Cellular 5G mmWave (U.S. models only), 5G (sub-6GHz), Dual eSIM with Physical SIM on non-U.S. models only.
5G mmWave (U.S. models only), 5G (sub-6GHz), Dual eSIM with Physical SIM on non-U.S. models only.
Bluetooth version Bluetooth 5.3 Bluetooth 5.3 Ports USB-C USB-C Water resistance IP68 IP68 Battery Video playback: 20 to 23 hours Audio playback: 75 hours 20W fast charging Video playback: 25 to 29 hours Audio playback: 95 hours 20W fast charging App marketplace App Store App Store Network support All major carriers All major carriers Colors Natural Titanium, Blue Titanium, White Titanium, Black Titanium Natural Titanium, Blue Titanium, White Titanium, Black Titanium Price Starting at $999 Starting at $1,199 It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: design Joe Maring / Digital Trends On the design front, the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are nearly identical in every meaningful way except for their noticeable size difference. This year, Apple has replaced its stainless steel frame with an elegant brushed titanium finish that adds a different touch of class. It’s a more matte look and better matches the textured glass back, which is basically the same material that Apple has used on its iPhone Pro models for the past several years.
The frame and back are color-matched as usual, although the choice of colors more closely matches the new material theme. Your choices are Natural Titanium, Blue Titanium, White Titanium, and Black Titanium. Did we mention that titanium is a big deal for Apple this year? Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends However, there’s more to the use of titanium than just looks. The switch has allowed the iPhone 15 Pro models to shed some weight; both models drop 19 grams over their respective predecessors. In practical terms, that makes the iPhone 15 Pro Max closer in weight to last year’s iPhone 14 Pro — and it’s a welcome change for those who have shied away from the larger model purely due to its weight.
The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max also get narrower bezels around the screen and rounded edges on the front and back glass that make it more comfortable to hold without a case. A new Action button also replaces the traditional ring/silent switch on the side. Plus, Apple finally switched out its proprietary Lightning port for a more standard USB-C port.
These changes come equally to the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max, along with the same IP68 dust and water resistance as prior models , which rates them for a maximum depth of 6 meters of water for up to 30 minutes.
Nevertheless, we think the iPhone 15 Pro Max gets a slight edge over its smaller sibling this year. A larger screen is always nice, but with prior 6.7-inch iPhone Pro models, the trade-off was dealing with a heftier phone. The iPhone 14 Pro Max was among the heaviest in its class, outweighing even Samsung’s Galaxy S23 Ultra.
 Thanks to Apple’s change in materials, you can now get the larger screen in a lighter and more manageable package.
Winner: iPhone 15 Pro Max iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: display Joe Maring / Digital Trends The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max feature the same always-on Super Retina XDR Display with Apple’s variable refresh rate ProMotion technology. This allows the iPhone to dynamically adjust the refresh rate from 10Hz to 120Hz, giving you smooth scrolling and fast-paced action when you need it and saving power when you don’t. The screens also drop to 1Hz when in always-on mode.
If you’re coming from an iPhone 14 Pro model, you won’t find any surprises here; the displays appear identical to what Apple used last year. However, that’s not a bad thing; Apple’s Super Retina XDR Display remains one of the best screens you’ll find on any smartphone today, with vibrant and balanced colors, a buttery smooth refresh rate, and an always-on display that nothing else can match.
Once again, the obvious difference between the two iPhone 15 Pro models is the size, but Apple has made sure that the resolution has been proportionally adjusted for the larger screen so that both iPhones offer the same crispness and clarity. That means a 2,556 x 1,179-pixel screen for the 6.1-inch iPhone 15 Pro and 2,796 x 1,290 pixels for the 6.7-inch display on the iPhone 15 Pro Max. That works out to 460 pixels per inch (ppi) for both.
The displays on the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max can also both reach 2,000 nits of outdoor brightness and 1,600 nits of peak brightness, once again mirroring the specs of last year’s iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max.
While opting for the iPhone 15 Pro Max will get you a more expansive canvas to work on, that’s the only display advantage it has over the iPhone 15 Pro. Since not everyone needs a larger screen, we’re calling this one a tie.
Winner: Tie iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: performance and battery Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Although Apple is now reserving its most powerful silicon for its iPhone Pro models. This year, that’s the A17 Pro — a new generation of silicon that drops Apple’s “Bionic” branding and promises to turn the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max into gaming powerhouses.
The A17 Pro has a six-core CPU that’s made up of two high-performance cores and four high-efficiency cores, plus Apple’s 16-core Neural Engine and a new six-core GPU. On paper, that’s only one more core than prior A-series chips, but Apple says it’s also been significantly redesigned with the biggest changes ever made to an Apple GPU, and it’s been done with a sharp focus on improving gaming performance.
For example, the A17 Pro now features hardware-accelerated ray tracing and Metal effect upscaling that brings in the Neural Engine to produce the highest-quality graphics you’ve ever seen on a smartphone. The changes are significant enough that mainstream developers will soon bring actual console games to the iPhone 15 Pro , including Resident Evil Village , Tom Clancy’s The Division Resurgence , and Ubisoft’s Assassin’s Creed Mirage.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends However, as incredibly powerful as the new A17 Pro chip is, this is all about gaming performance. You won’t see any noticeable speed improvements over the iPhone 14 Pro models in day-to-day use, but it’s hard to imagine how it could be any faster at everyday tasks like opening apps and scrolling through webpages and social media feeds since Apple’s iPhones have offered near-instantaneous response times for years.
You also won’t get any performance advantages from the iPhone 15 Pro Max over its smaller counterpart, as both Pro models have the same A17 Pro chip and pack in the same amount of RAM, which Apple has upped this year to 8GB, compared to 6GB in the iPhone 14 Pro models. If you’re a gamer, you’ll probably want the larger display, but games will run just as smoothly on the iPhone 15 Pro as on the iPhone 15 Pro Max.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Still, there’s one area in which the iPhone 15 Pro Max wins handily, and that’s battery life. With everything else being equal, a larger battery means longer run times, and the only thing the iPhone 15 Pro Max has that draws more power than its smaller counterpart is the larger screen — and that’s not enough to make up for that much bigger cell inside the 6.7-inch model. While your actual mileage will vary, especially when it comes to gaming, Apple promises 5 to 6 more hours of watching videos and 20 more hours of listening to audio on the iPhone 15 Pro Max. Those numbers are on par with last year’s iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max, although iOS 17 seems to have pulled run times down a bit across the board.
Sadly, Apple still doesn’t offer any faster charging speeds. Wired charging is in the 20-watt range, while wireless operates at 15W if you have a MagSafe or a Qi2-compatible charger or at 7.5W with a standard Qi charger. Technically, the iPhone 15 Pro Max likely draws more power over a wired connection — up to 27W if past models are any indication — but that doesn’t give it faster charging times as it also has a larger battery, so it needs more power just to maintain the same charging speed as the iPhone 15 Pro.
Even though the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max offer the same performance and charging speeds, the larger battery in the iPhone 15 Pro Max gives it a solid win.
Winner: iPhone 15 Pro Max iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: cameras Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Where this year’s iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max diverge the most is in the camera systems, as Apple has once again bolstered the optical zoom only on its larger model, giving the iPhone 15 Pro Max more range than the iPhone 15 Pro.
The only other time this happened was in 2020 with the iPhone 12 lineup, when the iPhone 12 Pro retained the 2x telephoto lens from its predecessor, while the iPhone 12 Pro Max got a bump to 2.5x along with a larger sensor.
That year, the iPhone 12 Pro Max had a clear photography advantage over the 6.1-inch model, and this year, Apple is repeating that by giving the iPhone 15 Pro Max a 5x optical zoom for its telephoto lens. By comparison, the iPhone 15 Pro retains the same 3x lens that’s been standard since the iPhone 13 Pro.
The reason for the difference — both in 2020 and now — seems to be a matter of physics. The smaller 6.1-inch iPhone 12 Pro didn’t have the room for the larger sensor Apple wanted to put in three years ago, and Apple’s unique new 5x tetra-prism lens won’t fit into the 6.1-inch iPhone 15 Pro.
As it is, Apple has rearranged the camera layout on the iPhone 15 Pro Max to make room for the new camera system. The telephoto lens, which has been in the top corner since the three-camera design was introduced in 2019, now moves to the right-center position, below the flash. For consistency, Apple has done the same with the iPhone 15 Pro.
Apple The 5x lens on the iPhone 15 Pro Max also maintains the same f/2.8 aperture as the 3x on the iPhone 15 Pro and prior models, which is impressive with the increased focal length. By comparison, the Google Pixel 8 Pro , which offers the same 5x optical zoom, comes in at the same f/2.8, and Samsung’s Galaxy S23 Ultra has a much narrower f/4.9 aperture (albeit with a 10x optical zoom). This means that the iPhone 15 Pro Max will be able to capture just as much light through its telephoto lens as the iPhone 15 Pro, putting it on equal footing for lowlight photography. In fact, it’s one of the best 5x cameras we’ve seen on any smartphone, and the photos captured through it are virtually indistinguishable in quality from those taken with the main lens.
Other changes that come to both iPhone 15 Pro models are a new 24-megapixel (MP) “super high resolution” capture mode from the main sensor, which retains the 48MP sensor from last year, plus a new Smart HDR 5 algorithm that promises greater dynamic range and more true-to-life photos, plus the ability to capture depth information for every photo you take, even when Portrait Mode isn’t on. This lets you turn any shot into a portrait shot.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends The lenses also gain a nanoscale coating to help reduce lens flare, which helps quite a bit with night shots. Both iPhones can also still capture 12MP photos with a 2x optical zoom, thanks to the 48MP sensor, which means you’re not losing out on a mid-range zoom by opting for the 5x lens on the iPhone 15 Pro Max.
In practical terms, all these upgrades produce incredible-looking photos with very balanced colors that look even more realistic, natural, and fun than they did on the iPhone 14 Pro models. The low light performance is impressive, especially on the 5x lens of the iPhone 15 Pro Max, but other than that increased optical zoom factor, you’ll find that the iPhone 15 Pro delivers the same fantastic image quality.
However, while both iPhone 15 Pro models have great camera systems, the uncompromising 5x optical zoom on the iPhone 15 Pro Max is by far the most compelling reason to opt for the larger model — and if you travel a lot with your iPhone, you’ll be glad you did, as the higher magnification makes a big difference in providing more unique photo opportunities.
Winner: iPhone 15 Pro Max iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: software and updates Joe Maring / Digital Trends Unsurprisingly, the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max ship with the same iOS 17 release that’s now available for older models and should remain in lockstep for updates for the next several years.
This puts both iPhone 15 Pro models on equal footing from a software perspective, and the iOS 17 user experience on Apple’s newest iPhone models should be virtually identical to what other recent models are getting, except for obvious hardware-dependent features like the 5x zoom and the new Action button. Even Apple’s Roadside Assistance via Satellite, which was announced as part of the iPhone 15 unveiling, will be making its way to the iPhone 14 lineup since they have the same satellite capabilities.
Apple doesn’t make specific update promises, but it has a long track record of providing at least five years of updates for its iPhones. This means we can safely expect the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max to take us to at least iOS 22.
Winner: Tie iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: special features Joe Maring / Digital Trends Although the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max get a few perks over their non-Pro counterparts, neither one has any advantage over the other in this area.
For example, Apple has (finally) switched its entire lineup over to USB-C, and with that, the iPhone 15 Pro models get faster 10Gbps USB 3 data transfer speeds. With those faster speeds, the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max will also be able to capture 4K ProRes video at 60 frames per second (fps) to external storage devices; prior models are limited to 4K/30fps as they can only use internal storage. Apple is also adding the ability for the iPhone 15 Pro to capture Spatial Videos for Apple’s new Vision Pro headset when it launches next year.
iPhone 15 Pro (left) and iPhone 14 Pro Max (right) Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Both iPhone 15 Pro models also include a new Action button that replaces the ring/silent switch used on Apple’s iPhones since the very first model came out. It’s a customizable button that can put your iPhone in silent mode and do much more, including launching custom routines in Apple’s Shortcuts app. It’s arguably the most powerful user interface feature to come to an iPhone in years; you’re sadly limited to assigning it to only a single function, but with clever use of Shortcuts, the sky’s the limit when it comes to what you can do with it.
All of these special features are (or will be) available equally on the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max, so this one is a dead heat.
Winner: Tie iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro Max: price and availability Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The iPhone 15 Pro starts at $999 for the base 128GB version, with 256GB, 512GB, and 1TB capacities available in $100/128GB increments, up to $1,499 for the highest capacity.
The iPhone 15 Pro Max has a slightly higher starting price this year since Apple has eliminated the 128GB entry-level capacity, putting the base price at $1,199 for the 256GB version. As with the iPhone 15 Pro, it moves up in the same $100/128GB steps, with 512GB and 1TB models available for $1,399 and $1,599, respectively.
Both models are available in Natural Titanium, Blue Titanium, White Titanium, and Black Titanium and can be purchased from Apple, your carrier, and most other major retailers that sell Apple products.
Overall winner: iPhone 15 Pro Max Joe Maring / Digital Trends Most years, the only reason to opt for an iPhone Pro Max is to get a larger screen and more battery life. However, this time around, the iPhone 15 Pro Max pulls out farther ahead of its little sibling thanks to an improved 5x optical zoom on its telephoto lens that has no downside. Plus, the lighter titanium construction means you’ll need to make one less compromise to get the larger screen.
However, the catch is that there’s now a more significant $200 price gap between the iPhone 15 Pro and the iPhone 15 Pro Max at the entry-level. The cost of the iPhone 15 Pro Max technically hasn’t increased from last year, as that price gets you 256GB; there’s simply no longer a more affordable 128GB model.
Even so, the iPhone 15 Pro is a very strong runner-up and a solid buy if you’re not a photography enthusiast and don’t really care about the larger screen and battery. You’ll get a great camera system with the same A17 Pro chip, a stunning 120Hz always-on display, and a titanium frame that makes it the lightest iPhone Pro ever.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The iPhone is getting out of control One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Versus Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile I’ve been using an iPhone ever since 2008, starting with the original and then every generation since. For several years, the iPhone was only capable of SMS texting, with MMS support arriving with iOS 3 in 2009.
But in 2011, Apple created something new: iMessage. It first arrived on iOS and then went to the Mac in 2012 to replace iChat. iMessage is basically an instant messaging service that is exclusive to all Apple products: iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, and Mac. You can send text, images and video, documents, rich preview links, stickers, and more between one another. You can also see if a message is delivered, send read receipts (if you want), and everything is encrypted. With iOS 16, you can even edit and unsend messages within a certain time frame.
Mobile iOS 17 is the latest version of Apple's mobile operating software, and as usual, it's brought with it plenty of new features and changes to get excited about. While not the biggest update around (it's telling when one of the major changes mentioned is the ability to send your contact information by AirDrop), iOS 17 is still worth paying attention to and getting if you have a compatible iPhone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
