Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides These 5 iPhone 15 problems are annoying. Here’s how to fix them By Christine Romero-Chan Close Apple iPhone 15 Plus (left) and Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple launched the iPhone 15 lineup in September, and it seems to have been a big hit among the public. The standard iPhone 15 is one of the biggest upgrades for the regular model in quite some time, and the iPhone 15 Pro Max now has one of the best camera systems available on a smartphone today.
iPhone 15 overheating issues Titanium durability concerns Burn-in issues with the iPhone 15 Pro Max Poor battery life Camera launching with a black screen The iPhone 15 series is great but not perfect But not everything in the Apple garden has been rosy. There have been news reports of some problems in the iPhone 15 lineup, like overheating and durability problems, that make people wary. Don’t fret! No matter what the problem is, there is typically a solution.
We’ve rounded up some of the more common iPhone 15 problems here and offer advice on what you can do to fix them.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones iPhone 15 overheating issues Joe Maring / Digital Trends One of the biggest issues with the iPhone 15 launch has been overheating.
 However, this problem was originally reported around the release of the phone, when a lot of people were receiving their new iPhones and setting them up — that’s when most of the overheating issues occurred.
It’s pretty typical for a new phone to heat up more than usual when you’re getting everything set up and transferred over. When I got my iPhone 15 Pro and began the restoration process, which involves over 300GB of data, my device got very hot and was still getting warm over the next few days as everything was indexing.
However, the fix for this is pretty easy. Rebooting is the default solution for a lot of technical issues, and it usually works. Another quick fix involves enabling auto-brightness so it’s not always on maximum brightness and instead adjusts to ambient light. Other things that could help are turning off Bluetooth unless you need it, quitting apps that use location services, turning off Wi-Fi and AirDrop, or turning on airplane or Low Power mode.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends You might also be using a case on your phone, which can trap excess heat. Removing it temporarily may help it cool down.
I also experienced my iPhone 15 Pro getting very hot in my hand while using it in direct sunlight. If you are outside often in sunny conditions, try to keep the iPhone out of direct sunlight, which would increase the air temperature and, as a result, the heat generated by your phone from normal processes.
Lastly, make sure you’re running the latest version of iOS. Apple was aware of the overheating issue and released a software update with iOS 17.0.3 , which “addresses an issue that may cause iPhone to run warmer than expected.” If all of that still doesn’t help with the overheating issue, you might just want to give your phone (and yourself) a short break.
Titanium durability concerns Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends For the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max, Apple made a change to the material used in the frame, going from stainless steel to brushed titanium. This change, along with a much more rounded design on the edges, means the iPhone 15 Pro is more lightweight and ergonomic.
However, as it turns out, the titanium design is actually not as durable as the previous stainless steel, as demonstrated in various drop tests over YouTube and elsewhere on the internet.
According to 9to5Mac , the flat design of the stainless steel frame on the iPhone 14 Pro could absorb the impact from a drop, which is a trait of the material. Titanium, however, is more rigid, so any impact needs to be dispersed to other areas on the device, which in this case would mean the front and back glass via spiderweb cracking.
Another issue with the titanium frame that people have noted was what appears to be “discoloration” from fingers touching the frame. This goes away with a simple wipe, though, so it’s not as big of an issue as many people made it appear to be.
Still, if you’re concerned about the durability of the titanium frame, the best fix is to put your iPhone 15 Pro or iPhone 15 Pro Max in a case. We have recommendations on the best cases for both the regular iPhone 15 Pro and the larger iPhone 15 Pro Max.
Another option is to get AppleCare+, which can cover unlimited incidents of accidental damage, as well as up to two incidents of theft or loss coverage, every 12 months depending on the plan you choose. There’s a cost for each incident, but if you don’t like to use cases, this is your best bet.
Burn-in issues with the iPhone 15 Pro Max Joe Maring / Digital Trends This issue has been popping up, mostly specific to owners of the most expensive iPhone 15 Pro Max model. The problem is OLED burn-in, which is not just an iPhone-specific problem since it can occur on any device with an OLED screen. However, it has become a concern for iPhone 15 Pro Max users.
What is OLED burn-in? It’s basically a ghosting effect, where remnants of whatever was on the screen remain on-screen even after you go to something else. For iPhone users, the burn-in problem shows remnants of keyboards, wallpaper images, app icons, videos, and other static visuals.
But what causes it? The primary cause for this is leaving a fixed image on the screen for an extended period of time, and this is only made worse if the display brightness goes higher. So unless you just constantly leave a static image on your iPhone 15 Pro Max screen for hours at a time, this should be a rare occurrence.
However, sometimes it’s just a defect in the display or a quality control issue. If you are experiencing burn-in issues on your iPhone 15 display, the only real fix is to take it to an Apple Store and get it repaired or replaced.
To make sure that this doesn’t happen to you, don’t leave an image on your screen for too long, especially when you’re outside and the brightness can go to max setting.
Poor battery life Joe Maring / Digital Trends This seems to happen every year, but the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have definitely had slightly poorer battery life than their predecessors.
If you’re experiencing not-so-great battery life on your iPhone 15 , you could try a few things. Enabling auto-brightness can help, as this setting adjusts your screen brightness depending on ambient lighting, so you don’t need to have it on max brightness all the time, which would drain the battery faster. Having dark mode also helps reduce battery drain.
Other settings that can help extend battery life throughout the day are disabling background app refresh, turning off location services unless it’s absolutely necessary (Maps, for example), and disabling/limiting notifications. It’s also beneficial to use Wi-Fi as much as possible over cellular data since searching for a good cellular signal takes a toll on battery life.
If all else fails, you can also try restarting your iPhone 15 — a reboot usually helps for a lot of various situations. Lastly, there’s Low Power mode, which disables things like the always-on display and limits the display refresh rate to 60Hz on ProMotion devices to save battery power for essential tasks.
It’s also recommended to check your iPhone 15’s battery health by going to Settings > Battery > Battery Health and Charging.
 This will let you know what your battery’s maximum capacity is; a lower capacity can result in reduced battery life between charges. If it’s below 80% within the first year, then it’s most likely a defective battery, and Apple should replace it.
Camera launching with a black screen Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have the new Action button , which replaced the silent/ring toggle. Though the default action for the button is still silent/ring, you can change it to something else if you prefer, and one of those actions is launching the Camera app. Of course, those who have the regular iPhone 15 or iPhone 15 Plus don’t have the Action button, but you can still quickly launch the Camera app from the lock screen shortcut.
But have you ever encountered a black screen once your camera launched? I have my Action button set to the Camera, and I’ve gotten that annoying black screen more than once in my time with the iPhone 15 Pro.
The only way to fix it is to quit the Camera app or lock the device and try again, unfortunately. It’s unclear why this happens in the first place, as it seems to be random. While the fix is easy enough, it is annoying to deal with as that moment you were trying to capture may be gone by the time you get the camera working again.
The iPhone 15 series is great but not perfect Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends There’s always hype surrounding Apple’s new iPhone releases, and the iPhone 15 series is no exception. It seems to be a commercial success, but that doesn’t mean it’s perfect. As you can see, there have been several issues with the devices already, and it’s only been out since September.
The good news is that most of the problems are pretty easy fixes that you can remedy yourself. The only one that we mentioned that requires a trip to the Apple Store is the burn-in issue, but that one should not be one to really worry about unless your display is defective.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app iPhone update fixes troublesome bug that broke NFC features for some users Apple used this free iPhone app to shoot Monday’s Scary Fast event Apple did something surprising with the iPhone last night Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Mobile "Fitness" can mean a lot of things. For some people, it's being able to run far, or run fast. For others, it's being able to lift heavy things and lower them back down again. Others may simply want to keep trim, or eat healthily. It may even mean getting a great night's sleep, or making sure your mental wellness is at its best. Whatever fitness means for you, we have a list of apps that cover all the possible bases. These apps excel in a number of different areas, but what they all generally have in common is that they use your iPhone's powerful tech to monitor and analyze your performance. As a result, they can help you progress along your fitness journey.
These apps are great at keeping you fit, but they're always best when paired with other tech, so make sure to check out our lists of the best fitness trackers and the best running headphones. Here are the best fitness apps for the iPhone in 2023.
Apple Fitness Mobile Apple released the iPhone 15 last month, with the new device offering two screen sizes of 6.1 inches and 6.7 inches.
The arrival of the latest iteration of the tech giant's popular handset saw the company banish from its online store the iPhone 13 Mini, which, as its name suggests, offers a smaller 5.4-inch display.
Mobile Waiting on an iPhone upgrade? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event. The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
