Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Mobile Guides How to use Mastodon: create your account, join servers, and more By Nadeem Sarwar Close The drama over at Twitter, both from a business as well as user experience perspective, is truly one of a kind. Elon Musk is making changes that not all users will appreciate, and his cavalier attitude towards content isn't winning him many free-speech-absolutist fans like him. Naturally, a lot of Twitter users are looking for alternatives, and one option that has really skyrocketed in popularity lately is Mastodon.
How to join Mastodon How to find and follow other users on Mastodon How to find your Twitter contacts on Mastodon How to use Debirdify to find Twitter users on Mastodon How to import Twitter contacts to Mastodon Mastodon is decentralized , which means the platform is not limited to a single server controlled by one large corporation, like Twitter or Facebook.
 Instead, any person can create their own Mastodon server, which is commonly known as an instance, complete with its own set of rules. That means you set the guidelines for a Mastodon server, and there is no ad serving or data harvesting happening here.
Difficulty Duration What You Need An iPhone or Android phone PC or macOS computer Mastodon app The best part about Mastodon is that you can follow users in other Mastodon instances, even if you are not a member of that instance. Think of it as being able to talk with a person in a Facebook Group or a WhatsApp group chat without having to join that group. The rest is a familiar affair. You can write posts worth up to 500 characters in length, share photos and videos, repost someone’s else content, and more.
How to join Mastodon The biggest hassle on Mastodon, however, is finding the right server. You might want to join a community of Los Angles Lakers fans, environmental activists, or just regular people who love to talk about cats. Based on the server you pick, you will get a fitting username.
For example, if I joined a hypothetical Mastodon server called “sandwichstans” that is all about sandwiches, my username would be something like @nadeem@sandwichstans. This is identical to how you get an email address when you sign up for services like Gmail or Outlook. For the sake of ease, we’ll start with the official Mastodon app available on the App Store for iPhones, but the sign-up process is similar for the Android version , as well.
Step 1: When you launch the app, you will see two options: Sign Up and Log In.
 If this is your first tango with Mastodon, tap on the Sign Up button.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 2: After you hit the Sign Up button, you will land on a page where you will see options to select a server. Here, open servers are arranged across categories like music, regional, tech, games, and food, among others.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Instagram Threads: what you need to know, and how to sign up Ready to ditch TikTok? Here’s how to delete your account Instagram Top 9: how to see your top 9 photos of 2022 Step 3: Pick a server from any of the genres that are of interest to you. If you don’t see anything of interest, try to explore with relevant keywords using the search box at the box. Let’s start with the "ravenation.club" server in the music section for good vibes. Tap on the ravenation.club tickbox and then hit the Next button at the bottom.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 4: On the next page, you will see a set of rules written in plain language that are easy to digest. Once you’ve gone through the ground rules, hit the Next button.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 5: Now, you will land at the signup page, where you get to choose your display name as well as your username. You also need to provide an email address to link your account, as it will be used for recovery if you lose account access or forget the password.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 6: Once you’ve picked up the username and password for your Mastodon account, tap on the Next button. Mastodon will now send an identity verification message to the email address you provided in the previous step. The email’s contents should look something like the image attached: Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 7: Once you confirm the account creation in the email, go back to the Mastodon app, and you will be automatically redirected to the app’s main feed where you can start posting your toots. Yes, Mastodon’s version of tweets are called toots.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 8: This is how your main social page looks on the Mastodon mobile app. The design is familiar, and save for the different terminologies, Mastodon's core social media system is fairly easy to grasp for users.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends How to find and follow other users on Mastodon When you first set up your Mastodon account, you will have a blank slate for a profile. Now, it’s time to build a network. The easiest way to do this is to follow people in your community or those from a different community whose posts might be relevant. To do so, tap on the search icon at the bottom to open your server’s explore feed.
You can just look up a person’s name in the search field, and if they have an account on Mastodon, you’ll see a profile suggestion below. For example, I searched James Gunn, and that’s how I discovered the acclaimed movie director’s Mastodon account.
On the Explore page , you will see content neatly arranged across five sections. The Posts section is essentially an algorithmic feed of toots that are gaining traction, or those from an influential account. Like a certain toot and want to keep track of the creator’s Mastodon activity? Just tap on the profile picture and hit the Follow button. It doesn’t matter if the person is from the same community — @ravenation in my case — or a different community. Once you follow them, their posts will appear in your feed.
Want to connect only with the folks in your server? Slide to the Community carousel at the top of the screen to see toots only from people in your community. Of course, you can also comment, repost, or share the toots — just like you would do on Twitter or Facebook.
If you prefer keeping a tab on social media chatter using hashtags, you’re welcome to explore the hashtag section, as well. The News feed is, well, a feed of news that might be of interest to you.
Finally, there is the For You page, where you will see recommendations for influential accounts worth following, both inside and outside your server. A quick way to discover cool accounts worth following is by going through the Following list of the first influential person you’ve followed.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends How to find your Twitter contacts on Mastodon The most likely reason you are reading this article is that you want to make an exit from Twitter. However, if you’re worried about losing touch with your Twitter contacts when you make the switch to Mastodon, there are a few ways to find your Twitter family here — assuming they’ve also jumped ship.
Step 1: Let’s start with the easiest, most reliable, but a tad exhaustive method. Open your Twitter following or follower list, and check if any of your contacts have put the URL of their Mastodon server or mentioned the username on their Twitter profile page.
Step 2: A quicker hack is by searching the word “Mastodon” in the Twitter search tool. You can narrow down the results by tapping the filter icon to the right of the search box and selecting the People you follow checkbox.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 3: Doing so will show you a list of tweets in which the people you follow have mentioned Mastodon. There is a high likelihood that you will find at least a few tweets talking about a Mastodon username or profile link of the people you follow in their tweets.
How to use Debirdify to find Twitter users on Mastodon If you want to pull up a list of your entire Twitter circle that has moved to Mastodon in one go, there are a few third-party solutions, too. The most convenient one, in my experience, is Debirdify.
Step 1: All you need to do is visit the Debirdify website , enter your Twitter username, and then authorize it to access your Twitter account’s follow statistics.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 2: Once you allow access, Debirdify will compile a list of accounts in your following portfolio that have added a Mastodon account in their profile description.
Step 3: Separate lists of accounts in your following list, muted accounts, and blocked accounts that have a Mastodon presence will also pop up.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 4: You can now copy the Mastodon usernames (and the server names, too) from the Debirdify list and paste them into the Mastodon app to link with those personalities.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 5: A quicker option is downloading the list as a CSV file and then adding it to your Mastodon follow list in one go.
To do so, hit the purple Download CSV Export button on the Debirdify page and then follow this path on Mastodon: Settings > Import and Export > Import.
 On the contacts list import page, make sure you check the Merge option.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends How to import Twitter contacts to Mastodon The other option that I tried is Twitodon, which pulls up the aforementioned list in one swoop and easily lets you import those contacts to your own Mastodon profile. Here’s a step-by-step guide to using Twitodon on mobile: Step 1: On your phone or laptop, fire up the web browser of your choice and open the Twitodon website.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 2: Once you land on the Twitodon website, tap on the hyperlinked Login with Twitter option.
Step 3: You will now land on a web page where you need to grant Twitodon access to your Twitter account. Enter your Twitter account’s login credentials to get going. In case you’re worried, Twitodon doesn’t collect information such as your Twitter account’s password. Plus, you can also choose to revoke Twitodon’s access after you’re done.
Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Step 4: Once you’re done with the Twitter authorization step, you will automatically be directed back to the Twitodon website.
Step 5: Now, you need to do the same for your Mastodon account. Just enter your Mastodon username in the field listed in Step 2 and hit the Login button.
Step 6: On the next page, enter your Mastodon account’s sign-in credentials. Once you’re done, Twitodon will scan through your Twitter contacts and compile a list of users that have put a Mastodon link on their Twitter profile. Go ahead and download the CSV file named new_mastodon_follows.csv on your phone.
Step 7: Now, open the Mastodon app on your phone and navigate to the settings section by following this path: Settings > Import and Export > Import.
 On the import page, make sure you have selected the Merge system.
Mastodon has a lot of meaningful benefits over Twitter, but the UI is as not as polished as its far richer rival and neither are the features as rewarding. However, the service has quickly gained a ton of followers, ever since Twitter's new CEO and owner started making controversial changes to the platform. There is definitely a learning Mastodon basics, but once you've set up your own community there, you will feel right at home with the high degree of control in your hands.
Editors' Recommendations How to find your Threads ticket to show when you joined What is Bluesky, and how to get an invite Thanks to Tapbots’ Ivory app, I’m finally ready to ditch Twitter for good Forget TikTok — it’s time to ban Twitter Twitter bans, then unbans account tracking Elon Musk’s jet Computing How-To Guides Twitter Mobile Twitter is the only social network I’ve ever stuck with and enjoyed, but this has changed since Elon Musk took ownership of the company. The influence he has on it and its content has altered the posts I see, the people who regularly contribute, and the entire platform’s future. While some will welcome the changes, it has made Twitter less enjoyable for me — and prompted me to look for an alternative.
But the ones I’ve tried are simply not good enough and don’t have the same appeal that has kept me returning to Twitter for more than a decade. The shambles around Twitter and its alternatives has ended up making me rethink the way I feel about social media entirely, and perhaps for the better.
Trying to understand Mastodon Mobile It’s only been a little while since Elon Musk bought Twitter, but there has been more than enough drama and turmoil at the social media site to make people flock to alternatives. Though Mastodon and Cohost seemed to be popular options for those looking for a Twitter replacement, a (somewhat) new possibility popped up out of nowhere — Hive Social.
Social Media Elon Musk is finally in charge of Twitter, reports suggest tonight. And he's already fired several top executives.
The controversial $44 billion deal, which in recent months seemed as if it could fall through, closed on Thursday night just ahead of a court-imposed deadline, CNBC’s David Faber said in a tweet.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
