Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features The Dynamic Island was the biggest iPhone mistake in years By Christine Romero-Chan Close Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends In 2017, just in time for the 10th anniversary of the iPhone , Apple revealed the iPhone X alongside the iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus. While the iPhone 8 series retained the Home button, the iPhone X was the first iPhone to get rid of the classic button altogether and introduce Face ID to replace Touch ID.
Dynamic Island app support is bad … still Is the Dynamic Island the new Touch Bar? Not the iPhone upgrade I hoped for But along with it came the notch at the top of the display, which housed the selfie camera and Face ID sensor. My initial thought upon seeing the notch for the first time was, “Wow, that’s ugly.” I didn’t even buy the iPhone X at the time, instead opting for the iPhone 8.
It’s now been five generations of iPhone since the iPhone X, and last year, the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max eliminated the notch in favor of the Dynamic Island.
 In the notch’s place, we now have an elongated, pill-shaped cutout at the top of the display, and it can change to show you various things like timers, music/podcasts that are playing, and more.
But it’s been almost a year since the Dynamic Island was introduced , and I’m still not getting much out of it. In fact, it’s gone from something that I was really excited about to a huge disappointment.
Dynamic Island app support is bad … still Joe Maring / Digital Trends I started my career out reviewing apps, so I’ve got hundreds — maybe even a thousand — apps in my downloads. Sure, a lot of them may not even be on the App Store anymore, but I still have plenty of apps that are current and up to date.
The problem is that the apps that I use most, the ones I depend on daily, barely use the Dynamic Island at all.
 I’m not a sports person, so I have no use for viewing sports scores, even though that’s one of the most popular uses of the Dynamic Island. Of course, I’m not sure what kind of information could be displayed in the Dynamic Island for apps like Outlook/Spark, Microsoft Teams, Ivory for Mastodon, Threads, or my other social media apps. Still, for most of the day, my Dynamic Island is just there, blank, like a deserted wasteland.
I did notice that Instagram now uses the Dynamic Island to tell you the progress of an upload, like when uploading things to Stories, but that only lasts for literally a few seconds before it disappears. I also have Pixel Pals , which uses the Dynamic Island to house a cute little pixelated pet, but that’s not what I would call “informative ” or even a necessity.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends One app I use that I’m shocked doesn’t use Dynamic Island yet is DoorDash. Now, I don’t use DoorDash as often as I did during the pandemic, but every now and then, I want to order food and not leave the house (I’m lazy). Each time I do so, I shake my head in disappointment because there’s no real-time tracking as a Live Activity or some kind of status indicator in the Dynamic Island. This is the kind of app that would be perfect for both features, but nope.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends At the moment, I only really get use out of the Dynamic Island when I’m playing music from Apple Music, using turn-by-turn directions in Apple Maps, authenticating with Face ID for Apple Pay, and maybe if I need a timer that isn’t on my Apple Watch Ultra.
I know some apps I have, like Uber and Flighty, use the Dynamic Island and Live Activities, but I barely fly or need an Uber right now. I would just like to see more of the apps that I use daily have support for a key selling point of the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max. It’s been a year, and there’s still barely anything.
Is the Dynamic Island the new Touch Bar? Malarie Gokey / Digital Trends The Dynamic Island so far reminds me of the Touch Bar on 2016-era MacBooks.
 The Touch Bar was interesting in that it added a touch panel above the keyboard for quick access to various functions in applications, but as novel an idea as it was, a lot of people didn’t care for it.
There were some big reasons why people didn’t like the Touch Bar, aside from the fact that it replaced the entire function row of keys on the keyboard itself. Despite the name “Touch” Bar, you couldn’t do anything on it without having to look down at it since it’s a touch panel — it always changed appearance and function depending on the active app, and you didn’t exactly get physical feedback since it was just a glass surface. For “pro” users, touch typing is a thing, so having to look down at the keyboard to do something was considered disruptive.
Digital Trends After a few years of MacBooks with a Touch Bar, Apple finally decided to eliminate the hardware feature in 2021 with the 14-inch and 16-inch MacBook Pros.
 This also marked the return of the function row on the keyboard.
I feel like the Dynamic Island could go the same way as the Touch Bar. It’s quite limited in space, so any information that is displayed there will always be extremely condensed or minimal. And again, there just hasn’t been enough support from third-party developers, even almost a year later.
Not the iPhone upgrade I hoped for Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends When Apple revealed the Dynamic Island, it was exciting because it was finally replacing the ugly notch, and what you could potentially do with it seemed so cool. But it’s a year later and I’m still only getting any use out of it with native apps, so one of the main reasons I wanted an iPhone 14 Pro has been squandered. I originally thought it was fun and whimsical, but now I just see the Dynamic Island as boring and unimaginative.
The rumors for the iPhone 15 lineup say that the Dynamic Island is going to be on all the models , not just the Pros. Maybe we’ll see the Dynamic Island become useful once it’s standard across the lineup and more accessible by people … or maybe it’ll continue to be just as limited as it is today. I certainly hope it’s the former because, as it stands right now, it still feels like a lot of wasted potential.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone Apple Apple iPhone Features Mobile I really didn’t want to put my iPhone 15 Pro Max in a case. Cases add bulk, reduce the attractiveness, and wouldn’t allow me to enjoy the vastly improved ergonomics or the feel of the titanium band around the chassis. So I vowed not to do it.
However, I’m also realistic. My expensive new phone needs some protection, especially when it is being shaken around in my bag or placed on a table. The solution came from the past, as the product I chose brought me back to the way I protected the very first iPhone models I owned when cases were far less common than they are today.
The return of the pouch Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
