Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I review PCs for a living — here are the apps I install on every device By Mark Coppock Close Since I started reviewing laptops here at Digital Trends, I’ve worked on over 240 devices. That means I always have a device or two to use, but the machines themselves aren’t so important. It’s what I can do with them that counts. That’s why I install a core group of applications on every laptop I set up.
The basics Enhanced productivity and security Just for fun Get everything quickly And there’s probably more Going through the process of setting up a new laptop several times a month means I have a list of applications I reach for. If you’re setting up a new PC for the first time, here’s what you should download.
The basics Microsoft I write for a living, which means my core computing tasks are based on putting words to paper (so to speak) and conducting a lot of research and analysis. I therefore rely on several productivity applications to get my work done.
A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new I review laptops for a living, and these are the settings I change on every device I saw the AI future of Windows 11, and it blew me away I settled on Microsoft products a long time ago, and so I currently use Microsoft 365 , which gives me access to Microsoft Word , Excel , PowerPoint , and OneNote.
 The suite provides a lot more than that, but those are the apps I use the most. Since we’re on the topic of Microsoft, I also store my documents in OneDrive.
 That provides both backup and syncing across the variety of devices I use, which include a few Windows 11 laptops (the Dell XPS 15 and XPS 13 Plus ), an Apple MacBook Pro 14 , my Windows 11 desktop, and an iPad Pro 11-inch.
 Finally, I use Skype for basic messaging, mostly with my family.
For a free alternative, there’s Google’s cloud-based suite, but you can also download LibreOffice if you prefer the desktop experience. It’s a full office suite similar to Microsoft 365, though it lacks the centralized, cloud-synced functionality that Microsoft offers.
For web browsing, I use Microsoft Edge.
 I know that’s not the most popular choice, but I’ve tried all the major browsers and Edge just feels right to me. It doesn’t require much configuration on a new PC, because it syncs things like extensions automatically.
So, those are the first apps I install and configure. Or, rather, at least on Windows 11 PCs, I sign in with my Microsoft account during the initial setup and that automatically signs me into the suite (which is almost always already installed) and, typically, OneDrive as well. OneNote requires additional configuration to open the files that I use the most. It’s a simple process that’s built into muscle memory by now. On a MacBook and iPad, I need to manually download Microsoft Office, OneNote, OneDrive, and Skype, then configure and sign into each. It’s a more cumbersome process, but not by much.
Enhanced productivity and security Digital Trends Those apps handle the basics, but there are still a few that I install for enhanced productivity. Some are free, and some are either upfront purchases or subscriptions. But all add something that makes me more productive.
First up is TechSmith’s Snagit.
 It costs $63, with special pricing for education and government, and it can be installed on two machines. There’s also a maintenance plan you can purchase that provides free upgrades. The PC limit is something I need to manage, but otherwise, it’s a great tool for grabbing screenshots and performing simple edits. I barely use a fraction of the apps’ functionality, but I find it better than Windows 11’s built-in Snipping Tool.
Next is Microsoft Teams.
I’m sure to install the corporate version so that I can connect to all relevant accounts. The personal version is already built into Windows 11, but you need the separate, business version to use it for work.
In addition to the major apps, there are a few utilities that I also install. I use TreeSize Free on Windows 11 to help me manage my rather complex file structure. I don’t keep that many files on my MacBook, and so I don’t bother with an equivalent MacOS utility. This tool sorts through all of your files and provides a high-level overview of how much space everything takes up, which is helpful for creating some extra storage space.
I also work with a lot of compressed files, and while Windows 11’s built-in functionality is fine for basic Zip files, I like the features provided by 7-Zip.
 I use Archiver 4 on my MacBook, which is available for $20 directly from the vendor or the App Store.
PeaZip is a decent, free alternative on Mac.
I rely on Windows 11’s default Defender antivirus app and functionality for my basic protection. But, for additional peace of mind, I also install the free version of Malwarebytes.
 It provides another layer of security against various types of malware, and it’s relatively unobtrusive.
I admit that I don’t install anything on my MacBook or iPad, which may or may not be a smart thing depending on your position on the security of Apple’s operating systems. As I’m writing this, I’m thinking maybe I should look into some kind of antivirus protection for my Apple devices.
Just for fun Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Of course, I don’t just work on my PCs. I also occasionally play a few games, stream media, and listen to a lot of music.
So, Steam and Battle.net are two of the first apps I install. I’m not a huge gamer, but I do play some strategy games like Civilization VI and role-playing games like Diablo IV.
 I’m also looking into Baldur’s Gate 3 , which is available on Steam.
In Windows 11, the best way to stream video is through the Edge browser. It supports 4K and high dynamic range (HDR) on most services, very specifically in the case of Netflix. I don’t bother installing any of the apps for a given service. In MacOS, I’ve found that Safari provides the best experience, although I do use the Apple TV+ app, which of course is preinstalled.
If you want a desktop experience, you can find apps like Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Disney+, and Crunchyroll through the Microsoft Store.
For music, I’m all-in on Tidal.
 It provides the highest-quality audio of all the services, and it’s the only one that takes full advantage of the excellent Quad DAC (digital-analog converter) in my LG G8 ThinQ smartphone. The Tidal app works well on Windows 11 and MacOS, and it supports the service’s Max quality. That’s particularly nice on my MacBook Pro 14, which has some of the best audio quality you’ll find on a laptop, whether through the external speakers or the headphone jack that supports high-impedance headphones.
I’m also an avid reader of both fiction and nonfiction, and I bought into the Kindle ecosystem years ago. I can buy a book from the Kindle store and it’s immediately available on every device I own. Reading progress, bookmarks, highlights, and notes are all synced across platforms, making it a seamless reading solution. So, I install the Kindle app on my Windows 11, MacOS, and iOS devices soon after setting them up.
Get everything quickly You can seek out the installers for all of these apps individually, though you can grab a lot them automatically through Ninite.
 This website holds dozens of common apps you might want to install on a new PC, all of which are free, and allows you to download them in a single click.
In addition to the apps listed above, here are a few you should consider downloading with Nanite: Discord — all-in-one messaging, video calls, and groups Handbrake — video encoding and transcoding WinDirStat — a storage analyzer GIMP — a free, open-source image editor similar to Photoshop TeamViewer 16 — remote desktop app, which is useful for servicing your PC And there’s probably more Those are the apps that come immediately to mind, but I install others further down the road as the need arises. And your app usage might be completely different. If you’re a creator, for example, you might immediately install a few creative apps like those available in Adobe’s Creative Cloud.
 But, hopefully, this list provides some inspiration for apps that you might install on your PCs once you’ve finished the setup routine.
Editors' Recommendations ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows Microsoft Copilot sounds great. Here’s why I definitely won’t use it Microsoft September 2023 event: Copilot, Surface Laptop Studio 2, and more I write about tech for a living — these are the browser extensions I install on every PC Apps Features Laptops Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Computing From smart speakers to ChatGPT and Bing Chat, AI has slowly crept into our lives, but not all instances of AI are as prominent as those three examples. Sometimes, the effect is subtle, but still pretty nice. It appears that Microsoft is working on one such instance of AI-enhanced tech that could make using Windows 11 just a little more pleasant. We're talking about AI-powered live wallpapers, and they might be coming soon.
First spotted by Windows Latest, Microsoft is readying an AI-powered desktop that could make the whole user experience feel a lot more interactive. The idea is to adjust depth perception and make some backgrounds appear more "alive" when moving your cursor or the entire device. The wallpaper might move or shift, depending on what you're doing on the desktop.
Computing Windows 11 is chock-full of shortcuts that can help you work more efficiently and effectively. Some of them are unique to Windows, and some are common to most operating systems. But if you're a Windows user, then you'll want to keep each of these in mind.
There are too many shortcuts to cover, so I'm focusing on the ones that I use the most. I'm a writer who uses a variety of systems to get my work done, so my favorite shortcuts are specific to what I do the most. You may come across some other shortcuts that are more relevant to your workflow, but these are the ones I reach for constantly.
The basics Computing As a tech writer, details matter, so I immediately jumped on using Beeftext when I discovered it. It's a typing application for Windows (there are alternatives for other operating systems I'll cover here, as well), and I first loaded it up to ensure that my typing was accurate. I didn't expect how much it would supercharge my productivity in the process.
Beeftext isn't a fancy, AI-enhanced writing tool. It’s a classic text expander, also known as a text substitution app. If you’ve never used one before, you really need to experience this kind of computer magic. I type in a few letters, then hit the space bar. Instantly, a long word, phrase, or even several lines of text will appear.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
