Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to deactivate your Instagram account (or delete it) By Michael Archambault Close If you’re getting a bit tired of Instagram, you might want to consider deactivating your account. With Instagram, you have two choices: You can learn how to deactivate your account, or you can delete it completely. We’ll review both options, so you can decide if you’d rather take a break or cut ties with Instagram forever. Just be cautious, as deleting your Instagram account removes all of your content permanently, and you won’t be able to get it back.
Temporarily disable your Instagram account Permanently delete your Instagram account Difficulty Duration What You Need A PC A web browser An internet connection Temporarily disable your Instagram account By temporarily disabling your Instagram account, your profile, along with its photos, likes, and comments, will be hidden and they'll stay hidden until you log back in to reactivate your account. Disabling your account is a perfect way to take a bit of a vacation from Instagram. Another option to consider is merely muting a few friends , if that’s your main reason for disabling your account.
The following instructions only work for Instagram accounts that do not use a Facebook account to log in. If you want to disable your Instagram account but your account uses Facebook to log in, you'll need to remove your Facebook account from your Instagram account and then reset your Instagram account's password.
 To do this successfully, you'll need to have access to the email account that is associated with your Instagram account. Once your Facebook account is unlinked from your Instagram account and you have reset your password for your Instagram account, you can use the following instructions to temporarily disable your Instagram account.
Note: The instructions below reflect the best available method for deactivating Instagram based on Instagram's latest version of its user interface. However, the steps below may not work all of the time or for everyone. In fact, while we were able to confirm the steps below, it is still unclear if this method actually deactivates an Instagram account or if it merely logs you out. And Instagram's own Help Center article on the matter even says that this method may not work "at this time." Here's how to deactivate your Instagram account: Step 1: Visit Instagram.com using a web browser.
If not already logged in, log in to your Instagram account.
Step 2: From the left side menu, choose the Profile option.
screenshot How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac Meta just created a Snoop Dogg AI for your text RPGs How to use Meta Threads on the web Step 3: At the top of the page, click the Edit profile button.
Step 4: Select See more in Accounts Center.
screenshot Step 5: On the Accounts Center page, select Personal details.
 Then choose Account ownership and control.
screenshot Step 6: From the menu that appears, choose Deactivation or deletion.
 Then select the account you want to deactivate.
Step 7: On the next screen, choose Deactivate account.
 Then scroll down to select the Continue button. You'll then be prompted to enter your account password.
screenshot Step 8: Now choose a reason for deactivating your Instagram account from the list of reasons provided. Then select Continue.
Step 9: Select the Deactivate account button to confirm the deactivation of your Instagram account.
screenshot Step 10: The above steps can work for anyone as long as they have a PC, an internet connection, and a web browser.
The Instagram mobile app can let users disable their accounts, and it uses a similar Accounts Center method like steps 1-9. Both the Android and iOS version of Instagram may vary slightly in their methods, but the following steps should still generally apply to both platforms.
Open the Instagram mobile app and then: Select your Profile picture (bottom right of screen) > Select the Three horizontal lines menu icon > Settings and privacy > Select Accounts Center > Personal details > Select Account ownership and control > Deactivation or deletion.
Then select the account you want to deactivate. Choose Deactivate account > Continue.
 Type in your password when prompted then select Continue.
 Choose your reason for deactivating > Continue.
You can set an automatic reactivation option or select Don't reactivate automatically from the drop down menu. Select Continue.
 Finally, confirm your account deactivation by selecting Deactivate account.
Permanently delete your Instagram account If you know that you definitely won’t be coming back to Instagram, you can permanently delete your account. It is critical to note that deleting your account will remove your profile, photos, videos, comments, likes, and followers. There is no way to retrieve them once the process has been completed. Additionally, you won’t be able to use that same username again if a new user ends up taking it before you decide to sign up with it again.
According to Instagram's help guide there are two ways to delete your account: You can either follow the steps we already outlined in the deactivation section above and just choose the "delete account" option instead of "deactivate" when asked, or you can follow the alternative method we've outlined below.
If you are positive that you want to delete your account, follow these steps: Step 1: Visit the Instagram Delete Your Account page.
 If not already logged in, log in to your Instagram account.
Step 2: Next to Why do you want to delete [your username]? , select an option from the drop-down box.
Step 3: Enter your Instagram password to confirm.
screenshot Step 4: Click Delete [Your Username].
By following the above process, you will have submitted a deletion request to the Instagram team. After 30 days, Instagram will permanently delete your account and all information. Instagram notes that it may take up to 90 days for the process to complete.
Step 5: As with disabling an account, you can also delete your account via the Instagram mobile app.
Here's how to do it on iOS: Select your Profile icon > the Three horizontal lines menu icon > Settings and privacy > Account > Delete account > Delete account > Continue deleting account.
 Then answer the on-screen prompts.
Then select Delete [your username] > OK.
Here's how to do it on Android: Select your Profile icon > the Three horizontal lines menu icon > Settings and privacy > Accounts Center > Personal details > Account ownership and control > Deactivation or deletion.
Then select the account you want to delete. Choose Delete account > Continue.
 Choose a reason for deleting > Continue.
 Enter your password > Continue.
 Then select Delete account to confirm your account deletion.
It's also worth noting that, according to Instagram's help guide, the instructions for Android can also work for iOS. Some of the steps may vary slightly though.
Editors' Recommendations How to calibrate your monitor to make it better for free Here’s how to share your screen on Discord How to sync your Outlook calendar with an iPhone How to measure your PC’s power use, and why it matters How to fix a dead pixel on your monitor or smartphone Social Media Web Apps How-To Guides Instagram Computing If you're new to the Mac, the first question people have is how to take a screenshot. There's no Print Screen key, so you'll be forgiven if it's not immediately obvious. Or hey, maybe you just forgot the keyboard shortcut or want to go deep into the very best screenshot apps available. We got ya.
There are plenty of options and customizations, so there's plenty to dig into. Here’s everything you could ever want to know about taking a screenshot on your Mac.
How to take a screenshot using keyboard shortcuts MacOS keyboard shortcuts are the quickest ways to take screenshots, whether you're capturing the entire screen or just a portion. By default, Apple's methods save your screenshot to the desktop, but if you want to copy the screenshot to the clipboard, there's a keyboard shortcut you can use instead.
How to capture a selected area Mobile Threads is here and already has millions of sign-ups, no doubt due to the ease of its joining process, its immediate availability for both Android and iOS users, and the fact that its user interface shares lots of familiar features with its main competitor, Twitter.
But what about the differences between the two microblogging platforms? How has Threads already distinguished itself from Twitter? Like many Twitter users, you might be hungry for an alternative and are wondering how Meta's app differs from Twitter and if those differences are worth signing up for and learning how to navigate yet another social media app.
Social Media Facebook's Feed recommendations aren't always helpful. The Feed is designed to recommend content you'd most likely want to see, and it's based on your Facebook activity, your connections, and the level of engagement a given post receives.
But not every Facebook user cares about seeing the most popular posts or Facebook's attempts to understand what you'd like to see. Sometimes, you just want to keep it simple and see the latest posts that have been shared. If that's you, it's important to know that you're not just stuck with Facebook's Feed algorithm. You can sort your Feed to show its most recent posts — and we can show you how.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
