Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best apps for a second phone number: our 10 favorites By Jackie Dove and Mark Jansen Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends A second phone number is a useful thing and can be used to separate your personal life from your business life — or even just used as an extra layer of insulation when interacting with strangers, websites, or just dating. You might think getting a second phone number is difficult and would require swapping out SIM cards or getting a new phone or something similar.
But you couldn’t be more wrong! All you need to do is look at some of the best Android apps and iPhone apps.
 An app is all you need to add a second line to your smartphone and keep your personal phone number private and available only to those who you really trust. Here are the best apps to use for getting a second phone number.
Vyke A blend between a second phone number app and a messaging app, Vyke is the app to grab if you’re looking for both a second number and a new chat app. You can pick numbers from a variety of different countries and create up to four different numbers at once. Calling and messaging other Vyke users is free, but it’ll cost you to message and call other numbers through the app, though you can buy a subscription instead of credit if you prefer. Some reviews do mention issues with getting WhatsApp and other services to accept the second phone numbers, though, so keep that in mind if this is your aim.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
iOS Android Onoff Speed is the name of the game for Onoff, and it claims to be able to get you set up with a second number in seconds. You can choose from a number of different countries to register your second number, and it comes with visual voicemail and even the choice to market yourself as a “VIP number”. However, there doesn’t seem to be an option to create more than one additional number, and some users have complained about calls being dropped. It costs $4 per month or $13 for an entire year.
iOS Android Numero eSIM A solid option for business people and frequent travelers, Numero leans on eSIM capabilities to offer some excellent utility when you’re abroad and when you need a second phone number. You can choose from 80+ countries for your second number and use it to register on WhatsApp and other platforms. The eSIM capabilities are equally impressive and offer custom package deals for 12 countries and data in over 150. You can pay a monthly fee for a U.S.-based second number, but anything anywhere else is going to rely on purchased credits, so keep that in mind if you’re intending to use this for an international number.
iOS Android Phoner Image used with permission by copyright holder Phoner app has it all: It offers personal and business second phone numbers, reverse phone number lookup, phone call recording, anonymous caller lookup, and private texting and calling. Phoner supports international calling and texting in over 40 countries, SMS and MMS, as well as phone call recording. You get free texting and cheaper calling rates between Phoner users. Make your new phone number long-term for your business or use Phoner as a temporary disposable phone and generate as many numbers as you need. Phoner offers subscription plans starting at $5 per month for premium numbers.
iOS Android Sideline Sideline is a business-oriented app that provides a second phone number as well as calling, texting, and voicemail features, designed for workplace collaboration. All calls are cellular and use your existing carrier plan. Texting includes SMS, MMS picture messaging, and group messaging. Pro features include a team number that allows you to split a single number among multiple devices. The app lets you build a unique identity with vanity phone numbers, where your name or product is spelled out. You can choose area codes to find an available local number for your region and employ auto-reply via text or MMS. An enterprise account lets you manage company phone numbers on employee devices. Additional features include custom caller ID, business voicemail message and greeting, voicemail to text, and auto voicemail. You can pick a new Sideline phone number and port numbers from a burner number, Google number, Smartline, Line2, or other services. Sideline is updated often with bug fixes and interface enhancements.
iOS Android Google Voice If you have a personal Google account, Google Voice will give you a phone number for calling, text messaging, and voicemail that you can use with your smartphone or computer. It will even sync across devices for on-the-go connections and message management. The app automatically filters out spam and blocks designated numbers. You can arrange personalized settings for forwarding calls, text messages, and voicemail. All communications are stored and backed up so you can search your history. Google Voice provides advanced voicemail transcriptions and lets you call international destinations without extra charges for international minutes. Google Voice calls are placed via the app’s access number using standard minutes from your cell plan. Google Voice only works for personal Google Accounts in the U.S. and G Suite accounts in some markets. Text messaging is not universally supported. Updated versions now support marking group messages as spam.
iOS Android Cloud SIM If you need multiple phone numbers on your smartphone for international conversations between mobile and landline, Cloud SIM — which offers numbers from the U.S., U.K., Canada, France, and Poland — may be the answer. The service offers low-cost and free rates for calls or text SMS without additional or roaming charges, lets you choose your connection type, and lets you set up your call via either local access (GSM), mobile data, or Wi-Fi to some 200 countries. Cloud SIM facilitates receiving texts and calls to your new number, free text chat between phones worldwide while using Wi-Fi or data, sharing pictures, and using local access from your free minutes while you travel or have no internet. It offers a dedicated voicemail for each separate mobile number. You can buy up to four virtual numbers. New versions let you export and import SMS and chats.
iOS Android Burner Image used with permission by copyright holder Burner gives you a second line for calling, texting, and picture messaging. It intercepts calls on your Burner, routing them to your cell phone so no one sees your real number. You can call, text, and manage contacts from within the app and treat it as a long-term second phone number for business or projects or create a disposable phone number for dating, sales, deliveries, shopping, or selling items on Craigslist.
Integrations with Dropbox, Google Drive, and Slack let you archive messages and voicemails or communicate with your team. You can create multiple phone numbers, keep them as long as you want — or burn them anytime. Share your Burner with anyone while keeping your new number secret for anonymous texting. Burner is free to download and comes with a seven-day free sample number. Additional phone numbers are available through in-app purchases or subscriptions. You can use Burner via a prepaid plan or subscription and can change your plan at any time in the U.S. or Canada, except in Puerto Rico.
iOS Android 2ndLine 2ndLine is a full-featured business phone system that you can use in addition to your personal phone number. The app is available in the U.S. and Canada and lets you call and message from a different number on the devices you and your employees own, either via Wi-Fi or your existing cellular network. You can choose a local phone number with unlimited text and picture messaging, unlimited phone calling, and cheap international calling. Frills like emojis, stickers, and GIFs let you have a little fun, too. It also offers voicemail transcription, caller ID, call forwarding, customizable text and ringtones, and quick replies. You can also add your signature to each text. Passcode functionality lets you keep all calls and messages secure.
Android Hushed Hushed lets you keep conversations private. You get a second smartphone number with this app, including local numbers for more than 60 countries, including the U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia, Spain, Mexico, and Brazil. You can use your second phone number for private calls and texts while concealing your caller ID. When you finish with the numbers, you can burn them. This app features full picture messaging (MMS), text (SMS), talk capabilities, and unlimited texting and calling in North America. Each number comes with call routing, call forwarding, auto-reply messages, and custom voicemail greetings. You can access your account on any device connected to Wi-Fi or data, and you can even use your tablet as a phone. The app offers flexible prepaid plans for 7, 30, 90, or 365 days in addition to pay-as-you-go plans. Test it out first with the app’s free three-day trial.
iOS Android Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones The best phones in 2023: our 15 favorite smartphones right now The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy I’d recommend these early Black Friday phone deals if you can’t wait Android Apple Apps Best Products Google Mobile Waiting on an iPhone upgrade? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event. The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Mobile Apple raised the bar again at its latest fall event. The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are the two new top ways to experience Apple's smartphone world. These are the greatest iPhones available, with all of the new features and — excitingly for anyone who travels with a laptop or iPad — a USB-C port at the bottom. The iPhone 15 Pro is the phone to get if you want strong performance paired with a more manageable 6.1-inch display, and many would argue it's the perfect blend of size and power.
The iPhone 15 Pro is easier to handle than the iPhone 15 Pro Max. However, it’s crucial to protect your device from accidental drops and scratches, especially since it is an expensive phone that costs $1,000. Luckily, you can easily safeguard your investment by using a protective case that can withstand the usual hazards of daily use, such as bumps and scratches. We offer a wide range of case options to choose from, including slim cases and rugged cases for maximum protection. Take a look, and you’re sure to find something you’ll love.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
