Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best golf apps for iPhone and Android: 8 best ones in 2023 By Jackie Dove and Mark Jansen Close If you play golf, then it’s likely you live and breathe golf, and like everyone else, you’re probably always looking to improve your game. Hiring a coach and other methods are great ways to improve, but have you considered starting out by downloading an app? Golfing apps are some of the most advanced applications out there and make heavy use of artificial intelligence and GPS to both track your movements and analyze your swing. Golf apps can track an enormous amount of data about the way you play and can help you to turn those bogeys into birdies. Here are the best golf apps for iPhones and Android phones.
Looking for more useful apps? Check out our lists of the best Android apps and best iPhone apps you can download today.
Golf Pad: Golf GPS & Scorecard Golf Pad prides itself in offering features for free that most charge for, which puts it at the top of our list for golf apps. Free features include (but are not limited to) a GPS rangefinder, availability on over 40,000 courses around the world, scorecards for up to four golfers, aerial maps, stats, and social media sharing. Just about the only features locked behind a $30 per year subscription are extended stats, Apple Watch sync, and “Plays Like” distances with club recommendations. There’s no denying Golf Pad has a broad range of features for free users, and with an annual subscription coming in at less than $3 per month, it’s hard to argue against downloading this app if you’re a golfer.
Android iOS GHIN (Golf Handicap and Information Network) If you’re a member of a golf association, then you probably keep a pretty close eye on your handicap. If your association uses GHIN services, then the GHIN app is a must-download. It keeps track of all of your stats that inform your handicap, including your scores, number of putts, and accuracy, but also offers a number of other handy features as well. You can access course maps and GPS, keep track of group scores, and look up the stats for individual golfers as well. There’s a one-time upgrade cost for enhanced GPS for $50, but nothing else in the app needs to be paid for, making this a real bargain. Keep in mind you can only use this if your association uses GHIN, though.
Android iOS USGA Alright, so this won’t help you with your swing or keep track of your scorecard, but if you want to stay abreast of the rest of the world of golf, then the official USGA app is the way to go. The USGA app keeps track of the latest news and action from every 2023 USGA championship, including the U.S. Open and amateur championships. Create customized leaderboards, watch live tournaments, keep your e-tickets, and stay updated with the latest tee times.
Android iOS 18Birdies: Golf GPS App You can use this app as a GPS rangefinder, digital scorecard, and stat tracker. It also offers side games, rewards, and news about the golfing world. You can even share rounds and compete for a spot on the leaderboard or find out about local events to compete in. It also supports both the Apple Watch and Wear OS smartwatches. The free app is abundant in features, but if you spring for the premium membership at $5/month, you can access 3D green maps, advanced course data and stats, live weather information, and video lessons. It’s also easier to get feedback from the app’s AI swing coach with the auto-capture tool. Just press Record , take a couple of swings, and the AI coach does the rest. Scorecards are now even better integrated into your post-round summary for a quicker view of your scores.
Android iOS Zepp Golf Swing Analyzer This app is designed to help you to record your strokes and improve your golf swing.
 You can record swings, create highlight videos with tracer overlays and voiceovers, and share them. There is also coaching to help you improve and a library of pro swings to show you how it’s done. With the iOS version, your Apple Watch can give the app information on your tempo, hand path, and hand speed, but for the full range of metrics, you need to spring for the Zepp sensor at $150. The free app is worth using, though, and it also has score tracking with GPS. This app is still great but hasn’t been updated since 2020, so don’t expect any new features any time soon.
Android iOS Golf GPS SwingU This free app is a solid GPS rangefinder with thousands of golf courses in its database. It will help you with distances to the green on every hole and highlight obstacles to avoid with satellite imagery. It also works as a digital scorecard and keeps track of your handicap. If you want extras like wind speed and club recommendations, you can subscribe for $10/month, with the Premium subscription starting at $14/month.
There’s also support for the Apple Watch, allowing you to check distances, pars, and scores on your wrist. SwingU Versus, an integrated strokes gained analysis system available to Premium subscribers only, tracks and analyzes every facet of your game. The app also makes tour-level stats available to Premium subscribers. It’s also now easier to see your rounds and handicap in a single view in the Performance Tab. You can now enter scores with the Versus scorecard, while an added graph displays your average distance to the hole for every approach shot for a single round.
Android iOS Hole19 The 19th hole is usually a bar you retire to after a round of golf, but in this case, it’s a handy free app packed with useful features. There is a solid GPS rangefinder, digital scorecard, performance statistics tracking, and the option to check out tee times, find discounts, and book a round on many courses. With a nice, clean interface, the ability to chart your progress, and a lively community, this is a golf app that’s worth checking out. It also supports the Apple Watch, and you can subscribe to unlock more features.
It features a shot tracker for premium pro members, so you can now track individual shots throughout your round to gain advanced club statistics. Golf news is now included in the app, while a new home screen serves as a front page for the latest headlines from the Tour and content from the best instructors. The Handicap Calculator helps you calculate and receive a more accurate handicap that enables competition with all skill levels.
Android iOS mScorecard If you just want a relatively no-frills digital scorecard that calculates scores, handicaps, and stats for up to five players, then this app will suit you. It offers satellite images and GPS to help you calculate distances, and it supports side games, but mainly it’s about tracking your strokes. You can also use it to analyze stats or rounds and share them with friends. It supports the new World Handicap System, gross scores in the stats, the ability to view full-round stats in the premium version, a modified Stableford side game, a Pars side game, and the ability to import rounds recorded by friends to your own account. Slope and course ratings are also displayed when selecting tees.
Android iOS Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 Pro Max screen protectors in 2023 The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The 22 best Apple Watch faces you should be using The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now Outdoors Android Apple Apps Best Products Google Mobile Choosing the best phone in 2023 can be quite challenging as there are so many excellent options available. Whether you are an iPhone fan, an Android user, or open to any smartphone, finding the perfect one for you may seem like a daunting task. But don't worry, we're here to help! Below, we have compiled a list of our top picks for the best phones you can currently buy. We believe that there's something for everyone on this list, and we're confident that you'll find a phone that suits your preferences perfectly.
Mobile Tablets may not be the hot new thing in 2023, but they're still excellent machines for streaming movies, playing games, or getting work done on the go. And while it seems like the best iPads dominate most of the tablet market, there are still plenty of excellent Android tablet options you should consider.
Whether you want an ultra-premium and superpowerful option, or something more affordable and compact, the Android tablet market has something for everyone. No matter your budget or spec preferences, here are the best Android tablets you can buy in 2023.
Mobile If you can no longer wait for Black Friday to buy a new smartphone, the good news is that you can already take advantage of some early Black Friday phone deals. We're not sure until when they'll remain available, and if their prices will change once the shopping holiday arrives, but if you're interested in any of the offers that we've highlighted below, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase immediately.
Apple iPhone 15 -- $60 per month Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
