Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best piano apps in 2023: top apps for learning how to play By Simon Chandler and Mark Jansen Close The piano remains one of the most loved and most played instruments in the world. It’s a versatile instrument that can be used to make beautiful music by beginners and virtuosos alike, and it can accompany almost any instrument and perform in pretty much any genre.
That said, many would-be pianists find it daunting to take that initial step and start learning how to play. Fortunately, there is a glut of excellent piano-learning apps out right now that can help you take your first, second, or third steps. Here are the best piano apps to help you learn the piano in 2023.
Synthesia Image used with permission by copyright holder Learning the piano doesn’t have to involve learning to read sheet music, and you can get a start on learning the rhythms, finger techniques, and tunes you want by using Synthesia. Essentially a rhythm-beat game disguised as a learning app, Synthesia challenges you to tap the correct keys as they fall from above. You can either play it on your touchscreen or link it up to a digital piano. It’s free to use, but getting the ability to add and play any song will cost you $8, which is a fair amount if you find yourself hooked.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Android iOS OnlinePianist Image used with permission by copyright holder OnlinePianist takes a slightly different approach from other apps, as while you can learn the piano with this app, the larger approach is on learning how to play certain songs and impress friends. To this end, there’s a massive range of songs, including those from popular TV shows and artists, and you can store your favorites in your own personal playbook. But don’t think it’s skimped on the learner resources as a result. There’s a wide range of customizations you can make, including playing speed and altering for individual hands. You’ll get access to free songs without paying, but to get all of them, you’ll need a subscription. The subscription comes in three flavors: Three months ($30), six months ($42), or a year ($60).
Android iOS Perfect Piano What’s great about Perfect Piano is that you can use it in one of two ways: either with the built-in virtual keyboard that has you tapping on your phone’s screen or with a MIDI (musical instrument digital interface) keyboard, such as the Yamaha P105, Roland F-120, or Xkey. Either way, it offers a fun and accessible way of learning thousands of popular songs on the piano. This best piano app offers the ability to choose different guidance patterns for you to play along to songs with, including traditional sheet music. It also lets you slow down the speed of playback, so you can work your way through songs at your own pace. The built-in virtual keyboard includes all 88 keys of a classical grand piano and can also be given various sounds, from grand piano to pipe organ and synth. Another nice touch is that the app includes a multiplayer mode so that you can compete with friends to see who can play songs most fluently.
Android iOS Simply Piano Aimed at everyone from beginners to more experienced pianists, Simply Piano offers courses that are broken down into a series of lessons. It also lets you learn a wide variety of songs and compositions, something that lets you put what you’ve learned in the lessons into practice. Unlike some other piano apps, it starts from the very beginning, walking you through the basics (such as playing with both hands) and also providing personalized five-minute workouts tailored to your skill level. The app is free to download and use, but you will have to subscribe to its premium version to access all courses, which will set you back $150 for a whole year.
Android iOS Skoove Available for both Android and iOS, Skoove offers a very comprehensive and personalized piano-learning experience. What sets it apart from the crowd is that it uses AI to recognize what you’re playing and offer you appropriate exercises for improving on any mistakes you might be making. It includes over 400 lessons for premium users and over a thousand instructional videos, so you can pick an area you’d most like to work on and develop your skills from there. As with the other best piano apps, it includes a wide library of songs for you to learn, from Beethoven and Mozart to The Beatles and Adele. Helpfully, it includes lessons and tips for recognizing notes and playing music by ear. The app is compatible with USB/MIDI and acoustic keyboards, while it also includes a virtual on-screen keyboard option. The premium plan costs $20 a month or $12 a month if you buy a one-year subscription.
Android iOS Piano Academy by Yokee Music Offering an on-screen virtual keyboard and MIDI-keyboard support, Piano Academy is another comprehensive piano-learning app that offers something for everyone. Its lessons are broken down according to theory or method, while it offers a wide selection of tutorial videos delivered by an instructor who helps to demonstrate what you’re actually trying to learn. One nice touch is that the app listens to you as you play, providing you with feedback on how accurately you’re playing music. It also includes a range of enjoyable games for learning the basics of piano playing, such as hand coordination. The app lets you learn hundreds of songs using an indicator with sheet music that moves from note to note as you play. Overall, it’s a very accessible and useful app with premium plans starting at $20 a month.
Android iOS Flowkey Complete with video tutorials, interactive lessons, and hundreds of songs, Flowkey offers pretty much everything you’d want in a piano-learning app. Aimed at everyone from beginners to more advanced players, it includes step-by-step lessons and instructions on various areas of technique, from reading music to chords and improvisation. It also monitors your playing for advice on how to improve, regardless of whether you’re using an acoustic piano or one with a MIDI connection. The app is free to download and use, but accessing the full range of learning material and content will require a Premium subscription, which is $20 per month and $120 for 12 months.
Android iOS Piano by Gismart Here’s a piano-learning app aimed specifically at people who don’t own a piano or keyboard. Piano is a keyboard simulator app that includes an on-screen piano for you to learn how to play, helping you to get a taste of whether you might like to take the plunge and buy your own piano. It includes a range of lessons on basic skills, such as learning how to play particular chords, while it also has a range of fun mini-games to make the whole learning process a little more enjoyable. Like other apps, Piano lets you learn a number of famous songs, but it also offers a novel way of doing this via its Magic Tiles game, in which virtual tiles fall on the keyboard, indicating which keys to play and when. Ultimately, it may not be quite as exhaustive as other apps, but it’s certainly fun. The full version of the app costs $4 a week or $30 per year, letting you access new songs weekly and more sounds for your virtual keyboard (and removing ads).
Android iOS Vivace: Learn to Read Music Yes, it’s not particularly fun, but learning how to read sheet music is all but essential if you want to become an accomplished pianist. Vivace lets you do just this, providing a wide variety of illustrated tutorials and customized lessons for recognizing notes. Not only does it teach you how to understand note pitch and duration, but it also includes lessons on learning the different musical staffs and on all 15 key signatures. The app is available only for Android, although a good iOS alternative is Notes! — Learn to Read Music.
Android Piano by Yousician Image used with permission by copyright holder It may have a more popular app for guitarists, but Yousician’s piano app is just as comprehensive and useful. It works by using your phone’s microphone to listen to your piano or keyboard, but also has a built-in keyboard if needed. It offers more than 1,500 exercises, lessons, and games for you to develop your piano-playing skills, and also boasts a wide roster of popular songs that you can play and practice along with. Helpfully, it includes lessons and pointers on music theory and how to read sheet music, so it covers pretty much all bases. It’s free to download and use, but the full range of content is available only to those who shell out for a subscription of $20 per month or $120 per year.
Android iOS Playground Sessions For Piano Playground Sessions For Piano offers structured piano lessons straight from expert instructors. The lessons are high-quality and easy to understand, so anyone from beginners to ace players can find this helpful. The app lets you learn both popular pop tracks and classic tunes from the past — so there’s something for everyone. You also get real-time feedback on your technique so you can make sure you’re moving forward on the right path. You get a 14-day free trial to test the app, but the lessons are only accessible through the $18-per-month or $120-per-year subscription. You can also get a lifetime membership for $290.
iOS Functional Ear Trainer This isn’t a piano-learning app per se, but it’s all but essential if you want to be a well-rounded musician capable of improvising with others and playing music by ear. Its approach is fairly simple, teaching you how to recognize tones and intervals in any musical key. This is extremely helpful for learning how to work out songs, since as long as you have the right tonic note (i.e., the first note of any given key), the ability to recognize the distinctive tones of other notes will help you crack the rest of the song. Also, this isn’t something you need to spend masses of time on, since using this app for only 10 minutes per day should improve your listening substantially after a while.
Android iOS Editors' Recommendations The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones The best iPhone games in 2023: 31 games you need to play right now The best Android apps in 2023: Hand curated by our editors The best iPhone apps in 2023: Our filtered list of apps you need to download now The best Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 bands: 15 best ones in 2023 Apps Best Products Mobile If you play golf, then it's likely you live and breathe golf, and like everyone else, you're probably always looking to improve your game. Hiring a coach and other methods are great ways to improve, but have you considered starting out by downloading an app? Golfing apps are some of the most advanced applications out there and make heavy use of artificial intelligence and GPS to both track your movements and analyze your swing. Golf apps can track an enormous amount of data about the way you play and can help you to turn those bogeys into birdies. Here are the best golf apps for iPhones and Android phones.
Looking for more useful apps? Check out our lists of the best Android apps and best iPhone apps you can download today.
Mobile A second phone number is a useful thing and can be used to separate your personal life from your business life — or even just used as an extra layer of insulation when interacting with strangers, websites, or just dating. You might think getting a second phone number is difficult and would require swapping out SIM cards or getting a new phone or something similar.
But you couldn't be more wrong! All you need to do is look at some of the best Android apps and iPhone apps. An app is all you need to add a second line to your smartphone and keep your personal phone number private and available only to those who you really trust. Here are the best apps to use for getting a second phone number.
Vyke Mobile Dating apps have quickly become one of the most popular ways for people to meet new romantic partners. With the sheer volume of apps available, however, it can be a little difficult to know which ones to pick if you're looking for something new. While the likes of Tinder and Bumble have been on the scene for years, there are plenty of great, new apps popping up all the time that take slightly different approaches to helping people looking for love, or even just something quick and casual.
Luckily, regardless of whether you're just getting into the dating scene or simply looking to try a new dating app after spending some time on one that doesn't quite work for you, we've compiled a list of the best iPhone apps and Android apps that will help you find what you're looking for. Whether you're using the iPhone 14, the Galaxy A54, or the Pixel 7 Pro, remember that it can take some time for you to really find your stride with a dating app, but if you pick one and find that it isn't working in terms of your interests or desires, you can always delete it and try again with another one from this list.
Getting started with dating apps If you're totally new to the world of online dating, where do you start? That depends on a few factors, like your age and what you're looking for from online dating.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
