Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features I was totally wrong about 2023’s best folding flip phones By Andy Boxall Close Motorola Razr Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I admit it: I got sucked into the anticipation and excitement around the concept of running any app I wanted on the cover screen of a compact folding smartphone. I wasn’t the only one either. The ability to run any application on a tiny, folded-up smartphone sounds — on paper — really exciting.
Flip phones, cover screens, and apps The hard truth about using any app you want Foldables need to be smarter about this But then I tried the feature out and realized that I was wrong about folding flip phones in this regard. Actually, I didn’t want to run any app on the screen at all. I only need a few.
Flip phones, cover screens, and apps Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Motorola Razr Plus ( or Razr 40 Ultra as it’s known in the U.K.
) can run practically any app installed on the phone’s cover screen. By default, there is a selection of apps available when you swipe to the right of the main screen, but the edit button lets you add as many as you like. It shows a half-hearted warning that apps may not quite look right, as they’re not designed for the oddly shaped small display, but other than that, it’s a total free-for-all.
How a tiny, fun phone changed my mind about foldables Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier These two Android foldables cost less than one Galaxy Z Fold 5 Samsung went in a different direction with the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 , and out of the box, it only lets you run a selection of curated apps it thinks you most want on the cover screen. There was a bit of furor over this ahead of launch, and I’m ashamed to say I was somewhere in the mix, stating that Samsung really needed to widen app support on the cover screen if it wanted to be a success. Post-launch, it was discovered that if you jump through a few hoops and install a separate app on the phone , it’s relatively easy to get any app you like operating on the outer display.
Motorola Razr Plus (left) and the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Joe Maring / Digital Trends That’s any Android app you like on a small screen. Nirvana, surely? Well, no.
As a quick reminder, the Galaxy Z Flip 5 has a 3.4-inch Super AMOLED cover screen with a 720 x 748 resolution, while the Razr Plus has a 3.6-inch AMOLED with a 1056 x 1066 resolution. You can probably tell, even without trying either phone, that these are square screens and not oblong ones — and that they are also much larger than the ones fitted to the Galaxy Z Flip 4 and the Razr Plus’s cheaper sibling, the Razr 40.
The hard truth about using any app you want Previous Next 1 3 Motorola Razr Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Motorola Razr Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Motorola Razr Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Just because the cover screens on these two superb phones are bigger and higher resolution, and can run any app you like, doesn’t mean you should bother. I’ve used both phones for many weeks now and love the way the cover screens show notifications, let me reply to messages, take a quick look at Google Maps, and briefly check an email. I also appreciate how useful they are to show QR codes, tickets, or other time-sensitive information. Basically, they are excellent at saving you time by performing any simple task that would otherwise require opening the phone.
However, the instant I want to write a long message, accurately reply to an email, browse Chrome or Threads, play a game, or watch a video, I open the phone. Why? It’s natural.
When you use the keyboard on the closed Razr Plus, for example, it takes up the entire screen, so you lose context from the original message, slowing you down. When you open Threads, you see one short post at the most and a bit of any attached image, making browsing a laborious affair (which is repeated in Chrome). When you watch a YouTube video, it displays at a fairly low resolution on the screen and is obviously tiny. And while I can add Pocket City to the cover screen, I don’t know why I’d suffer through actually playing it there instead of just opening the phone.
Previous Next 1 4 Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I quickly began to use only a core selection of apps on the cover screens of these phones, such as Messages, WhatsApp, Line, and Outlook. And even then, it was really only to get a little more information outside of the normal notification. As soon as I wanted to do anything in greater detail, I opened the phone to do it. I felt a bit silly getting excited about any app on the cover screen because, in reality, it’s usually much easier and faster to just open the phone up to do anything of substance.
That said, Samsung’s optimized apps are brilliant and far slicker than on the Razr Plus. For example, WhatsApp makes better use of the space on the Z Flip 5 than it does on the Razr Plus. That’s despite the Razr Plus having a bigger screen, simply because WhatsApp has been specifically designed to work on the Z Flip 5. The keyboard doesn’t just fill the screen, although it’s more fiddly to use because it’s smaller, and you can better navigate YouTube on the cover screen too. But I still have no real wish to use either of them.
Foldables need to be smarter about this Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends This may sound like I don’t want apps on the cover screen of my folding flip phones, but this isn’t strictly true. What I’ve found is that the ideal situation is a mix of both Samsung and Motorola’s approaches to them.
Samsung only offers certain apps on the cover screen by default because each has been specially adapted to work there, ensuring quality and functionality don’t suffer. However, it has wasted time and effort optimizing apps like Netflix. I can’t think of a single instance where I would want to watch videos on the cover screen when I could just open up the phone for an infinitely better viewing experience.
Motorola just leaves it down to you from the start and doesn’t require installing another app to make full use of the cover screen’s functionality. This is a great way around the issue of a curated app list likely not providing access to features like digital keys or tickets that are visible in less popular apps, which simply aren’t likely to be worth optimizing for the cover screen. But as the Z Flip 5 proves, apps really benefit from being coded to work on a cover screen.
Motorola Razr Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Freedom to use different apps is essential, but optimizing apps that are actually useful is equally important. Before using these two phones, I was adamant I wanted the chance to have any app on the cover screen, but now having lived with them, my opinion is different.
I wasn’t completely wrong about the need for such open-app functionality, but my earlier thoughts have been refined. Yes, the ability to run any app on the cover screen is a must-have for phones like the Z Flip 5 and Razr Plus, but anything outside of a logical, core group of optimized apps is absolute overkill.
Editors' Recommendations 2023’s newest folding phone is already putting Samsung to shame Why this cheap folding phone from Motorola is a must buy Motorola’s newest folding phone is cheaper than the iPhone 15 How a few small changes made me love the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Motorola’s cheap Razr could change folding phones forever Apps Features Motorola Samsung Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2023 Mobile Samsung's fifth generation of foldable phones is already here, bringing structural improvements to the hinge and other parts tucked inside the body. Besides the improved internals, the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 also gets attention from Samsung in the form of its new and significantly larger cover display.
This external display now occupies a large area on the Flip's top face and lets you accomplish significantly more without opening the phone than you could on any of the previous models. Along with improved hardware, the optimized software ensures the new and powerful specs are utilized to their maximum potential.
Mobile Some of what you’re about to read is going to make it sound like I hate the Google Pixel Fold, but this is not the case. I’ve spent about two weeks with the phone, and there are multiple elements I really like (and even love). However, this is an $1,800 smartphone, and when something costs that much, it needs to come close to being exactly right — especially when there is a really fantastic competing product selling for the same price.
By the end of my time with the Pixel Fold, I had reached a surprising, but very happy conclusion.
My most controversial opinion on the Pixel Fold Mobile IF THE SAMSUNG Z FLIP 5 SURVIVES… I'll Switch.
Samsung’s new Galaxy Z Flip 5 foldable phone has been put through its paces in a particularly brutal durability test.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
