Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News One of the biggest podcast apps is shutting down in August By Nadeem Sarwar Close Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Stitcher, once a popular podcast curation app that also dabbled with live radio stations, is shutting down. Owner SiriusXM has announced that it is focused on “incorporating podcasts into its flagship SiriusXM subscription business” and is looking forward to serving a revamped listening experience in the coming months.
Stitcher was making waves until the pre-pandemic era when it had some popular titles like Conan O’Brien Needs a Friend , SuperSoul Conversations from the Oprah Winfrey Network, and Freakonomics Radio — all of which were also shifted to Pandora after the acquisition. Stitcher also had its own slate of originals such as Sold in America , Just Between Us , and Wolverine: The Lost Trail featuring the Marvel comics character.
The Stitcher app and website will discontinue operations on August 29, 2023. For information on how to export your show list and other questions, please visit: https://t.co/4plo5KCf46 &mdash; Stitcher (@Stitcher) June 27, 2023 Those shutdown plans mean Stitcher, which was first acquired by SiriusXM in 2014 and later by SiriusXM in 2020, will be closing its doors. The Stitcher app and website will shut down on August 29, but the parent company will continue to support content under the Stitcher Studios and Earwolf networks.
If you are a Sticher loyalist to this day, the app offers an export tool to carry your favorite content to another platform. On the mobile app, follow this path: Settings > Export My Shows > Ok, I’ll Save It > Save.
 The locally saved OPML file can be imported into other podcast listening apps, and it can be emailed, as well.
Google is killing another one of its popular apps, and it’s a big one It’s not just you: the Apple Weather app is down You’ll soon be able to use WhatsApp on more than one phone A majority of the audio content pages available on Stitcher’s web client will move to its sister platform Pandora. However, Stitcher isn’t offering detailed clarity on the creator situation. “Hosts/creators will determine availability and accessibility of their shows,” says a FAQ page.
 As for listener analytics, they will also vanish unless the audio content was originally hosted on another service.
Stitcher Right now, Stitcher is putting the onus on creators to inform their audience via show episodes or social media about the next destination for their content. If you are looking to move away from Stitcher as a listener, head over to Pandora or the SXM apps for your fill of podcasts and talk shows from the same stable.
All automatic subscriptions to Stitcher Premium will stop on June 27, while existing annual subscriptions that are supposed to renew before the August 29 closing date will also automatically cancel. Monthly subscription renewals will be blocked as soon as the current cycle concludes.
For annual subscriptions that extend beyond, the company will offer a “prorated refund” for the remaining period following the service discontinuation. Depending on the payment method used for a Premium subscription, the refund amount will either be credited to your bank account or your wallet in Apple’s App Store and Google Play Store.
Editors' Recommendations WhatsApp used to be one of my favorite apps. Now, I can’t stand it The Fitbit app just got its biggest update in years Apple cracks down on ChatGPT apps with harsh age ratings App developers get relief from Google tax in one of Android’s biggest markets Spotify app update finally lets you separate your music and podcasts Audio / Video Apps Music Streaming Services Podcasts Sci-Fi Tech News Mobile Whether you enjoy immersing yourself in gritty crime dramas or prefer using your commute time to listen to self-help tips, podcasts have something for everyone. But where can you find these cool podcasts? If you're an iOS user, you have a lot to choose from. From the classic Apple Podcasts app to popular free podcast apps, we've rounded up the list of the best podcast apps for iOS users.
Want to up your listening game? Check out our guide to the best music apps and the best audiobook apps.
Apple Podcasts Sometimes the classic is the best. The native Apple Podcasts app comes pre-setup and is free to use, so you likely won't need to look at other podcast apps at all. You get access to millions of podcasts, including some of the most popular ones like The Daily and Stuff You Should Know. While the free version is more than enough, you can also buy subscriptions to specific podcasts to enjoy additional benefits. Apple Podcasts hosts several subscriber-only shows like podcasts by CNN, NPR, and The Washington Post. Like Subtstack, some creators offer both free and paid content, so you can decide whether you enjoy their episodes before subscribing.
Apple Podcasts also offers personalized recommendations based on your listening history so you can always find interesting episodes based on your interests. It works with Siri so you just ask the assistant to play any episode or playlist of your choice, so you can listen hands-free while working out or doing chores.
iOS Overcast Audio / Video Nuclear weapons experts have a phrase: "Bouncing the rubble." It's what happens when you use more firepower than what's needed to actually kill a thing. At some point, you're just blowing up things that already have been blown up. And that's where we're at just minutes after Variety broke the news that already was pretty likely — CNN+ is being killed after about a month of life. The New York Times reported that the end date is set for April 30.
CNN's Brian Stelter and Oliver Darcy confirmed the news in a story ... on CNN.
Mobile It looks like Instagram’s stand-alone messaging app, called Threads, will soon be shutting down as part of an ongoing consolidation of messaging apps by Meta (the company formerly known as Facebook that owns Instagram).
Threads arrived in 2019 as a stand-alone alternative to direct messaging in the Instagram app. Basically, Threads was to Instagram what Facebook Messenger is to Facebook.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
