Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Why is your Duolingo app melting? Here’s why it looks weird By Joe Maring Close Digital Trends If you’re like me, Duolingo is one of the most-used apps on your smartphone.
 From extending my streak to getting higher up on the leaderboard, it’s an app I frequent quite often on any given day. As such, it took me by surprise this morning when I saw that my Duolingo app was melting. Where Duo’s cute, smiling face usually sits is now a melted version with his eyes and beak drooping down. It’s honestly kind of terrifying.
Why Duolingo is melting How to get rid of the Duolingo melting icon Is this a Halloween-themed trend? Is the app broken? Is Duo just going through a rough patch? Here’s what we know about Duo’s new, melted appearance.
Why Duolingo is melting The real reason behind the melting Duolingo app is actually pretty simple.
After numerous people started freaking out over Duo’s new , discombobulated look, a Duolingo spokesperson issued a statement to Distractify with the following explanation: Apple used this free iPhone app to shoot Monday’s Scary Fast event Here’s why your phone got an emergency alert today Blackmagic releases free pro-level app for shooting video on iPhone “The melting Duo you see is a new app icon that learners will see for a limited time. If learners have the latest version of the Duolingo app downloaded, they should see Melting Duo as the app icon. The purpose of the new app icon is to encourage learners to open the app.” No, nothing is wrong with Duo. Everyone’s favorite internet owl is perfectly happy and healthy — he’s just trying to get your attention to open the app and catch up on your Spanish lessons.
How to get rid of the Duolingo melting icon Digital Trends As ingenious of a stunt as the melting Duolingo icon is, there’s a chance not everyone will want to see a half-melted owl on their home screen. Luckily, there are a couple of ways to get rid of it.
If you subscribe to Super Duolingo or Duoling Max, you can get rid of the melting Duolingo app and replace it with a Super or Max-themed one instead. From the Duolingo app home screen, tap the Duo icon at the top right of the screen, scroll down to Super App Icon or Max App Icon , and tap Turn On.
This replaces the melting Duolingo app icon with the Super or Max one (depending on which membership you have).
Alternatively, if you’re a part of Duolingo’s Streak Society, you can change the app icon this way, too. From the Duolingo home screen, select the fire/streak icon near the top of your screen, scroll down to the Streak Society section, and choose Change App Icon.
If you get rid of the melting Duolingo app but decide you want it back, tap the same Change App Icon button and then tap Restore Original Icon.
Editors' Recommendations Lapse app: what you need to know about the new Instagram killer I’ve been using Android 14 for months. Here’s why you’re going to love it Here’s what iOS 17’s coolest feature looks like in action Here’s why scientists really want you to clean your smartwatch Your Fitbit app is about to get a major update. Here’s what it looks like Apps Tech News Mobile Don’t believe everything you see, but there’s a certain joy in imagining products with a futuristic touch to them. One such fantastical element of the smartphone industry is a truly bezel-free all-screen phone. And as implausible as that sounds, it looks like Apple might be the one to achieve it — and at the biggest scale imaginable.
According to South Korean outlet The Elec, Apple has reportedly asked, “Samsung Display and LG Display to develop an OLED that removes all front bezels from the iPhone.” Apple has been painfully slow at eliminating the bezel on iPhones and continues to sell the iPhone SE (2022), which should ideally exist in an era that is half a decade too persistent.
Mobile WhatsApp has announced a much-requested edit feature that lets you alter a message within 15 minutes of sending it.
“From correcting a simple misspelling to adding extra context to a message, we’re excited to bring you more control over your chats,” Meta-owned WhatsApp said in a blog post introducing the handy feature.
Mobile Seemingly out of nowhere, OpenAI released its official ChatGPT iOS app this week. Available for both iPhones and iPads, the free app allows you to use the popular AI chatbot in a much simpler, easier way than ever before. No more messing with the mobile website or trying to fiddle with uncertain third-party apps — just download the official ChatGPT application, and you're good to go.
It's a big step forward to make ChatGPT more accessible and to get it into the hands of more people. Naturally, I was curious to test it out for myself. I've been using the ChatGPT iPhone app to ask the chatbot various questions, and while the whole thing works just like you'd expect, there's one big, glaring problem that makes me never want to touch the app again.
The ChatGPT iPhone app's biggest limitation ChatGPT (left) vs. Perplexity AI (right) Digital Trends Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
