Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Social Media Guides How to set your Facebook Feed to show most recent posts By Anita George Close Facebook's Feed recommendations aren't always helpful. The Feed is designed to recommend content you'd most likely want to see, and it's based on your Facebook activity, your connections, and the level of engagement a given post receives.
How to view your Facebook Feed chronologically: desktop/web method How to view your Facebook Feed chronologically: mobile app method But not every Facebook user cares about seeing the most popular posts or Facebook's attempts to understand what you'd like to see. Sometimes, you just want to keep it simple and see the latest posts that have been shared. If that's you, it's important to know that you're not just stuck with Facebook's Feed algorithm. You can sort your Feed to show its most recent posts — and we can show you how.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Facebook account PC or mobile device Facebook mobile app or a web browser on desktop How to view your Facebook Feed chronologically: desktop/web method If you use Facebook on the web via your PC, the process for viewing your Feed chronologically (the most recent posts) is simple enough. Here's what to do: Step 1: Open up your favorite web browser on your PC and go to Facebook.com.
 Once you're there, log in to your account if you haven't already.
Step 2: Once you're logged in, the first thing you should see is your Feed. To view your Feed posts chronologically, navigate to the left-side menu and select the See all option.
screenshot How to deactivate your Instagram account (or delete it) Meta already verified me to influence elections — so why do I have to pay for a checkmark? How to post a Short on YouTube Step 3: Then in the menu that appears, under the Social header, select the Feeds option.
On the Feeds page, you'll see a feed of Facebook posts that are already sorted to show the most recent posts at the top. At first, this page will default to showing you the All tab, which shows all posts from your friends and followed pages.
But if you want, you can narrow down your Feed to just show chronological posts from your Favorites , Friends , Groups , and Pages – just select one of these tabs to only see those kinds of posts chronologically.
screenshot How to view your Facebook Feed chronologically: mobile app method The following instructions were written about and tested on an Android device, but they should be similarly applicable to iOS devices.
Here's how to chronologically view your Facebook Feed on the mobile app.
Step 1: Open the Facebook app on your mobile device. Your app should default to showing you the home Feed, which will display all the Top Posts but not necessarily the most recent ones.
Step 2: To see the most recent posts, tap on the Menu icon that looks like your profile picture with three horizontal lines in front of it. On Android, this is in the top right corner of your screen.
On the Menu screen, under the All shortcuts header, select the Feeds option.
screenshot Step 3: The Feeds screen has its own subsections that you can select to further narrow down your newly chronologically-sorted feed: All , Favorites , Friends , Groups , and Pages.
Each of the subsections on the Feeds screen should show you their respective posts chronologically, with the most recent posts at the top.
screenshot Editors' Recommendations How to use Meta Threads on the web How to get your share of Facebook’s $750M settlement How to block people on Snapchat What does the lock mean on Snapchat? How to use TikTok’s voice changer Computing Apps Facebook How-To Guides Social Media BeReal posts are meant to show you as you are, but sometimes that level of authenticity is just too awkward to post. Sometimes the app's automatic selfie capture takes a selfie that's just too goofy to share with your friends.
Or maybe you'd just rather take a photo of something else for today's BeReal prompt. In any case, if you're unhappy with a BeReal post you just published, don't worry. You can delete it. And we can show you how. We'll go over what you need to know about deleting BeReal posts and then we'll guide you step-by-step on how to properly delete a BeReal post.
Social Media BeReal has recently become a pretty popular social media app, and if you're wondering what all the fuss is about, you've come to the right place.
In the following sections, we'll go over everything you need to know about the new photo-sharing app that has everyone talking and sharing photos of themselves with their friends at random times of the day.
What is BeReal? Social Media YouTube recently announced a number of changes to its video-watching interface. One of these changes is a new feature known as Ambient Mode.
In this guide, we'll go over exactly what Ambient Mode on YouTube is and show you how to enable or disable it.
What is Ambient Mode on YouTube? Ambient Mode is basically a lighting effect that surrounds a given YouTube video with a soft, glowing light that usually reflects the colors featured in the video itself. The effect kind of resembles the glow of a television screen in a room where the lights are off (which YouTube has said was the inspiration for the effect). YouTube also said that Ambient Mode is supposed to make the video-watching experience of its dark mode "more immersive." Ambient Mode was officially announced in late-October 2022 and is available on the web, Android, and iOS.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
