Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Products Apple Watch SE 2 vs. Apple Watch SE By Ayush Chourasia Close After two years of waiting, Apple has refreshed its most affordable smartwatch, releasing the Apple Watch SE 2. While the visual changes are minimal, the device brings some important upgrades and a bunch of new features. Despite these changes, the price hasn’t increased — instead, it has gone down, making the Apple Watch SE 2 an even more exciting upgrade.
Specs Design and display Performance, battery life, and charging Fitness and health-tracking features Software and updates Special features Price and availability Overall winner: Apple Watch SE 2 The Apple Watch SE 2 rocks the latest-generation chipset powering its pricier siblings, the Apple Watch Series 8 and the Apple Watch Ultra.
 However, it does not include the blood oxygen sensor and the temperature sensor. If these seem necessary to you, we suggest you skip the Apple Watch SE 2. For everyone else, the entry-level Watch SE seems to be a solid option. Here, we compare the Apple Watch SE 2 with its predecessor to find out what’s different and whether an upgrade is the best choice for you.
Specs Apple Watch SE 2 Apple Watch SE Display size 40mm: 1.53 inches 44mm: 1.78 inches 40mm: 1.53 inches 44mm: 1.78 inches Body size 40mm 44mm 40mm 44mm Resolution in pixels 40mm: 394 x 324 44mm: 448 x 368 40mm: 394 x 324 44mm: 448 x 368 Touchscreen 40mm: LTPO OLED Retina 44mm: LTPO OLED Retina 40mm: LTPO OLED Retina 44mm: LTPO OLED Retina Storage 32GB 32GB Wireless interface Bluetooth 5.0, Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, NFC, LTE Bluetooth 5.0, Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, NFC, LTE Depth 0.41 inches / 10.5mm 0.41 inches / 10.5mm Blood oxygen sensor No No Accelerometer Yes Yes Gyroscope Yes Yes Ambient light sensor Yes Yes Heart rate sensor Yes Yes Barometer Yes Yes GPS Yes Yes Compass Yes Yes Water/dust resistant IP6X IP6X Battery life Up to 18 hours (36 hours in Low Power mode) Up to 18 hours (36 hours in Low Power mode with watchOS 9) Price From $249 From $279 Availability Apple Apple DT review 4.5 out of 5 stars 4.5 out of 5 stars Design and display Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The new Apple Watch SE looks very similar to the previous-gen model. It has a square, pebble-shaped design and is made from 100% recycled aluminum, with a nylon composite matching back. Since the change is subtle, it provides a balanced look. Both have two sizes options available — 40mm and 44mm — and both have an LTPO retina display with a brightness of 1,000 nits. The smaller size sports a 1.57-inch display with a resolution of 394 x 324 pixels, while the larger model packs a 1.78-inch display with a resolution of 448 x 368 pixels. This means the larger model is likely to look crisper and clearer, though since it’s such a small display, you may not notice.
There’s absolutely no change in case sizes and display resolution when compared to the previous model. However, we think the matching back color on the Apple Watch SE 2 gives it a slight edge in style.
Winner: Apple Watch SE (2022) Performance, battery life, and charging Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Apple Watch SE 2 is powered by the S8 SiP chipset, a dual-core chipset based on a 7nm manufacturing process. Apple claims the new chipset is 20% faster than its predecessor, but really, Apple Watches are fairly fast and speedy anyway, and you’re unlikely to be playing anything demanding on the tiny screen, so ultimately, the boost in processing power is somewhat negligible. However, it does mean the newer model is likely to stay faster when updating to newer versions of watchOS, so there’s definitely a benefit here.
According to Apple, the battery on Apple Watch SE 2 should last for 18 hours — the same as the Apple Watch Series 8. In our review, the watch lasted for even longer. It lasted two full days, with a single non-GPS tracked workout, all the usual notifications, a permanent connection to your phone, and sleep tracking. There’s no fast charging on Watch SE 2, though, so it takes two hours for a complete charge. The original Apple Watch SE had a two-day battery life, too, and a similar charging speed.
Battery life and charging time are similar on the two models, so it comes down to the extra processing power on the newer model.
Winner: Apple Watch SE 2 Fitness and health-tracking features Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The updated heart rate sensor didn’t make its way to the Apple Watch SE 2, so it still relies on an optical sensor for heart tracking. An ECG tracker (available on Apple Watch Series 4 and later) provides detailed insight about your heartbeat, which can be presented to a doctor in case of abnormal readings. Since the Apple Watch SE 2 has an optical heart rate sensor, expect notifications for abnormally high or low heart rates and irregular heart rhythms only.
The Apple Watch SE was one of the first Apple Watches to get the sleep tracking feature.
 Along with this, you get features such as noise detection, fall detection, and cycle tracking (period tracking). The workout app on the Watch has a plethora of activities that you can track. This includes water sports such as swimming, rowing, and casual diving. For the same, it has a water resistance of up to 50 meters.
There’s also a new Medications app that manages and tracks medication, vitamins, and supplements. It also sends reminders to take medicines. Since the data is synced to the Apple Health app on iPhone, you can also get a detailed outlook of your upcoming medications. Finally, the Digital Crown is now mapped to swap between workout views. So you can turn it switch to your favorite workout activity.
The Apple Watch SE 2 and Watch SE pack the same sensors, including a gyroscope, accelerometer, heart rate (2nd-gen), barometer, always-on altimeter, and compass. However, the accelerometer and gyroscope have been updated on the new model. This should theoretically offer better fall detection and wins this round.
Winner: Apple Watch SE 2 Software and updates Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Apple Watch SE 2 ships with the latest watchOS 9. It’s available for a bunch of older Apple Watches, including the Apple Watch SE. Since watchOS 9 is a hefty upgrade, it may not run as fluidly as on the older hardware, so keep that in mind.
The watchOS 9 update brings a host of improvements. New watch faces have been added, existing watch faces have been updated, and Focus Mode can be triggered from specific watch faces. The Compass app has also been redesigned as part of watchOS 9 , adding the ability to set waypoints and backtrack when required. This is great for hiking, outdoor enthusiasts, or anyone who finds themselves on trails with no network.
The original Watch SE is eligible for the watchOS 9 update, so there’s practically no difference in software between the two devices.
Winner: Tie Special features Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Apple Watch SE 2 gets a new high-g accelerometer chip, which is essential for the crash detection feature.
 This is a bit of a surprise, as Apple usually reserves such features for its top-end offerings. Crash detection utilizes motion sensors and an advanced sensor-fusion algorithm to detect a severe car crash. As soon as the watch detects a crash, it checks in with the user and dials emergency services if they do not respond within a countdown of 10 seconds.
Besides crash detection, you get Apple Pay for NFC payments and Family Setup that lets you manage devices for members of your family. So your child or older parent will be able to make a phone call, send messages, and share their location even if they don’t own iPhone. Of course, all of this can be monitored by you.
Crash detection is a significant feature, and that alone makes the Apple Watch SE 2 a winner as compared to its predecessor.
Winner: Apple Watch SE 2 Price and availability Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Apple Watch SE 2 starts at $249 for the 40mm GPS, while the 44mm model costs $279. Add cellular connectivity, and the price goes up to $299 and $329, respectively. In comparison, the GPS models of Apple Watch SE were launched at $279 and $309, whereas the LTE models came in at $329 and $359, respectively.
Overall winner: Apple Watch SE 2 The new Apple Watch SE 2 is a worthy successor to the two-year-old Watch SE. It gets the latest chipset along with software, so you have nearly all the features that the higher-end Apple Watches possess. Add crash detection, and Watch SE 2 becomes irresistible, especially if you have an iPhone. This device absolutely makes sense for someone who is new to the Apple ecosystem and would settle without ECG, SpO2, and temperature tracking.
 It is also great for someone who plans to upgrade from something like the Apple Watch Series 3, which misses out on the watchOS 9 update.
Should you upgrade from the old Apple Watch SE to the new one? That’s a trickier question to answer, and we’re erring toward “no.” While the SE2 is clearly the more advanced Apple Watch, the upgrades are fairly minimal. If you’re buying a new Apple Watch, you should definitely pick the new SE 2 over the old one. If you’re still using an Apple Watch SE and it’s running fine, wait for the next generation.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday smartwatch deals: Apple, Samsung, Garmin, and more Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes Here’s our first look at OnePlus’ next Apple Watch killer Subscriptions are quickly ruining fitness trackers Apple Apple Watch Versus Wearables Mobile Black Friday deals have begun early at Walmart with some fantastic Apple Watch deals meaning that the Apple Watch Series 9 is enjoying its first big discount. Usually priced at $399 for the 41mm model and $429 for the 45mm model, you can now save $50 off the regular prices and snag an Apple Watch Series 9 from just $349. Sure to be popular, let's take a quick look at what it offers before you hit the buy button.
Apple Watch Series 9 (41mm, GPS) -- $349, was $399: Apple Watch Series 9 (45mm, GPS) -- $379, was $429: Mobile Google Pixel Watch 2 Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends The Google Pixel Watch was clearly a laggard when it launched last year. It was easily overlooked beside more tempting options in the Wear OS dominion, and grossly overshadowed by the popularity of the Apple Watch. This year, Google looks to switch things up by bringing massive improvements with the Google Pixel Watch 2 that launched alongside the Pixel 8 Series of phones at Google's Fall 2023 event.
Mobile I really like the Apple Watch Ultra, but I also like watches in general. Recently, I was in a situation where I didn’t need to track any activity but still wanted to wear a tough watch that not only fitted in with a muddy, grubby, harsh environment — but could cope with it should the need arise.
I turned to the recently released Casio G-Shock GW-9500 Mudman, and while it’s not a smartwatch, it was the perfect choice for the day. Later, I wondered if this Bluetooth-free, seemingly indestructible watch could actually be an alternative to the Apple Watch Ultra. Is it? Here's what I learned.
The right watch for off-roading My Land Rover for the day — before it got very muddy indeed Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
