Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Products Apple Watch Series 8 vs. Apple Watch Series 7 By Jackie Dove Close This year’s Apple Watch Series 8 and last year’s Apple Watch Series 7 are strikingly similar, both offering a vast array of fitness and functionality that far exceed any competing smartwatch brand currently available. The biggest distinctions between the Watch 7 and Watch 8 are some high-end health and safety features that Apple has added to the newest model.
Specs Design and display Performance, battery life, and charging Fitness and health-tracking features Software and updates Special features Price and availability Overall winner: Apple Watch Series 8 Instead of piling a load of specialty features and updates onto its general audience of iPhone users, Apple opted to break out and target high-end sports enthusiasts with a brand new Apple Watch Ultra that’s engineered especially for the adventurous crowd. For the rest of us perhaps trying to decide if or when to replace an older civilian model, Apple has made the decision much easier with the mid-tier Apple Watch 8. We compare and contrast the new Apple Watch Series 8 and the Apple Watch Series 7 to detail what has changed and what has stayed the same.
Specs Apple Watch Series 8 Apple Watch Series 7 Display size 41mm: 1.53 inches 45mm: 1.78 inches 41mm: 1.53 inches 45mm: 1.78 inches Body size 41mm 45mm 41mm 45mm Resolution in pixels 41mm: 352 x 430 45mm: 396 x 484 41mm: 352 x 430 45mm: 396 x 484 Touchscreen 41mm: LTPO OLED Retina Always-on display45mm: LTPO OLED Retina Always-on display 41mm: LTPO OLED Retina Always-on display45mm: LTPO OLED Retina Always-on display Storage 32GB 32GB Wireless interface Bluetooth 5.0, Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, NFC, LTE Bluetooth 5.0, Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, NFC, LTE Depth 0.41 inches / 10.5mm 0.41 inches / 10.5mm Blood oxygen sensor Yes Yes Accelerometer Yes Yes Gyroscope Yes Yes Ambient light sensor Yes Yes Heart rate sensor Yes Yes Barometer Yes Yes GPS Yes Yes Compass Yes Yes Water/dust resistant IP6X IP6X Battery life Up to 18 hours (36 hours in Low Power mode) Up to 18 hours (36 hours in Low Power mode with WatchOS 9) Price From $399 From $399 Availability Apple Apple DT review 4.5 out of 5 stars 5 out of 5 stars Design and display Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends At first glance, it’s hard to tell the difference between the 2021 Apple Watch Series 7 and the new Apple Watch Series 8.
 They both sport the same signature square Apple Watch design, dimensions, and weight and are available in the same 41mm and 45mm case sizes. There are a few subtle differences in colors and finishes. The Apple Watch Series 8 comes in aluminum and stainless steel only, while the Series 7 offered a titanium option, which now appears to be reserved exclusively for the hard-core, adventure-centric Apple Watch Ultra.
 Both versions have the same color choices for the stainless steel models — silver, gold, Graphite, and Space Black — though Series 7 has more color options on the aluminum models, including blue, green, red, Starlight, and Midnight. Series 8 eliminated the green and blue hues but added silver while keeping the red, Starlight, and Midnight colors.
The 41mm Apple Watch Series 8 features an always-on LTPO Retina OLED display with a resolution of 352 x 430 pixels, while the 45mm model resolution is 396 x 484 pixels — identical to the previous models. The aluminum model’s screen is covered by the Ion-X front glass, while the premium stainless steel model gets the tougher sapphire crystal covering. The screen can reach a peak brightness of 1,000 nits, while the storage capacity is 32GB, both the same as the Apple Watch Series 7. New watch faces for Series 8 include Lunar, Astronomy, Modular, and Metropolitan.
There’s no immediate visible difference between the two Apple Watch models. This is a draw.
Winner: Tie Performance, battery life, and charging Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Series 8 features a new dual-core S8 system-in-chip that Apple says is 20% faster than the S7 chip of the previous generation. Connectivity for the new series includes LTE, Wi-fi 802.11 b/g/n, and Bluetooth 5.0 for wireless pairing with other devices — the same as its predecessor. The new watch’s battery should last some 18 hours on a single charge, identical to the previous watch series. Our testing supports that claim and then some. After a full day’s use, we found the battery life ended in the 30% to 40% remaining range. That economical battery usage was consistent even through fitness workouts, a day’s worth of notifications, and timer usage, alongside the always-on screen.
If that doesn’t go far enough, the Apple Watch Series 8’s new Low Power mode lets your watch operate for up to 36 hours on a single charge. This is twice the rated 18-hour battery life. It can do that because Low Power mode disables some services and features like the always-on Retina display, workout autostart, and heart health notifications while maintaining most operations in normal mode. Both watches support magnetic wireless charging, with a full charge complete within an hour.
Winner: Apple Watch Series 8 Fitness and health-tracking features Apple Apple announced two new temperature sensors for the Apple Watch 8 — a new skin temperature sensor that’s designed to detect a 0.1 degree Celsius temperature change in your body and a sensor underneath the screen to measure temperature fluctuations during sleep. The Watch 8 takes your wrist temperature during sleep every five seconds, which Apple says can help you recognize illnesses early and assist with ovulation tracking. It can also fine-tune menstrual predictions by alerting wearers to unexpected cycle deviations. Irregular menstrual cycles can indicate health issues, and that’s where the temperature-sensing data can be of service to women and families. As our reviewer noted, the stats will show up in the Health app, but with no clue as to what they mean or what to do about them, if anything.
Other sensors with the Series 8 watch include a blood oxygen sensor to measure SpO2 levels, an electric heart sensor for measuring electrocardiogram (ECG), a third-generation optical heart rate sensor for pulse tracking, an ambient light sensor, an updated high-G accelerometer, and a gyroscope. These sensors are not new but are fine-tuned, updated versions of features already present in the Apple Watch Series 7.
Winner: Apple Watch Series 8 Software and updates Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Apple Watch Series 8 ships with the latest operating system — WatchOS 9 — already installed, and the new OS is currently available for older Apple Watch models. The updated operating system carries most of the weight, and WatchOS 9 is available to Series 4 and later watch models. Some of the newer features will be restricted to connected iPhones running iOS 16 or later. The Series 8 is an upgrade over the Series 7, so expect to get more done more quickly on the new model, but the speed will likely not be obvious to most casual users.
The new WatchOS debuts four new watch faces, several Workout app updates, improved sleep tracking, atrial fibrillation (AFib) history, and a new Medications app. The Compass app, when used with the new Backtrack feature, comes in quite handy in helping the direction-challenged find their way back to a hike starting point and even lets you record landmarks you can check off along the way. Anyone who’s ever been lost on a hike as it’s getting dark knows how valuable this can be.
Winner: Apple Watch Series 8 Special features Apple The Apple Watch Series 8, like the Series 7, has an Always-On display, fall detection, and all the watch faces you know and love. A big distinction between Apple Watch 8 and its predecessors is two new and improved sensors that advance safety and peace of mind for families. A three-axis gyroscope and a G-Force accelerometer that records 3,000 samples per second can detect when you are in a vehicle crash. Crash detection uses sensors and features like the barometer, GPS, and microphone on your new iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Pro to determine the intensity of the accident. We did not test this feature firsthand, but others did and confirmed that in a fairly realistic testing environment involving actual collisions, the feature worked as advertised with the iPhone 14. When it does detect a severe crash, the Apple Watch 8 automatically calls 911 for help, provides your location, and notifies your emergency contacts if you don’t respond to an on-screen notification within 10 seconds.
Both watch versions offer a water resistance rating of up to 50 meters and IP6X dust resistance, but the crash detection really pushes the Series 8 to the win here.
Winner: Apple Watch Series 8 Price and availability Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Apple Watch Series 8 is available in the U.S. and over 40 countries. The base model with GPS connectivity and 41mm case size costs $399, while models with cellular connectivity start at $499. The 45mm model starts at $429, while its cellular sibling costs $529.
For Apple Watch Series 8 buyers, Apple is bundling a free three-month subscription to Apple Fitness+ — a discount from the standalone purchase price of $10 per month or $80 per year. Best Buy is also throwing in four months of free Apple Fitness+, Apple News+, and Apple Music subscriptions as a bonus on select models for U.S. buyers.
Apple is no longer selling the Series 7 directly, but it’s still available at a discount at Amazon and Walmart.
Winner: Apple Watch Series 8 Overall winner: Apple Watch Series 8 The Apple Watch Series 8 is a worthy successor to the Apple Watch Series 7 because its upgrades are substantial and non-cosmetic. Nonetheless, the ‌Apple Watch Series 8‌ is a minor upgrade over the Series 7, with the body temperature sensors and Crash Detection feature the only significant changes. For Apple Watch Series 7 owners, the Series 8 is objectively a superior wrist computer, but unless you genuinely need the specific new features introduced in Series 8, consider yourself lucky to already possess such a useful and beautiful device in which most major specs remain the same.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday smartwatch deals: Apple, Samsung, Garmin, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Apple Watch Ultra 2 just got its first serious discount Apple Watch is bringing back a popular feature soon The best Garmin Watch Black Friday deals you can shop now Apple Apple Watch Versus Wearables Mobile OnePlus’ first attempt at making a smartwatch was mostly a meh attempt, even though it looked extremely sleek. The biggest drawback, of course, was the software. It was essentially a bare-bones software reskinning atop a very basic real-time operating system (RTOS) foundation.
Put simply, it was a not an app-loving operating system and was far away from the deep functional goodness that the likes of Google’s Wear OS and Apple’s watchOS have to offer. The second attempt, which just surfaced online, could atone for those sins.
Leaker OnLeaks (via MySmartPrice) has shared alleged renders of the second-generation OnePlus Watch. Instead of mimicking what Samsung and Fossil have done with their smartwatches, OnePlus seems to be chasing an original design that blends a round dial and a flattened right edge reminiscent of Casio’s G-Shock series timepieces.
The metallic arms extend a little further from the main frame compared to what we’ve seen on Samsung’s recent Galaxy Watches. It’s a subjective aesthetic deviation, but from the top, it seems the arms could offer a more secure grip on the strap attachments.
But the juiciest elements of the latest leak are the chip inside and the software shift it could bring to the table. OnePlus will reportedly go for the Qualcomm Snapdragon W5 Gen 1 chip, a wearable platform that is a familiar name in the Wear OS territory.
The leaked report doesn’t explicitly go into the details of a OnePlus-ified Wear OS experience on the smartwatch, but that Qualcomm chip is a little too overpowered for RTOS, so there’s that. There's also a separate report from leaker Max Jambor, who claims that the OnePlus Watch 2 will indeed be powered by Wear OS — specifically, Wear OS 4.
https://twitter.com/MaxJmb/status/1723031095896076776?s=20 Embracing Wear OS not only saves OnePlus the trouble of managing an entirely custom software experience on its own — it also adds a whole dimension of convenience for users. The biggest and most notable advantage would be the availability of apps and seamless cross-device linking with Android phones.
Mobile Once upon a time, you could buy a fitness tracker like a Fitbit, strap it on your wrist, and go about your life. There’d be a companion app that would sync with your tracker, giving you an in-depth look at your daily activity, health stats, and even sleep tracking. All of this data was available for free; you just had to buy the tracker itself. One and done.
But things aren’t so simple now. Sure, you do have smartwatches like the Apple Watch that can also keep track of your daily activity and health metrics, but there’s a whole other world of dedicated fitness and health trackers as well. These typically can provide even more in-depth data about your health and well-being, but a lot of them have, unfortunately, moved to subscription-based models. Though they may have free tiers available, they’re almost worthless with the information you get without paying.
Mobile Black Friday deals have begun early at Walmart with some fantastic Apple Watch deals meaning that the Apple Watch Series 9 is enjoying its first big discount. Usually priced at $399 for the 41mm model and $429 for the 45mm model, you can now save $50 off the regular prices and snag an Apple Watch Series 9 from just $349. Sure to be popular, let's take a quick look at what it offers before you hit the buy button.
Apple Watch Series 9 (41mm, GPS) -- $349, was $399: Apple Watch Series 9 (45mm, GPS) -- $379, was $429: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
