Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 Review Google Pixel Watch vs Apple Watch Series 8 Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Is the Apple Watch Series 8 Waterproof? Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Home Mobile Products Apple Watch Series 8 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: Should you spend $399 or $799? By Hinshal Sharma Close Apple unveiled the iPhone 14 series earlier at its Far Out event , along with a handful of other products. The company updated its wearable lineup with the latest Apple Watch Series 8 and also launched the new Apple Watch Ultra — its biggest and most rugged smartwatch yet.
Specs Design and display Fitness and health tracking features Performance, battery life, and charging Software and special features Price and availability Overall winner: Apple Watch Ultra The Apple Watch Series 8 offers a handful of new features over the Watch Series 7 , like crash detection , better menstrual cycle tracking, and skin temperature tracking while you sleep. The Watch Ultra, on the other hand, brings a new design, better battery life, and ruggedness that we’ve not seen on any other Apple Watch before.
If you’re eyeing a new Apple Watch or thinking of upgrading from one of the previous models, the Watch Series 8 and the Watch Ultra are the best smartwatches the company offers. In case you’re wondering which one you should go for, we’ve compared these wearables head to head to help you choose the watch that suits you better.
Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes Apple Watch Series 9 just got its first big discount for Black Friday Specs Apple Watch Series 8 Apple Watch Ultra Display size 41mm: 1.53 inches 45mm: 1.78 inches 49mm: 1.92 inches Body size 41mm 45mm 49mm Resolution in pixels 41mm: 352 x 430 45mm: 396 x 484 49mm: 502 x 410 Touchscreen 41mm: LTPO OLED Retina Always-on display 45mm: LTPO OLED Retina Always-on display 49mm: LTPO OLED Retina Always-on display Storage 32GB 32GB Wireless interface Bluetooth 5.3, Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, NFC, LTE Bluetooth 5.3, Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, NFC, LTE Case materials Aluminum, stainless steel Titanium Blood oxygen sensor Yes Yes Accelerometer Yes Yes Gyroscope Yes Yes Ambient light sensor Yes Yes Heart rate sensor Yes Yes Barometer Yes Yes GPS Yes Yes Compass Yes Yes Water/dust resistant IP6X IP6X Battery life Up to 18 hours (36 hours in Low Power mode) Up to 36 hours (60 hours in Low Power mode) Price From $399 From $799 Availability Apple Apple DT review 4.5 out of 5 stars 5 out of 5 stars Design and display 1.
Apple Watch Series 8 2.
Apple Watch Ultra Apple Watches, over the years, have rocked a very similar design. The Apple Watch Series 8 carries the trend forward, featuring aesthetics reminiscent of its previous iterations. You get a rectangular dial with a rotating Digital Crown on the right. The Apple Watch Ultra, however, tries to be a little different with minor changes here and there.
Talking about the sizes, the Apple Watch Series 8 gets 41mm and 45mm case options, similar to the Series 7. It’s available in aluminum and stainless steel variants. The cheaper aluminum variants come in Midnight, Starlight, silver, and Product Red colorways; the stainless steel versions offer gold, Graphite, silver, and Space Black color options.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends In contrast, the Watch Ultra is both bigger and thicker, having a size of 49mm. It only comes in a titanium casing with a silver shade. It even gets an additional programmable button on the left side. However, if you have slim wrists, getting one of the Series 8 models would make more sense, as the Watch Ultra would look pretty big.
The 41mm sized Series 8 watch gets a 1.53-inch display, while the 45mm version has a bigger 1.78-inch screen. The Watch Ultra, in comparison, is Apple’s biggest smartwatch yet, with a 1.92-inch display. It gets more screen real estate, and the brightness goes all the way up to 2,000 nits — twice that of the Series 8. The display on the Watch Ultra is flat, unlike curved screens on all Watch Series 8 variants. Always-on display support is also available on them both.
The Apple Watch Ultra gets a bigger and brighter display, an extra programmable button, and is much more durable. It wins this round with ease.
Winner: Apple Watch Ultra Fitness and health tracking features Joe Maring/Digital Trends Apple smartwatches offer excellent fitness and health-tracking features. The new Apple Watch Series 8 and Apple Watch Ultra are no exception. Both these watches have a host of sensors. You get an electrical heart rate sensor to record an electrocardiogram, a SpO2 sensor to measure blood oxygen levels, a heart rate sensor to track pulse rate, a gyroscope, and an accelerometer.
Moreover, you get a new temperature sensor this time.
 It tracks even the slightest of temperature changes through your wrist every five seconds overnight. This would help with better ovulation tracking, as body temperature changes during a menstrual cycle. The watches also notify users of irregular, infrequent, or prolonged periods.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Ultra has some more features to offer. It comes with dual-frequency GPS to track your location precisely. There’s also a Depth app that opens automatically when the watch is submerged to a depth of 1 meter or more, allowing you to measure data like water temperature, underwater duration, etc. In addition, another exclusive app, Oceanic +, lets you use the Watch Ultra as a dive computer.
Overall, both the Apple Watch Series 8 and the Watch Ultra offer plenty of health-tracking features. But the winner here is the latter, thanks to the extra features it comes with.
Winner: Apple Watch Ultra Performance, battery life, and charging Joe Maring / Digital Trends Both watches feature Apple’s newest S8 chipset and perform similarly. From opening apps and starting workouts to managing notifications and more, both the Series 8 and Ultra have all the power you need.
There’s a big difference in the battery life of the Apple Watch Series 8 and the Apple Watch Ultra. While the former delivers the same 18 hours of battery life as the Series 7, the latter doubles it to 36 hours — the best on any Apple smartwatch so far. A new Low Power mode helps the battery last even longer by disabling some features like the always-on display, background heart rate, SpO2 monitoring, etc.
To juice up the battery, Apple uses its own proprietary charging tech and misses out on Qi wireless charging support. Thankfully, there is support for fast charging, and filling up the battery from zero to 100% should take about an hour or so.
The Apple Watch Series 8 and the Apple Watch Ultra perform almost equally in this round. But, owing to better battery life, the latter secures a win.
Winner: Apple Watch Ultra Software and special features Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Both smartwatches run Apple’s latest watchOS 9 software. Four new watch faces, improved sleep tracking and running mode, medication tracking, and a revamped compass app make for some notable changes to the operating system.
Talking about special features, there are quite some of them on offer this time, especially on the Watch Ultra. The Watch Series 8 is water-resistant up to 50 meters, whereas the Watch Ultra can be submerged up to 100 meters. For dust resistance, they’re both IP6X certified.
Two major features debuting with these wearables are car crash detection and a temperature sensor. They use gyroscopes and accelerometers to detect a crash when you’re inside a vehicle. If a crash is detected and you don’t respond to a notification in 10 seconds, your watch will call 911 and notify selected emergency contacts with your location.
Apple The Apple Watch Ultra is a rugged smartwatch aimed at athletes and sports persons and has certain features for the same. You get a more precise dual-frequency GPS that should give you a more accurate signal when running, cycling, hiking, etc.
There’s also an Action Button on the Apple Watch Ultra, which works with some apps and can be programmed to perform a specific action. It can also be used to play an 86-decibel siren on the watch in case of an emergency. According to Apple, the high-pitched siren can be heard up to 600 feet away.
The Watch Ultra has three built-in microphones to capture clearer sound with lesser background noise. It has grabbed MIL-STD 810H certification as well and can withstand harsh climates and temperatures. With plenty of additional features to offer, the Watch Ultra triumphs in this round.
Winner: Apple Watch Ultra Price and availability The Apple Watch Series 8 is available for purchase in the U.S. and other countries. The 41mm variant with GPS connectivity starts at $399, and the 45mm variant is priced at $429. Models with LTE connectivity start at $499 for the 41mm variant and $529 for the 45mm. The rugged Watch Ultra costs almost double at $799.
Overall winner: Apple Watch Ultra Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Series 8 is an excellent smartwatch and has a lot to offer. For most users, it should be the best choice, as it checks all the right boxes with no major drawbacks. Certainly, the Watch Ultra is a lot better, but all those extra features come with double the price. And, if you have small wrists, it’s going to look humongous.
Having said that, if you’re a sports enthusiast or an athlete, or you just want the best Apple smartwatch regardless of its price, pick the Apple Watch Ultra. From the rugged design and outstanding battery life to the helpful Action button and more, it’s the most impressive Apple Watch to date.
Editors' Recommendations Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more Apple Watch Ultra 2 just got its first serious discount Subscriptions are quickly ruining fitness trackers Google Pixel Watch 2 vs. Google Pixel Watch: should you upgrade? I wore a G-Shock watch that rivals the Apple Watch Ultra 2 Apple Apple Watch Versus Wearables Mobile Apple has once again asserted its dominance in the premium smartwatch market by launching the Apple Watch Ultra 2, which replaces the previous model, the original Apple Watch Ultra, after just a year. While the first-generation Apple Watch Ultra was groundbreaking, the latest model is more of an incremental upgrade, with only minor tweaks.
If you own the earlier version of the Apple Watch Ultra, you might be wondering whether it's worth upgrading to the new one. To answer this question, we need to address two central issues: 1) whether you plan on utilizing the fresh features and 2) whether or not you mind paying for the somewhat pricey new device.
Mobile The Apple Watch Series 9 (top) and Apple Watch Series 8 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Apple Watch is more than just a tech gadget; it's also a fashion accessory. Thankfully, Apple gets that, and it's made sure you have a wealth of options to customize and accessorize your wearable. This includes not just a huge assortment of the best Apple Watch bands and straps but also a variety of different watch faces to fit your individual style and even match up with your choice of band.
Mobile Long-standing rumors point to the 2024 Apple Watch being truly special in a few ways. A new design is one of the hot rumors, but it seems Apple wants to make another health-centric leap by allowing the smartwatch to read blood pressure and also look for signs of sleep apnea.
According to Bloomberg, the next Apple Watch will come equipped with a new sensor that will measure variations in blood pressure. A successor slated for arrival in 2025 could measure the exact systolic and diastolic blood pressure values.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
