Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 Review Google Pixel Watch vs Apple Watch Series 8 Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Is the Apple Watch Series 8 Waterproof? Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Apple Watch Deals: Put the smartwatch on your wrist from just $129 By Albert Bassili and Bruce Brown Close The Apple Watch is one of the best smartwatches out there. In general, Samsung, Google, Fitbit and Garmin have products that can compete, but there’s something about the Apple touch that can’t be mimicked. If you have an iPhone, AirPods, or a MacBook, your best option for easy pairing is an Apple Watch. Of course, Apple products come with a premium price. That’s why we’ve picked out the best Apple Watch deals available. There are currently discounts on all the newest models like the Series 8, SE 2 and Ultra, as well as some older models like the Series 7. Check them out below.
Apple Watch Nike SE (1st Gen, 40mm, GPS) — $129, was $279 Apple Watch Series 4 (44mm, GPS) (Refurbished) — $149 Apple Watch Series 6 (44 mm, GPS) (Refurbished) — $171, was $529 Apple Watch Series 5 (40mm, GPS) (Renewed) — $179, was $190 Apple Watch SE (2nd Gen, 44mm, GPS) (Renewed) — $219 Apple Watch Series 8 (41mm, GPS) — $299, was $399 Apple Watch Nike SE (1st Gen, 40mm, GPS) — $129, was $279 Apple This is the Nike edition of the Apple Watch SE (1st Gen) , which remains a popular choice for anyone dipping their toe into the Apple Watch world without spending a fortune. Still a great choice for most people, the watch allows you to track all your daily activities from walks to runs, HIIT workouts, to tai chi or yoga. You can also monitor your calorie burn and steps taken with a built-in compass and real-time elevation readings that are ideal for hikers. As well as that, there are high and low heart rate notifications, a heads up if your heart rate suddenly becomes irregular, and extensive notifications to save you from grabbing your phone. The Nike Edition includes the built-in Nike Run Club app.
Apple Watch Series 4 (44mm, GPS) (Refurbished) — $149 Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends / .
The Apple Watch Series 4 is the one from 2018. This version is a refurbished version that is rated by the supplier as being in “fair” condition. To back that up, it comes with a 1-year warranty. Our Apple Watch Series 4 review complimented the smartwatch for its user-friendly operation and consistent reminders to get up and get fit. At the time, it absolutely blew the best Fitbit watches out of the water with its performance. It contains 16GB of storage.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Apple Watch Series 6 (44 mm, GPS) (Refurbished) — $171, was $529 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / .
Coming out in September of 2022, the Apple Watch Series 6 might’ve missed your radar considering the pandemic that was — at the time — shaking up people’s fitness routines. (Though it did include a pulse oximeter and ECG capabilities.) We still got our hands on it, though, and our Apple Watch Series 6 review confirms what you might’ve thought about this smartwatch: It was quite fantastic. The review highlights our love of the always-on display, which makes the watch more useful, and visually compelling. It’s also one of the first differences you’ll notice when you compare the Apple Watch Series 6 vs the SE.
 This copy of the Apple Watch Series 6 is refurbished at the “fair” level and is backed up by a 1-year warranty.
Apple Watch Series 5 (40mm, GPS) (Renewed) — $179, was $190 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Apple Watch Series 5 has features that include an accelerometer, heart rate monitor, swimproof design, and an always-on retina display. The sale copy that is part of this deal is a renewed “Pink Sand” band, gold aluminum case edition. It is part of Amazon Renewed products, which means it was refurbished and tested to be functional according to Amazon standards. This product is rated as being in “excellent” condition and comes with a 90-day guarantee from Amazon. The Apple Watch Series 5 has been praised for the comprehensive look it provides of your health.
Apple Watch SE (2nd Gen, 44mm, GPS) (Renewed) — $219 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Apple Watch SE 2 is simple yet brilliant. It’s 20% faster than the previous Apple Watch SE and is highly capable of tracking all your daily activities as well as any fitness trends. An enhanced workout app proves useful and you get heart rate notifications as needed too. The standout features include fall detection and crash detection which could potentially be a lifesaver for you. It also has sleep stage tracking so you can see how much time you spend in REM, core, and deep sleep, plus its battery lasts two days. This copy of the Apple Watch SE 2 is renewed by Amazon and is rated to be in “excellent” condition. It has a 90-day warranty.
Apple Watch Series 8 (41mm, GPS) — $299, was $399 Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Series 8 is the perfect smartwatch for those that want the latest tech. It’s powerful working out faster than the previous model and providing you with advanced sensors. It can now monitor your temperature providing you with ovulation insight retroactively. There’s also a blood oxygen sensor along with the ability to take an ECG any time you need to. On top of that, it has crash and fall detection as well as an emergency SOS facility in case of a problem. A large, always-on Retina display is bright and vibrant so you can always clearly see what you’re doing. It’s also crack-resistant, IP6X-certified dust resistant, and swimproof too. As before, you get plenty of notification support as well.
Editors' Recommendations Apple Watch Ultra 2 just got its first serious discount Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more Apple Watch Series 9 just got its first big discount for Black Friday The 22 best Apple Watch faces you should be using Apple Watch Ultra just got an unprecedented price cut Deals Apple Apple Watch Cheapest Prices Wearables Mobile Most shoppers didn't expect the recently released Apple Watch Series 9 to appear in Amazon's October Prime Day deals, but it's even more surprising that the offer from the Prime Big Deal Days 2023 event is still available. The 45mm, GPS model of the smartwatch remains on sale with $39 off its original price of $529, so you'll only have to pay $490. It's not much of a discount, but it's very rare to get a chance to buy a new Apple device for cheaper than usual. It's one of the most tempting Apple Watch deals online, but you need to purchase it right now because it may get taken down at any moment.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Series 9 The Apple Watch Series 9 is on track to take a spot in our roundup of the best smartwatches because of its gorgeous always-on Retina display, comfortable fit, and extensive choices for color and bands. The wearable device is also an amazing fitness tracker, with a comprehensive suite of sensors that can measure heart rate and blood oxygen levels, take an electrocardiogram, monitor your sleep cycles, and take note of your workouts.
Mobile If you don't have a smartwatch yet or are thinking about upgrading, now is a good time to do so. Amazon's event going on now, which means great deals across the site. And while we're trying to keep tabs on the absolute best October Prime day deals, some things deserve some special attention. In this case, that's the Apple Watch SE 2, down to just $199. That's a $50 discount on one of the best smartwatches, way down from the usual price of $249. Tap the button below to evaluate the offer yourself, or keep reading below to get our staff's take on this item.
Mobile If you're looking to buy an iPhone without spending an arm and a leg, the upcoming Prime Day in October sale tomorrow is going to be the perfect opportunity. While Apple doesn't always have the best phone deals on Amazon, we're starting to see some great offers as we get close to the official start of Prime Day. In fact, you can take advantage of Amazon's Big Deal Days 2023 Sale on iPhones without having to wait for Prime Day itself, as the deals coming out are well-priced and quite competitive.
Of course, you don't necessarily have to hope for Amazon to have a great sale, as we're already seeing some great Prime Day deals across several retailers. In fact, Walmart is having its own October Rollbacks event, which is essentially just a Walmart Prime Day sale to rival Amazon's, which is good because it means better iPhone deals for you! And, even better, we've done a lot of the heavy lifting for you and collected some of our favorite deals below, so be sure to check those out and come back regularly as we find more.
Today's best Prime Day iPhone deals iPhone 15 -- free Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
