Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Guides How to track your sleep with an Apple Watch By Christine Romero-Chan Close Sleep is an important aspect of your overall health and well being. If you doesn’t get enough rest, it can affect other elements of your everyday life. That’s why it’s important to track the amount of sleep that you get every night in some form or another.
How to set up sleep tracking on your Apple Watch How to change your sleep goals How to customize your sleep schedule How to view your sleep tracking details Difficulty Duration What You Need An Apple Watch An iPhone If you have an Apple Watch, then you can use that to track your sleep every night. Apple added native sleep tracking to the Apple Watch in 2020, though it was pretty basic and barebones. In 2022 with watchOS 9, Apple improved the experience with sleep stages.
Here’s how to track your sleep with an Apple Watch, whether it's an older model or a new Apple Watch Series 9 or Apple Watch Ultra 2.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to set up sleep tracking on your Apple Watch Before you can start tracking sleep with your iPhone and Apple Watch, you need to get it set up first. Here’s how to set up sleep tracking for your Apple Watch right from your iPhone.
Step 1: Open the Health app on your iPhone.
Step 2: If you’ve never set up sleep tracking before, you should see a screen that says Set Up Sleep.
 Select the Get Started button.
Step 3: You will now get on-screen prompts to set up your own personalized Sleep Goals , Bedtime and Wakeup Times , Sleep Focus , and Track Sleep with Apple Watch.
 In order for the last option to show up, you need to have paired your Apple Watch with your iPhone first.
Jackie Dove / Digital Trends How to change your sleep goals Once you get Sleep set up on the iPhone and Apple Watch, sometimes you may need to adjust your sleep goal. While eight hours is the norm, you may want more or less, depending on your needs and lifestyle. Here’s how to change your sleep goals.
Step 1: Open the Health app on your iPhone.
Step 2: Select Browse and search for Sleep.
 For easier access, add it as a Favorite to show up in the Summary (scroll all the way down and select Add to Favorites ).
Step 3: Under Sleep , select Full Schedule and Options.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Step 4: Scroll down to find your Sleep Goal.
 Select it and adjust it to your preference.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends How to customize your sleep schedule Typically, you’ll have a pretty routine sleep schedule. But sometimes you’ll have to make adjustments for the weekend or vacation, for example. Here’s how to customize your sleep schedule.
Step 1: Open the Health app on your iPhone.
Step 2: Select Sleep.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Step 3: If you just want to change your Next Wake Up Only , scroll down to Your Schedule and select Edit under the Next in the Your Schedule section.
Step 4: Adjust the dial as needed.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Step 5: If you want to update your Full Schedule , select Full Schedule and Options.
Step 6: Select the Edit button on the Schedule you want to adjust.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Step 7: Make adjustments with the dial and make sure to select the days for it to be active.
Step 8: Select Done to save your changes.
Apple Watch Series 8 Joe Maring / Digital Trends How to view your sleep tracking details After you have everything set up properly, your Apple Watch will gather your sleep data when you wear it to bed, and it will sync with your iPhone automatically. You can always check your sleep tracking details to see how your sleep was.
Step 1: Open the Health app on your iPhone.
Step 2: Select Sleep.
 By default, it will show you the Daily view for the bar graph. You can change it to view the past week, month, or six months of history by selecting the tab for your preferred view.
Step 3: Select Show More Sleep Data if you want to see additional details.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Step 4: In this view, you can see Stages , Amounts , and Comparisons.
Stages shows the time and percentage you spent awake or in REM, Core, or Deep sleep.
Amounts has your sleep duration details like Average Time in Bed and Average Time Asleep.
Comparisons shows heart rate and respiratory rate in relation to the time you spent asleep.
Step 5: For those who have an Apple Watch Series 3 or later with watchOS 8, you can also view Respiratory Rate data. If that isn’t already in your Favorites for quick access, select Browse in the Health app and search for Respiratory Rate.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Getting rest and enough sleep each day is an important step towards a healthy lifestyle and your overall wellbeing. It means you'll have enough energy to get through the day without the need for stimulants like caffeine. Having an iPhone and an Apple Watch make it easier than ever to track your sleep each night, so if you have the devices, make sure to take advantage of the health sensors that make this possible.
Editors' Recommendations iOS 17: How to delete a wallpaper on your iPhone Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen Apple Apple Watch Health & Fitness How-To Guides Tech for Change The Food Fight Wearables Mobile Duolingo is a top-rated language-learning app known for its unique approach to learning. Unlike similar solutions, Duolingo makes learning fun and engaging by turning each step into a game. Whether using the app on your iPhone or Android, you can choose from over 30 languages to learn. Adding another language to your account is easy once you are ready to move on to the next one.
Mobile iOS 17 is the latest version of Apple's mobile operating software, and as usual, it's brought with it plenty of new features and changes to get excited about. While not the biggest update around (it's telling when one of the major changes mentioned is the ability to send your contact information by AirDrop), iOS 17 is still worth paying attention to and getting if you have a compatible iPhone.
Mobile One of the most exciting features to arrive in last year's iOS 16 release was a whole new level of customization for your lock screen. Rather than just letting you set a static image, Apple opened the floodgates to allow you to create screens that cycled through collections of your photos of friends, pets, and landscapes, see live weather updates and astronomical conditions, and much more.
The feature remains mostly the same in iOS 17, although Apple made a nice tweak in iOS 17.1 so you can now select any of your albums to show on the Photo Shuffle lock screen rather than being limited to the fixed smart collections of people, pets, nature, and cities. You can also still set up multiple lock screens to cycle through, and that also now means multiple Photo Shuffle screens to choose pictures from different albums. Since these can be set to automatically come up in different Focus modes, you can have your iPhone automatically switch between an album of professional pictures at work and family pics at home.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
