Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Garmin watches of 2022 By Jackie Dove Close If you're in the market for a new smartwatch, the first one that likely comes to mind is the Apple Watch , widely considered the best smartwatch available.
 So why look further? For reasons like functionality and price, many people seek alternatives to Apple's popular wearable. One worthy contender is Garmin's line of sport-oriented smartwatches, which are popular with a variety of athletes — runners, cyclists, triathlon competitors, and other outdoor sports aficionados — for their accuracy, precision, and durability.
Navigation is a strong suit for Garmin watches, and the company has a good reputation for longevity. Its watches stand up to wear and tear for years, and the company continues to upgrade them long after their release dates. Digital Trends has kept a close eye on a number of Garmin watches and gathered them together in this list to give you a better idea of which ones might serve your needs.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Garmin Enduro Best Garmin watch for battery life Mind-blowing battery life Outdoors-focused sports tracking Comfortable nylon strap Roomy, readable display No topographical maps Expensive cost Why you should buy this: It's a durable outdoor watch that keeps on going.
Who it’s for: This watch caters to sports enthusiasts who want to track their performance and progress.
Why we picked the Garmin Enduro: Battery life is the hallmark of the Garmin Enduro , Garmin's niche sports watch targeted at endurance runners, bikers, and hikers. The hybrid watch provides a 70-hour runtime on a single charge. With normal usage, the Enduro lasts more than a month between charges. Battery life is derived from an integrated solar cell embedded underneath the glass display to provide supplemental power. The Enduro's rugged stainless steel bezel and metal-polymer casing defy the elements. While it's chunky for smaller wrists, it is relatively lightweight, with the steel version weighing 71 grams. It wraps your wrist in a comfy nylon strap. The Enduro has a large, easy-to-read 1.4-inch color display, but the hues are entirely utilitarian for information or stats. The widget-based interface lets you view the weather, sunrise/sunset times, and calendar items. The Enduro may be overkill for the gym or yoga, but hardcore outdoor fanatics will appreciate its support for climbing mountains and long-distance running and hiking. Despite its fitness and outdoor features, you cannot respond to calls or notifications without an Android phone.
Adam Doud/Digital Trends Garmin Venu 2 Plus Best premium Garmin watch Rock-solid connectivity Phone calls and assistant Battery life Strong GPS A ton of data High price Unintuitive UI Missing some services Why you should buy this: This watch will keep you on schedule and looking stylish.
Who it’s for: Business or pleasure, take your pick. This watch looks good and functions superlatively anywhere.
Why we picked the Garmin Venu 2 Plus: Garmin's Venu 2 Plus is a really nice wearable that provides a high level of health data and functionality in an admittedly pricy $450 package. It's lovely to look at, with a bright, crisp, easy-to-read 1.3-inch AMOLED screen. The watch has a Gorilla Glass 3 face that's compatible with swimming up to 5 ATMs or about 50 meters. While somewhat thick, it's comfortable to wear. The Venu 2 Plus is the first Venu smartwatch to make and receive phone calls around the house and also control your phone’s Google assistant. Its solid connectivity over relatively long distances is convenient. Music service support includes Spotify and Deezer, though not YouTube Music.
Exercise data automatically includes a map of your route, speed, average heart rate, ascents, pace, and more. Battery life is quite robust at nine days of battery life, with a full AMOLED display and heart tracking that measures several times per second. The battery will deplete faster if you add in GPS and music streaming, but for most everyday use, this watch is a trooper.
More Best Black Friday smartwatch deals: Apple, Samsung, Garmin, and more Apple Watch Ultra 2 just got its first serious discount The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Garmin Vivomove Sport Best value Garmin sport watch Looks like a fashion watch Screen entirely hidden when not in use Gesture controls are reliable Comprehensive health and activity tracking OLED screen is low resolution Battery life is only average Why you should buy this: If you want a traditional look at the office, but look forward to pickup basketball after work, this is the watch for you.
Who it’s for: Anyone who seeks a traditional-looking watch face and hands, but craves smartwatch functionality at a reasonable price.
Why we picked the Garmin Vivomove Sport: Garmin’s 2022 Vivomove Sport is a subtle, go-anywhere hybrid smartwatch with physical hands that move around the dial and a screen that stays hidden until summoned. The dial is simple, with six hour markers and chronograph markings on the bezel. The case is made from fiber-reinforced polymer, also used for Garmin's Fenix models, with a curved glass covering over the edge. The screen comes alive when you raise your wrist or double tap on the glass, to show the time, battery status, and date. The battery lasts for five days. The OLED screen is bright, but low resolution at 72 x 154 pixels. Connection and syncing are flawless, despite lacking features like Google Assistant or Siri integration.
The Vivomove Sport features menstrual cycle tracking and pregnancy tracking, a liquid intake log, phone-based GPS tracking, location sharing, and mindful relaxation features. The Body Battery feature estimates your energy level to determine if it’s a good time to work out. The Garmin Vivomove Sport is an excellent everyday hybrid smartwatch, with comprehensive health and activity tracking features. The accurate gesture controls and bright OLED screen make it easy to use, plus it works with Android and iOS.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Garmin Quatix 6 Best Garmin watch for water sports Multiple fitness sensors Battery life Build quality Music storage Day to day usability Expensive Only one size No touchscreen Why you should buy this: If you're out on the water sailing or boating, you'll always know where you are and how to get where you want to go.
Who it’s for: Anyone into maritime activities or the active lifestyle will appreciate the functionality of this watch.
Why we picked the Garmin Quatix 6: The Garmin Quatix 6 signature Captain Blue silicone band and brushed stainless steel bezel with touches of red offer some variety to the classic all-black options. The Quatix 6 tracks steps, calories burned, sleep, and stairs climbed. It connects with either an iPhone or Android device for notifications. It also features GPS, a heart rate monitor, barometric altimeter, compass, thermometer, accelerometer, Pulse Ox , and gyroscope. What makes the Quatix 6 special isn’t that it has all of those sensors, though, but the fact it's customized for seafarers. You'll always know where you are with coastal charts and inland maps. Its preloaded apps specialize in boating and fishing, as well as workouts. You can sail for up to two weeks on a single charge in smartwatch mode. The Quatix 6 also comes in a titanium version , which features a sapphire crystal lens, titanium bezel and band, and a slightly lower weight.
Garmin Vívomove HR Sport Best value Garmin watch Strong battery life Great activity tracking Smart features No built-in music service Why you should buy this: It's a budget watch in price only.
Who it’s for: Anyone looking for a capable sports watch with extensive features that doesn't cost a fortune.
Why we picked the Garmin Vivomove HR Sport: The Vívomove HR Sport is a stylish hybrid touchscreen smartwatch with precision analog hands that show the time and dynamically move when you swipe through your messages, heart rate, and other screens. Its style fits into the office or any sports you're into. Use it to count your steps or track your calories and stress level. It estimates heart rate with Garmin's Elevate heart rate technology and features monitoring tools like a relaxation timer, advanced sleep monitoring with REM sleep, steps, calories, distance, heart rate, intensity minutes, and VO2 levels. The battery lasts up to five days in smart mode and up to two more weeks in watch mode with only hands indicating the time. You can connect with smart features like auto uploads, smart notifications, and music controls. The Vívomove HR Sport also works on Android and iOS and has 50-meter water resistance.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Garmin Forerunner 645 Music Best Garmin watch for soundtracks Offline music playback Extensive fitness tracking capabilities Doesn’t require a tethered smartphone for its full features 5- to 7-day battery life Expensive Buckle showed wear and tear after two weeks Why you should buy this: This standalone watch caters to folks who move from home to office to store to gym, providing an array of everyday capabilities.
Who it’s for: Music lovers who want to hear their tunes anywhere, anytime.
Why we picked the Garmin Forerunner 645 Music: If you're running with tunes in your head, you will appreciate the Garmin Forerunner 645 Music , which lets you download songs to your watch with playlists from your Spotify, Amazon Music, or Deezer subscription. Among this watch's major selling points is syncing music from select streaming services for offline listening during your routine. It also facilitates the Garmin Pay contactless payment feature, so you can use your watch for purchases when paired with supported cards from participating banks. It supports many advanced running dynamics, including speed and distance, stride length, cadence, vertical ratio, ground contact time, and balance. For swimming, it tracks laps, distance, stroke count, and lap pace. Garmin rates the Forerunner 645 with its silicone strap as waterproof to 50 meters. The battery lasts up to seven days in smartwatch mode, but only five hours in GPS mode with music.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Garmin Fenix 6S Pro Best small Garmin watch Slimmed-down design Altitude-savvy pacing data Extended battery life Easy-to-use interface On the heavy side Why you should buy this: It may be small in size, but it's huge when it comes to fitness features.
Who it’s for: Anyone looking for an unobtrusive, reasonably priced fitness watch.
Why we picked the Garmin Fenix 6S Pro: The Fenix 6S Pro is the smallest watch in Garmin’s Fenix lineup, measuring 42mm for the case and weighing 61 grams. It is slimmer and lighter than previous Fenix watches, but it is still a rugged watch. When you first wear the Fenix 6S, you can feel the weight of the watch on your wrist, but it’s not so heavy that it’s burdensome; in fact, it’s quite comfortable. The Fenix 6S Pro is an adventure watch, so it also attends to the wellness of the outdoorsy and physically active. You get all the major metrics like sleep stage tracking, stress monitoring, and pulse ox, as well as daily respiration tracking and sweat loss monitoring during workouts. The 6S Pro has a compact design, refined interface, and useful features that make it attractive to folks looking for a fitness watch with a strong outdoor focus.
Kelly Hodgkins / Digital Trends Garmin Instinct Best rugged Garmin watch Affordable Plenty of outdoors features Rugged design Comfortable Low-resolution display No third-party apps Why you should buy this: This watch stands up to extreme terrain, harsh climate, and uncertain circumstances at a reasonable price.
Who it’s for: Anyone venturing out into a threatening environment can count on a military standard casing that won't break down.
Why we picked the Garmin Instinct GPS Watch: The Garmin Instinct is for the hardcore of whatever activity you're into. This rugged GPS watch — which aligns with U.S. Military standard 810G for thermal, shock, and water resistance up to 100 meters — is built for tough environments. It features a three-axis compass, a barometric altimeter, and multiple global navigation satellite systems like GPS, GLONASS, and Galileo to track your challenging path. You can also use this watch to monitor estimated heart rate, activity, and stress, and train with preloaded activity profiles. When paired with a compatible smartphone, you can connect with notifications and automatic data uploads to the Garmin Connect fitness community. A TracBack feature helps you navigate your route so you don't get lost. The Instinct's battery lasts up to 14 days in smartwatch mode and up to 40 hours in UltraTrac battery saver mode.
Kelly Hodgkins/Digital Trends Garmin Forerunner 945 Best Garmin watch for runners Packs a ton of features into a compact watch Onboard maps ensure you won’t get lost Pulse Oximeter aids in acclimation 24/7 heart rate monitoring with stress mentoring Music including Spotify and Deezer Strap is difficult to remove Limited ability to respond to notifications Why you should buy this: Runners and other athletes on the go will appreciate the watch's GPS orientation.
Who it’s for: Hardcore athletes in any sport or training mode.
Why we picked the Garmin Forerunner 945 GPS Watch: The Garmin Forerunner 945 features an always-on, 1.2-inch, 240 x 240-pixel display, meaning you’ll always be able to see your data during your training sessions. This watch tracks a variety of training metrics, including Vo2 Max and training status, altitude and heat acclimatization, training load focus, recovery time, and aerobic and anaerobic training thresholds. The Forerunner 945 is a true multi-sport watch, preloaded with 30 indoor and outdoor sports. Options range from running to skiing and just about everything in between. To provide some inspiring music while you train, the Forerunner 945 has you covered. It’s compatible with Spotify, Amazon Music, and Deezer, meaning all your favorite tracks and playlists can come along for the ride, which means you can leave your bulky smartphone behind. It also features Garmin Pay, just in case you need some mid-workout fuel to keep you going. It also includes full-color mapping, so if you find yourself off-route, you can easily find your way home. The battery lasts up to two weeks in smartwatch mode and up to 60 hours in UltraTrac mode.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Garmin Forerunner 45S Best Garmin watch for newcomers Color display Accurate GPS tracking New sports modes and metrics 5-button navigation Two sizes for different wrists No interchangeable bands Display may be prone to scratching No advanced running metrics Why you should buy this: This is a simple watch to use, yet it covers way more than the basics for extensive multi-sport functionality.
Who it’s for: People who are new to smartwatches will do well starting off with the Garmin Forerunner 45S.
Why we picked the Garmin Forerunner 45S: Forerunner 45S is an entry-level sports watch. Everything is geared towards casual runners who want to improve their fitness but don’t want to crunch numbers. The watch measures all the metrics you need in a running watch including distance, pace, speed, cadence, calories burned, and heart rate. New to the model is a V02 max calculation that approximates your cardiovascular fitness level, like those on Garmin’s other Forerunner watches. These metrics are easy to understand and easy to track. The Forerunner 45S tracks your health and wellness, a useful complement to the running metrics. The heart rate sensor tracks your heart rate 24/7 allowing you to monitor your resting heart rate and calculate your stress level throughout the day. The Forerunner 45S also tracks your sleep and breaks down your sleep into stages: Deep, light, REM, and awake.
Garmin Vívoactive 4 Best Garmin watch for athletic instruction Great exercise tracking Music streaming from watch Stats galore Music integration a bit user unfriendly No condition monitoring Why you should buy this: This watch offers unique fitness assistance in helping you get and stay in shape.
Who it’s for: Folks looking to deep track their fitness routines.
Why we picked the Garmin Vivoactive 4: The Garmin Vivoactive 4 not only monitors several critical biometrics — like your energy levels, Pulse Ox, respiration, menstrual cycle, stress, sleep, heart rate, and hydration — but it also functions as a virtual coach. The smartwatch uses compelling animations to coach users on how to safely do different movements by sharing the proper form for each exercise. The Vivoactive provides users with a host of workouts ranging from strength training to yoga poses. Overall, there are 20 sports apps to choose from, which include both indoor and outdoor activities. The Vivoactive 4 also supports apps like Spotify, Amazon Music, and Deezer, so you’ll be able to work out with your favorite playlists. We just recommend that you keep your wireless earbuds nearby, so you can listen without your smartphone.
If you decide you want to bring your phone along, then rest assured with Vivoactive 4’s added safety features. You can use incident detection and real-time tracking to stay on top of where your phone is. Users also have access to thousands of free watch faces, apps, and widgets through the Connect IQ store. The smartwatch has a battery life of up to eight days in smartwatch mode and up to six hours in GPS and music mode. The Vívoactive 4 is available in two sizes — 40mm and 45mm.
Frequently Asked Questions Some do. Devices like Garmin Vivoactive 4 have a speaker and microphone function so you can answer calls without using your smartphone. For this to happen, make sure you have the right settings turned on. Open the Garmin Connect app, select Devices, tap the name of your smartwatch, and turn on notifications. You get three options: All notifications, Calls Only, and Calls and Texts. If you only want to answer calls on the go, choose #2, but if you'd like to see both calls and texts, choose #3. This way you can use your Garmin smartwatch for calling.
It's tempting to buy the best-looking watch from a selection, but this isn't always the most suitable choice. If you truly want to make the most out of your smartwatch, we recommend prioritizing specs. Think: Which features do you need for your daily fitness lifestyle? For instance, if you spend a lot of time outdoors, rugged smartwatches like the Garmin Instinct could be a good option for you. Similarly, if you're quite new to the world of smartwatches and just want an affordable option to test the waters, go for models like the Garmin Forerunner 45s which are easy on the wallet but also offer great functions for a beginner.
As more and more companies enter the field of smartwatches and fitness trackers, users are treated to new models with super-advanced features. This sounds great in theory, but not all of us actually use those high-end features. For example, users who don't frequently participate in sports don't need so many levels of data analysis about their performance. In fact, having too much data can make it difficult to understand what's happening, especially if you're a beginner. That's why we recommend making a list of the daily activities you do and checking them against your desired features to understand if you truly need a smartwatch with the most advanced features.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more The best Garmin Watch Black Friday deals you can shop now Apple Watch Series 9 just got its first big discount for Black Friday Don’t need the latest model? Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 is $99 today Best Products Wearables Mobile The best smartwatches are a great option for fitness enthusiasts, as are the best fitness trackers. Many of them are quite expensive, however, which makes something like the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 enticing if you aren’t interested in all of the latest bells and whistles. Currently the Galaxy Watch 4 is discounted to just $99 for an early Black Friday discount at Walmart, which is a savings of $50 from its regular price of $149. Walmart is including free shipping with a purchase as well.
Why you should buy the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 A good smartwatch typically offers all sorts of fitness tracking capabilities in addition to some features you often find on your smart phone, such as messaging and music controls. The Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 can do a lot of what you’d expect from the newest smartwatches, despite now being a couple of generations old. There are more recent Samsung releases such as the Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 and the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 that aren’t necessarily as enticing, particularly if you’re shopping on a budget. The Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 still holds up in terms of style, functionality, and features, and it still makes a great option to help you keep up with your health goals.
Mobile You don't need to spend several hundred dollars if you want to get a dependable tablet, especially with tablet deals like this one from Best Buy -- the Lenovo Tab M9 for just $100, following a $40 discount on its original price of $140. As part of the retailer's early Black Friday deals, we expect the offer to draw a lot of attention, but once it's gone, we're not sure if it will return for the actual shopping holiday. If you want to make sure that you get this Android tablet for much cheaper than usual, you shouldn't hesitate to buy it right now.
Why you should by the Lenovo Tab M9 tablet If you manage your expectations with the Lenovo Tab M9, you'll be getting a device that will be able to handle your day-to-day functions. It's not going to be as fast as the high-end models among the best tablets, but with the octa-core MediaTek Helio G80 processor and 3GB of RAM, it will provide decent performance for work and school tasks such as doing online research, managing spreadsheets, and communicating with your colleagues. It's also perfect for recreational activities such as watching streaming shows and playing mobile games, as the tablet features a 9-inch touchscreen with 1340 x 800 resolution.
Mobile Whether for fitness or fashion, a smartwatch makes a great tech accessory. And right now a new smartwatch makes a great way to save, with a lot of smartwatch deals going on across several retailers. You’ll find several of the best smartwatches and best fitness trackers with their prices discounted right now, and among the current smartwatch deals are brands like Garmin, Apple, Samsung, and Google. With so many ways to save on a smartwatch out there, we’ve tracked down the best smartwatch deals and compiled them all in one place. So whether you’re in the market for an Apple Watch or a Pixel Watch, a Galaxy Watch or a Garmin, read up on the best smartwatch deals below.
Apple Watch SE — $109, was $309 Even with the release of the second generation Apple Watch SE, the first generation Apple Watch SE is a smartwatch worthy of purchasing. It still holds its own in terms of features, with all of the tracking capabilities the Apple Watch lineup has become known for, including the ability to track tai chi and pilates workouts, in addition to things like running, yoga, swimming and dance. It allows you to hike smarter with a built-in compass and real-time elevation readings, and its swimproof design holds up in the pool and on rainy jogs. The Apple Watch SE looks great out on the town as well, and has excellent battery life.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
