Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Fitbit Sense 2 review: A smart way to focus on fitness By Andy Zahn Close $300.00 Highly responsive interface Excellent display Rugged and highly water resistant Advanced fitness and health tracking Comfortable to wear A bit pricey Audio quality for calls isn’t great When I think of fitness trackers, I immediately think of Fitbit. This is a brand that has become synonymous with step counting and general fitness statistics gathering, but Fitbit makes devices that are more than mere data harvesters. The Fitbit Sense 2 is a full-blown smartwatch, offering many of the features you look for in a wrist-mounted smart device. Given Fitbit’s established prowess at building great fitness tracking devices, it’s safe to assume that the Sense 2 will perform well in that regard, but can it also be a great smartwatch at the same time? Fitbit Sense 2 design and comfort Fitbit Sense 2 setup process Fitbit Sense 2 battery life Fitbit Sense 2 display Fitbit Sense 2 performance and features Fitbit Sense 2 app and premium subscription Fitbit Sense 2 price and availability Both a feature-rich fitness tracker and a compelling smartwatch Fitbit Sense 2 design and comfort The Sense 2 has a distinctly high-end look and feel. It’s a visibly classy smartwatch, particularly with the optional Brother Velles leather band. I tested the soft gold aluminum-colored Sense 2, but it’s also available in platinum aluminum and graphite aluminum colors, alongside a wide array of optional band colors and materials.
Andy Zahn / Digital Trends I’m very sensitive to watches, and coming from the ultra-light and exceptionally comfortable Fitbit Inspire 3, I wasn’t looking forward to using a larger device on my wrist. However, I was pleasantly surprised to find that the Sense 2 is quite comfortable to wear. Both the infinity bands I tested and the Brother Velles leather band were great, and while I found the leather band to be slightly more comfortable, the infinity band that ships with the Sense 2 feels good, too, and I love the innovative clasp system.
The process of attaching and detaching watch bands is the best of any Fitbit system I’ve used. The locking mechanism is easy to detach, but also very secure. If you like to swap out bands for different scenarios and styles, the Sense 2 is ideal.
Fitbit Sense 2 setup process While initial setup was a breeze, getting all the features of the Sense 2 up and running took a bit of work. You have to go through and grant a lot of permissions before the watch will be fully functional. While it was kind of a headache to diagnose why certain things weren’t working and dig through the app to activate them properly, I do appreciate that this process enables a greater degree of user knowledge of data collection by the Sense 2.
Fitbit Sense 2 battery life The Fitbit Sense 2 is rated to last over six days on a single charge, and based on my time wearing the device, I believe this figure to be accurate. It’s roughly what you’d expect from the original Fitbit Sense, though keep in mind that it will vary based on how you use the device. It’s not quite up there with the incredible battery life of the Inspire 3, but it’s more than acceptable, considering how much more powerful the Sense 2 is than the Inspire 3. Just 12 minutes of fast charging will get you an entire 24 hours’ worth of juice.
Fitbit Sense 2 display Andy Zahn / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Sense 2 features a really gorgeous display, with deep blacks and vibrant colors, and is bright enough to use in harsh daylight conditions. It’s easy to read at a glance, and the numerous available watch faces look great.
Fitbit Sense 2 performance and features Andy Zahn / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Touchscreen responsiveness in the Sense 2 is extremely good, without any noticeable lag or touch recognition issues. Navigating menus is slick and intuitive, as is the operation of the newly redesigned physical button. Motion detection to wake up the display also works reliably.
Call audio is functional, but not great compared to the speakers and microphone on my Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra , or my Samsung Galaxy Buds 2.
 I found that I had to hold the watch close to my face to maintain reasonable microphone quality, and the output from the built-in speaker is rather crackly. It’s there if you need it though, and it’s a nice feature to have.
In terms of durability and water resistance, the Sense 2 is remarkably tough. It’s water resistant down to 164 feet underwater and is rated to operate between -14 and 113 degrees Fahrenheit. I wore the Sense 2 on a particularly rugged off-trail route — finding adventure, exploring, and documenting a remote ancient forest. This involved descending and ascending cliffs, crawling through thickets of devil’s club, and a dunk in a waterfall. The watch came through without a scratch.
Andy Zahn / Digital Trends The many fitness sensors of the Sense 2 performed admirably. My impression is that this watch is even more accurate than the Inspire 3, which I praised for the accuracy of its sensors. This device harvests an impressive amount of data to help monitor your health with.
Like other Fitbit devices, the Sense 2 tracks your steps and heart rate, but its sensor array goes much farther than that. The Sense 2 includes a unique Body Response sensor designed to detect and manage stress. This sensor tracks ElectroDermal activity, heart rate, heart rate variability, and skin temperature. By using this data, the Sense 2 is meant to help you be more aware of what causes you stress and thereby reduce it over time.
This device harvests an impressive amount of data with which to help monitor your health.
Andy Zahn / Digital Trends The Sense 2 can also help detect atrial fibrillation using an electrocardiogram app, and is even capable of measuring blood oxygen levels. While none of this is intended for serious medical use, the wide range of sensors, combined with powerful analytic software, enables the Sense 2 to be a valuable companion for keeping track of both your fitness and overall health. The more you engage with it, such as logging your food and water consumption and participation in various activities, the more effective it is.
A number of features weren’t available at the time of testing, such as Google Maps and Google Pay integration. Fitbit Pay and Amazon Alexa are already available, as is the ability to see and respond to notifications from your phone. It needs to be noted that the ability to respond to notifications and texts is only available on Android.
Fitbit Sense 2 app and premium subscription The Fitbit app is an essential companion to the Sense 2, and it’s great both for adjusting settings and permissions, as well as monitoring the many stats harvested from the watch. A Fitbit Premium subscription ($10 per month, or $80 per year) gets you access to a host of extra features, including a daily readiness score, sleep profile, and wellness report, among many other advantages. The Sense 2 includes a six-month Fitbit Premium subscription.
Fitbit Sense 2 price and availability Andy Zahn / Digital Trends Available now at $300, the Sense 2 isn’t cheap, but its design and extensive feature set justify that cost. If you’re looking for a less expensive fitness tracker, the Fitbit Inspire 3 is a fantastic option at a third of the price of the Sense 2, albeit at the cost of many of the bells and whistles found in the Sense 2.
Both a feature-rich fitness tracker and a compelling smartwatch The Fitbit Sense 2 is packed to bursting with useful features, all wrapped up in a beautiful and comfortable package. The ability to track a wide variety of metrics gathered from its myriad sensors, all processed into understandable information by its advanced software is highly compelling. If you’re looking for the best fitness and health-focused smartwatch, this is the one to buy.
Editors' Recommendations The future of Fitbit doesn’t look good The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid The best fitness trackers in 2023: 12 best ones you can buy Best Prime Day Fitbit Deals for October 2022 Fitbit Versa 4 vs. Fitbit Sense 2: Which new Fitbit wins? Fitbit Fitness Tracker Reviews Health & Fitness Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Fitbit's lineup of smartwatches and fitness trackers is getting larger just in time for the holiday season, with the company announcing the Fitbit Versa 4, Fitbit Sense 2, and Fitbit Inspire 3. The Versa and Sense continue Fitbit's smartwatch focus, while the Inspire remains one of the go-to choices for anyone who wants to eschew too many smart features for a sleeker design and smaller price. And they're likely to be among the best Fitbit wearables you can buy this year.
Right off the bat, none of these wearables are significant new additions to Fitbit's portfolio. They're all very similar to their predecessors, but with a few minor tweaks here and there to make them better than before. And, no, none of the new smartwatches are running Wear OS. Fitbit has made some intriguing hardware and software upgrades across the board, but this latest launch is clearly focused on evolution rather than revolution.
Fitbit Versa 4 Mobile Fitbit has a busy slate of fitness wearables lined up for debut, but they have all been unceremoniously leaked, giving us a clear look at their design and color options. Tipster @OnLeaks (via 91Mobiles) has shared official-looking product renders of the Fitbit Versa 4 and the Sense 2 smartwatches. Tagging along the premium smartwatches is the Fitbit Inspire 3 fitness band.
The report doesn’t discuss a tentative launch date, but it likely isn’t too far off. The current-gen Fitbit wearables in the Versa, Sense, and Inspire lineup broke cover in August last year. If Fitbit aims to stick with a yearly refresh cycle — and given the opportune time of the latest leaks — the Sense 2, Versa 4, and Inspire 4 should be hitting the shelves in the coming weeks.
Mobile Fitbit has been helping people track their sleep information for over ten years. Now, the company's latest Fitbit Premium feature, Sleep Profile, will provide personalized data to improve sleep quality across the board. Previously, Fitbits were able to track nightly patterns such as sleep duration, restfulness, and REM sleep. While that information can be helpful for understanding a person's sleeping habits, Sleep Profile will up the ante by tracking even more data points and, perhaps more importantly, will help users understand how to interpret the data.
In addition to sleep duration, restfulness, and REM sleep, your Fitbit can now track sleep schedule variability, your time before sound sleep, and disrupted sleep. Users will have access to the individual data points after each night but won't receive any interpretation of the information until the end of each month. Sleep Profile will then analyze the data, compare it to other users, and give a full report on your sleep patterns.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
