Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Fitbit deals: Nearly every fitness tracker model is on sale By Noah McGraw Close Ready to start tracking your health? Whether you’re just starting a fitness journey or you’re years into it, tracking specific data about your heart rate and burned calories is a great way to improve your fitness routine. Fitbit is the leading manufacturer of smartwatches designed specifically for monitoring your health. Most models are relatively cheap, but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t shop for some smartwatch deals.
 We’ve collected the best Fitbit deals we could find from around the internet. We found deals on the the Inspire, Ace, Charge, Versa and Sense models. Check them out below.
Fitbit Inspire 2 — $59, was $83 Fitbit Ace 3 — $60, was $80 Fitbit Charge 5 — $120, was $150 Fitbit Versa 2 — $120, was $150 Fitbit Sense 2 — $230, was $300 Fitbit Inspire 2 — $59, was $83 Fitbit If you just want a simple health tracker, the Inspire 2 is your best bet. It’s super cheap because it has relatively few special features. But the features it does have work great. It’s main use is a 24/7 health tracker. It has a battery life of 10 days, so you can wear it all the time, even while you sleep, and not worry about running out of battery. It tracks your heart rate constantly, so you can get a solid idea of what your resting heart rate is. When it’s time to be active, it switches to Active Zone Minutes, so you can see how many minutes per day, week and month you are actively exercising. You can get fancy exercise and meal plans if you subscribe to Fitbit Premium. You can test out the subscription for one full year for free.
Fitbit Ace 3 — $60, was $80 Fitbit Want to keep your kids active? One way to get them excited about playing outside and working up a sweat is by “gamifying” exercise. If they can watch the number go up on their distance walked, calories burned and steps taken, it might be easier to drag them away from their video games. In comes the Ace 3 , a smartwatch designed specifically to track kids’ health. This discount only applies to the Minions version, which comes with a little digital minion on the face that changes as kids get more active. The Ace 3 is water resistant and the silicone band keeps them from bumping it around.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Fitbit Charge 5 — $120, was $150 Fitbit The Fitbit Charge 5 is a step up from the Ace and Inspire. It tracks a lot more health metrics, and it has a GPS. It tracks your heart rate, sending you notifications if your heart rate is too high or too low. It has an electrodermal response tracker, or EDA, which can help you track and manage your stress levels throughout the day. It can even detect atrial fibrillation if you pair the watch with an ECG app. The Charge 5 collates all of these difference health metrics into a Daily Readiness Score, which will let you know if it’s time to do some heavy exercise or if your body needs a break.
Fitbit Versa 2 — $120, was $150 Fitbit The Fitbit Versa 2 is a full smartwatch. It can do a lot more than just track your health. While that is probably the reason you’re interested in a Fitbit over, say, Apple Watch deals , sometimes you need your smartwatch to be a little, well, smarter. This version of the smart watch has the usual heart rate monitor, although you’ll need to get Fitbit Premium if you want to unlock all the health tracking options. The Versa 2 also has Alexa built in, so you can start workouts by just talking to her. It also has the ability to stream music and pay at cash registers with a tap.
Fitbit Sense 2 — $230, was $300 Andy Zahn / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Fitbit Sense 2 is our favorite Fitbit model. It has a higher quality build than the other Fitbit models, with a nicer, more responsive display. Its rugged build makes it ideal for outdoor adventurers who may have been considering a smartwatch like the Apple Watch Ultra or Garmin Watch deals.
 It has the usual heart tracker and EDA, which can help you detect extreme or irregular heart beats and track your stress levels, respectively. You can use it to call someone, change the music, or pay your tab all from your wrist. It has a GPS, so you can use it to track your running or hiking routes. Overall it’s the most comprehensive smartwatch and health tracker on this list.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday smartwatch deals: Apple, Samsung, Garmin, and more Best smartwatch deals: Samsung, Google, Apple, and Garmin Best cell phone plan deals: T-Mobile, AT&T, Verizon, Mint Mobile and more Fitbit Charge 5, Sense 2 fitness trackers just had their prices slashed The fitness trackers you need for summer, according to Best Buy Deals Cheapest Prices Fitbit Wearables Deals Fitbit is one of the most popular names in the smartwatch market, primarily because of its fitness-focused products. If you'd like to try owning one of the brand's wearable devices, or if you want to purchase more of them, the good news is that there are Fitbit deals that are available right now. You'll be able to enjoy significant savings if you take advantage of any of these offers, but you'll want to act fast because there's no telling when these prices will return to normal.
Fitbit Inspire 3 -- $80, was $100 For casual users who want a simple fitness tracker on their wrist, the Fitbit Inspire 3 is an excellent choice, according to our guide on the best Fitbit. It's an affordable and hassle-free wearable device that's capable of monitoring your resting heart rate, blood oxygen, skin temperature, and more. The fitness tracker also has a battery life of up to 10 days, and the ability to inform you when it detects heart rate anomalies. Every purchase of the Fitbit Inspire 3 also comes with a six-month Fitbit Premium membership, which unlocks features such as Daily Readiness Score that will tell you what level of workouts your body can handle, Sleep Profile that provides a detailed analysis of your sleeping habits, and the full roster of Mindfulness Sessions that help you deal with stress.
Deals If you’re looking to uphold some New Year’s fitness resolutions, landing one of the best smartwatch deals is a good way to keep yourself motivated. Today the Fitbit Versa 4 is seeing a $50 discount at Best Buy, which brings the fitness smartwatch down to just $180 from its regular price of $230. Included with your purchase is free shipping, as well as a free three-month trial of Google One, which is a nice cloud storage option to have access to. In-store pickup is also available at Best Buy locations where the Fitbit Versa 4 is in stock.
Why you should get the Fitbit Versa 4 Fitness enthusiasts will love the Fitbit Versa 4 for its capabilities in the gym. The Versa 4 offers a range of fitness tracking features, with things like 24/7 heart tracking, stress level tracking, and workout tracking at the top of its feature list. With its ability to track your workout, the Versa 4 is able to hold you accountable. It does so using a feature called Active Zone Minutes, which credits you for time spent in fat burn, cardio, and peak heart rate zones. This lets you know if you’re ready for another workout, or if your focus should be on recovery from your previous workout. Battery life is competitive with the best fitness trackers, with the Versa 4 able to reach more than six days of battery life on a single charge.
Deals It's Cyber Week! That means we're cataloging all the remaining Cyber Monday deals on Fitbits, so if you're in the market for a new fitness tracker, keep reading. All weekend we've been seeing Cyber Monday smartwatch deals drip in, and these deals have sold out fast, so if you spot something below that you like the look of, make sure to grab it. This is your one and only chance to snap up deals, and since it's the last shopping event of the year, you'll need to order today to make sure your items arrive in time for the holidays. Below we've rounded up our favorite Cyber Monday Fitbit deals, with something on offer to suit all budgets. Get these deals before they sell out! Fitbit Inspire 2 -- $50, was $80 Want a fitness tracker but on a tight budget? The Fitbit Inspire 2 is the ideal choice. The original Fitbit Inspire made our list of best Fitbits, and the Inspire 2 improves on a good thing. With 10-day battery life and a daily readiness score, you won't be tied to your charger, and you'll always know whether it's time to work out or for a day for rest. The Inspire 2 is an excellent choice for sleep tracking too, as you can see how much light, deep, and REM sleep you're getting, plus improve your sleep with helpful tips. Protect your heart health with 24/7 heart rate and irregular heart rhythm notifications, earn Active Zone Minutes when you reach your target heart rate zones, and enjoy a one-year free trial of Fitbit Premium, plus three free months of Google One 100GB with your new tracker (new subscribers only). This is one of the best Fitbit Cyber Monday deals around, no contest.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
