Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best iPhone 14 cases: 20 best ones you can buy in 2023 By Paula Beaton and Christine Romero-Chan Close The iPhone 14 lineup has been out for a while now, but that doesn't make it any less exciting when you get your hands on a shiny new device. The iPhone 14 is a great option, as it provides you with a 6.1-inch Super Retina XDR display that is gorgeous to look at and up to 512GB storage, with all of that powered by the fast A15 Bionic chip with iOS 16.
 But since the iPhone 14 starts at $799, that's still a pretty penny, so you'll want to protect your investment.
The best way to protect your iPhone 14 is with a great case. There are plenty of options out there, with something for everyone, but some cases are better than others. Here are some of our favorite iPhone 14 cases that you can grab right now! More More More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Smartish Wallet Slayer Case Best wallet case for iPhone 14 Handy card slot holds three cards plus cash Card compartment folds out as kickstand Air pocket corners for drop protection Choice of four designs Not compatible with MagSafe and wireless chargers Want to leave your wallet at home, but don't want a traditional folding leather wallet case? The Wallet Slayer from Smartish has you covered. This sleek case comes in solid black (Black Tie) or a choice of three colorful designs. On the rear there's a handy card slot that stores up to three cards and cash — as a bonus, it folds out into a kickstand for hands-free viewing and video calls. Protective air pocket corners act like mini airbags for your phone, cushioning it from drops and bumps, and grippy sides keep your phone firmly in hand. True, it's not compatible with MagSafe or wireless chargers, but if that doesn't bother you, this case is an excellent choice.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Incipio Duo Case Best dual-layer case for iPhone 14 Up to 12 feet of drop protection Soft-touch, smudge-resistant finish Antimicrobial treatment Minimalist design might not be for everyone Incipio's Duo Case is a must if you want serious drop protection for your iPhone 14. This two-piece case gives you maximum protection in a minimalist style. The soft-touch finish feels great in your hand while providing smudge resistance, and the slim design also means this case is compatible with wireless and MagSafe charging. Innovative Impact Struts technology provides up to 12 feet of drop protection, the case is scratch- and discoloration-resistant, and an antimicrobial treatment prevents 99.9% of surface bacteria. The icing on the cake is Incipio's lifetime warranty. You can pick this case up in clear or a choice of colors including black, Midnight Navy, Tradewinds Gray, or Scarlet Red.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Mujjo Full Leather Wallet Case Best leather case for iPhone 14 Eco-friendly, vegetable-tanned leather Super-slim, pocket-friendly profile Tonal metal side buttons Wallet pocket stores up to three cards Super-slim profile may not provide as much drop protection as other cases Mujjo's Leather Wallet Case is a must if you want a stylish, practical, eco-friendly case. The wallet pocket stores up to three cards, and the case is made from vegetable-tanned, eco-friendly leather that's gold-rated for its low environmental impact. Each super-slim case is lined with Japanese microfiber for security and insulation and has a rich color and durable finish that will develop a gorgeous patina, becoming more beautiful with age. A 1mm raised leather bezel and raised camera bump protect your screen and camera from scratches, while redesigned side buttons in tonal metal are pleasingly clicky and responsive. This case also includes MagSafe for fast wireless charging. Grab it in your choice of three colors: tan, black, or Monaco Blue.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Incipio Kate Spade New York Protective Hardshell Case Best fashionable case for iPhone 14 Clear case with added personality Up to 10 feet of drop protection Made with recycled materials Antimicrobial technology built in Designs may not suit all tastes Want to show off your iPhone 14 but add your own stamp to it? The Kate Spade New York Protective Hardshell Case from Incipio ticks both boxes and provides some serious protection too. In fact, this dual-layer case with its shock-resistant bumper protects against drops up to 10 feet. Made from recycled materials, it's lightweight and has a grippy finish, plus in-built antimicrobial technology to protect against up to 99.9% of surface bacteria. What's more, it works with MagSafe charging accessories and comes with a limited lifetime warranty. If you love Kate Spade's pretty designs but don't want to skimp on protection, you can snap this case up in a choice of three floral designs, leopard print, or a pink/purple ombre with sparkling gems (pictured).
Image used with permission by copyright holder Totallee Ultra-Thin Case Best minimalistic case for iPhone 14 Slim, minimalist design Choice of four transparent colors or frosted clear Raised lip protects screen and camera Not the most rugged drop protection The iPhone is a pretty sleek device, so why would you want to add extra bulk with a case? With Totallee's Super-Thin case, you don't need to. This case is just 0.33 inches thick and made from soft, grippy TPU that absorbs shock. Its slim, minimalist design is ideal for those who just want to protect their phone without branding or intricate designs, and it comes in a choice of four transparent colors or a frosted clear option. There's a raised lip around the screen and camera to keep them safe, and it'll protect from minor drops (from around waist height), though you'll want to pair it with a screen protector for the best protection.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Casetify Bounce Case Best drop protection case for iPhone 14 Protects against drops up to 21.3 feet Bounce corners protect against structural damage EcoShock material dissipates shock More expensive than many other cases Casetify's most protective case yet, the Bounce Case offers a whopping 21.3 feet of drop protection — six times the Military Standard.
 This colored transparent case boasts "Bounce Corners" inspired by suspension bridges. Compression ribs with three air cavities provide cushioned protection and bounce-back to protect your phone from structural damage if you drop it. The inner sides and back of this case are reinforced with EcoShock material, which helps dissipate shock, and is made with 40% plant-based material. You can also rest assured you're making an eco-friendly choice here, as Casetify's Re/Casetify program recycles unwanted and used cases. This case comes in a choice of colors, all customizable with a name, message, or pattern in your font of choice. The downside? It doesn't come cheap.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nomad Modern Leather Case Best professional case for iPhone 14 Made from genuine raw, vegetable-tanned Horween leather Up to 10 feet of drop protection MagSafe compatible Choice of two colors You'll need a separate screen protector A leather case is a classic that will never go out of style. This one from Nomad offers up to 10 feet of drop protection packed into a sleek, ultra-thin yet rugged case. Made from genuine raw, vegetable-tanned Horween leather from one of America's oldest tanneries, it will develop a beautiful patina over time that's totally unique to each case. Raised edges provide additional screen protection, and this case is MagSafe compatible too. You'll definitely need to invest in a separate screen protector, though. Pick up this case in black or brown leather.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Apple Silicone Case with MagSafe Best official case for iPhone 14 Silky-soft silicone case Wide choice of vibrant colors Soft microfiber lining Built-in MagSafe compatibility Not the cheapest option out there Apple's Silicone Case is ideal if you're craving the complete Apple experience for your new iPhone 14. This silky-soft silicone case comes in a wide array of eight colors, but we like the Lilac option, a gorgeous match for the purple iPhone 14. A soft microfiber lining cushions your phone against scratches and scuffs, while built-in magnets mean you can use the case with your choice of MagSafe accessories.
 It's not the cheapest case around, but it's far from the most expensive, either.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Mous Limitless 5.0 MagSafe Compatible Case Best unique case for iPhone 14 Built-in magnets for MagSafe compatibility Choice of stylish backplates in wood, leather, pearl, or fabric finishes Ripple grip ribs reduce the risk of drops AiroShock technology for protection if you do drop your phone Not the most colorful designs If you like your cases like your phones — sleek, stylish, and considered — then the Limitless 5.0 case from Mous will check all your boxes. This stylish case comes with a choice of refined backplates. We love the Walnut version, pictured, but it also comes in lighter bamboo wood, or you can choose between Aramid Fiber, black leather, Silver Pearl, or a speckled black and white fabric. Under the hood, there's some serious protection happening, with impact-absorbing AiroShock technology, ultra-rigid materials, a microfiber lining to shield against scratches, and a high-defense camera bump, plus a lip around the screen for added protection. The rippled grip ridges give serious grip, reducing the risk of you dropping your phone, and a ring of N45 neodymium magnets ensures this case is compatible with your choice of MagSafe accessories.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Speck Presidio2 Grip Case Best grip case for iPhone 14 Up to 13 feet of drop protection Microban antimicrobial protection Armor Cloud Technology acts like an airbag for your phone Nonslip inverted grips Not as grippy as some other Speck cases The best way to protect against drops is to prevent them from happening. Speck's Presidio2 Grip Case aims to do just that, with nonslip inverted grips and a soft-touch finish to keep your phone firmly in hand. If you do happen to drop your phone, don't stress! This case protects against drops of up to 13 feet with Armor Cloud Technology. The perimeter of the case is lined with tiny air capsules that act like an airbag, compressing on impact to provide a cushion of air for your phone. There's in-built Microban antimicrobial protection, which provides up to a 99% reduction in stain- and odor-causing bacteria on the surface of your case, and a raised bezel around the screen prevents it from shattering or scratching if your phone lands face down. This case comes in a choice of five multi-tonal colors and offers a precise fit for your iPhone 14, with ultra-responsive buttons. Some reviews have mentioned that it's not as grippy as some other Speck cases, though.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Spigen Tough Armor MagFit Case Best kickstand case for iPhone 14 Tough multilayered protection MagSafe compatible Fold-out kickstand Colors aren't the most exciting Tough on your phone? Then you'll want a case that withstands it all. Spigen's Tough Armor Case to the rescue! This case provides a multilayered defense against drops and dings thanks to its tough PC and TPU construction. There's a fold-out kickstand for hands-free calls or viewing, plus built-in MagSafe compatibility, and it comes in a choice of three colors. Buy it right now from Spigen and you'll even get a free screen protector thrown in (this promotion was active at the time of writing). If we had anything negative to say, it's that the colors on offer are a little basic, but that's no bad thing if you care more about rugged protection than a colorful case.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Otterbox Commuter Series Case Best durable case for iPhone 14 Dual-layer polycarbonate and synthetic rubber case MagSafe and Qi charging compatible Made with 35% recycled plastic Excellent drop protection May not work with wireless charging pads No list of cases is complete without an entry from Otterbox, a brand we trust for its protective phone cases. Our pick of the bunch for your iPhone 14 is the Commuter Series Case, which comes in four imaginatively-named colors, including Trees Company, a deep green that's our pick of the bunch, Into the Fuchsia (pink), Don't be Blue, and black. Designed for life on the go, this case offers dual-layer defense with a PC shell and synthetic rubber slipcover for added grip. Port covers keep out dust and dirt while the slim, pocket-friendly profile makes it easy to slide your phone into a pocket. This case is compatible with both Qi charging and MagSafe charging (though there are no magnets) and protects against three times as many drops as the military standard. It's an eco-friendly choice, too, as it's made with 35% recycled plastic.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Ghostek Atomic Slim 4 Prismatic Aluminium MagSafe Case Best heavy-duty case for iPhone 14 Slim, lightweight, military-grade alloy frame Raised edges around the screen and camera Charging port cover keeps dust, dirt, and water out MagSafe compatible Only available in one colorway What's slim and light yet offers surprisingly durable protection for your new iPhone? The Atomic Slim 4 Prismatic Aluminum MagSafe Case from Ghostek. This shock- and scratch-resistant case has a hybrid dual-layer construction, with a lightweight military-grade alloy frame, raised edges around the screen and camera to stop them from touching down, and a silicone charging port cover that keeps out dust, dirt, and water. The only negative? It's currently only available in one colorway, which may not be to all tastes.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Tech21 Evo Sparkle MagSafe Case Best clear case for iPhone 14 Clear case with added sparkle Advanced antimicrobial technology built in Up to 12 feet of drop protection MagSafe compatible Not the easiest to remove Want to show off your new iPhone but find clear cases a bit boring? This sparkle case from Tech21 has you covered. It boasts anti-yellowing technology and an exclusive sparkle effect that glitters and sparkles when it catches the light. It's more than just a pretty case, though, with up to 12 feet of drop protection and advanced antimicrobial protection built in. There's also a raised bezel around the camera to keep it safe from harm and superb scratch resistance so your case — and your phone — stay looking as good as new.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Case-Mate Blox The Square Case Best unusual case for iPhone 14 Unusual contemporary square case Up to 10 feet of drop protection Built-in magnets for MagSafe compatibility Wide range of colors to choose from Square corners might not be to all tastes The iPhone 14 already stands out in a sea of competition, but if you want to stand out even more, this is the case for you. Unlike most rounded-edged cases, the Blox case is a square case that boasts a stylish, contemporary vibe. On offer is up to 10 feet of drop protection, with a raised edge around the camera and screen. There are flexible sides for added grip, and the materials used in the construction of this case are designed to resist scratches and prevent yellowing. There are also built-in magnets, so this case is compatible with all MagSafe chargers and accessories. It's crafted using standard certified recycled content, too, so it's a sustainable choice as well as a beautiful one. Pick it up in a range of cool colors, including black, clear, Matte Clay (a terracotta pink), Neon Lemon, Neon Watermelon, Rainbow Frosting (clear with iridescence), or — our pick — Gilded Age, a luscious gold.
More Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends OtterBox OtterGrip Symmetry Series Case Best ergonomic case for iPhone 14 Slim profile Integrated adjustable phone grip Grip folds flat for wireless charging compatibility Colorful designs MagSafe compatible Limited colors and designs The OtterBox OtterGrip Symmetry Series is a unique case that has an integrated phone grip built right in. Like the other Symmetry Series cases, this one has a slim profile, so it's not too bulky, and it's easy to get on and off when needed. The buttons are clicky and tactile, and the cutouts are precise. But the real magic is with the phone grip, which is integrated directly on the back of the case and folds flat when not in use. When you pull it out, it has a full 360-degree range of motion so you can find the perfect angle for your fingers, and the stretchy material lets you adjust it to fit one or two fingers as necessary for a comfortable grip. And because the grip is flat when not in use, this case lets you charge wirelessly without taking the case off. It's also fully MagSafe compatible.
I used it with the iPhone 14 Pro, but it is available for all iPhone 14 models.
More Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends OtterBox Symmetry Series+ Disney Princess Case Best Disney case for iPhone 14 Slim profile Tactile buttons and precise cutouts Durable and tough protection Cute design with Disney princesses MagSafe compatible Not all Disney Princesses featured OtterBox's Symmetry Series cases are some of its best. These feature a slim profile that is not too bulky but still offers that trusted OtterBox protection. The cutouts are precise, and the buttons are nice and clicky when pressed — giving users great tactile feedback.
This particular collection features five of Disney's most beloved princesses: Ariel, Belle, Cinderella, Jasmine, and Tiana. Each case has a decorative pattern on the back that is themed for the princess, along with an inspirational quote and a large image of the princess herself. The best part? These cases are all fully MagSafe compatible, which is rare with OtterBox's Disney cases.
PopSockets PopSockets iPhone 14 Case with Phone Grip and MagSafe Best PopSocket iPhone 14 case Comes with PopSockets Slide Phone Grip Beautiful colors Tough and durable protection MagSafe compatible Compatible with PopSockets accessories PopSockets branding around camera Love PopSockets? Then you should check out the company's phone cases! The PopSockets phone case comes with a PopGrip Slide grip that you can easily reposition on the case by sliding it up and down. It also has a MagSafe ring, so you can use all of your MagSafe accessories with it, and it's compatible with the PopSocket ecosystem of accessories. And best of all is that the PopGrip that comes with it is swappable, so you can easily swap out the PopGrip with any other swappable PopTop (there are tons to choose from).
The case itself is tough and durable, with tactile clicky buttons and precise cutouts. The colors are also very pretty, and you can find more designs on the PopSocket website. The only negative is the little PopSockets branding tag near the camera cutout.
Velvet Caviar Velvet Caviar iPhone 14 Case Best stylish iPhone 14 case Many unique and stylish designs Tough and durable protection Integrated MagSafe Tactile clicky buttons Definitely more feminine designs Velvet Caviar is one of the better case manufacturers around if you are looking for stylish designs that will turn heads. There are many different designs to choose from, though the holographic blue marble featured here is one of the more iconic ones. It has a distinctive marble look with holographic foil that is beautiful to look at in the sunlight.
But the case isn't just stylish, it's also very protective. It has tactile buttons that feel great to press, precise cutouts, raised bezels on the front to protect the glass, and integrated MagSafe. Plus, the price is reasonable for such a unique design.
Sonix Sonix Case for iPhone 14 Best bold iPhone 14 case Plenty of beautiful design patterns Collaborations with Sanrio and other brands Durable protection Integrated MagSafe Mostly feminine designs Another great brand of phone case is Sonix. There are a lot of designs to choose from, especially directly on its website, and there are even collaborations with brands like Sanrio. But its original designs are also bold and vibrant, which are sure to turn heads when you're out.
The case itself is easy to get on and off, and it provides tactile buttons, precise cutouts, and tough protection. You also have integrated MagSafe for all of your accessories. These have been reliable cases year after year, and it's personally one of my favorite brands.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Over 3,000 iPhone 15 cases discounted for early Black Friday — from $3 The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Best Products Mobile Choosing the best phone in 2023 can be quite challenging as there are so many excellent options available. Whether you are an iPhone fan, an Android user, or open to any smartphone, finding the perfect one for you may seem like a daunting task. But don't worry, we're here to help! Below, we have compiled a list of our top picks for the best phones you can currently buy. We believe that there's something for everyone on this list, and we're confident that you'll find a phone that suits your preferences perfectly.
Mobile Tablets may not be the hot new thing in 2023, but they're still excellent machines for streaming movies, playing games, or getting work done on the go. And while it seems like the best iPads dominate most of the tablet market, there are still plenty of excellent Android tablet options you should consider.
Whether you want an ultra-premium and superpowerful option, or something more affordable and compact, the Android tablet market has something for everyone. No matter your budget or spec preferences, here are the best Android tablets you can buy in 2023.
Mobile If you can no longer wait for Black Friday to buy a new smartphone, the good news is that you can already take advantage of some early Black Friday phone deals. We're not sure until when they'll remain available, and if their prices will change once the shopping holiday arrives, but if you're interested in any of the offers that we've highlighted below, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase immediately.
Apple iPhone 15 -- $60 per month Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
