Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Google Pixel 8 cases in 2023: 15 best ones you can buy By Mark Jansen and Bryan M. Wolfe Close The Google Pixel 8 has finally arrived, and if you are one of the many who have bought it, it’s high time to invest in a quality phone case to safeguard your device. A brand new phone is delicate and highly prone to damage, which can lead to a significant replacement cost. Purchasing a phone case is a wise decision to ensure the safety of your phone right from day one.
There are a variety of cases available on the market from some of the biggest brands that offer great protective features. Here, we have compiled a list of 15 of the best Google Pixel 8 cases that are currently available.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More Spigen Spigen Ultra Hybrid Clear Case The best clear Google Pixel 8 case Strong hybrid protection Completely clear Resistant to yellowing Will still yellow eventually The Pixel 8 comes in a variety of vibrant colors, and if that's been a big factor in your purchase, then keep it protected with a case that allows your phone's color to shine through. This case from Spigen is completely clear, allowing for an unobstructed view of your device's sleek curves and beautiful bold color. It's not lacking in protection either; Spigen has opted for a hybrid build with flexible TPU and hard polycarbonate, creating a solid Pixel 8 case that protects your phone from a number of everyday hazards.
While this isn't as protective as a "rugged" case, it's a lot stronger than most clear cases, and great as an everyday case. Also keep in mind the yellowing factor. The Pixel 8 has been cleared for seven years of updates, meaning it's possible for your phone to last that long. This case's TPU elements will yellow as it ages, even though it's been treated to reduce the speed at which it does. You will probably have to replace this case eventually if you're looking to max out your phone's life, but it's available at a good price, so that's not a huge issue Ringke Ringke Onyx Grip Case The best grip Google Pixel 8 case Grippy texture Lightweight and slim Flexible TPU material Could be more protective The Pixel 8 isn't the slipperiest phone around, but it would still benefit from a little extra grip, and that's where cases like Ringke's Onyx step in. It's made entirely from flexible and soft TPU, which offers a pliable surface for your fingers that's further enhanced with a matte, granulated texture.
As it's a Ringke case, it also has two QuikCatch lanyard attachment points, so you can double down on drop-proofing with a wrist or a shoulder strap. The flexible TPU, though bolstered, isn't going to be as protective as a hybrid or rugged case, and offers protection against scratches, bumps, and minor drops.
UAG UAG Scout Series Rugged Case The best slim rugged Google Pixel 8 case Strong, rugged protection Lightweight Lanyard attachment point Design is a little boring If you're planning on taking your Google Pixel 8 out adventuring — and with a camera like that, you should — then a good rugged case is a must to keep your phone from falling prey to the hazards of the great outdoors. UAG's Scout series case is a great choice if you want a rugged case. It's made from TPU and features UAG's armor shell and shock-resistant inner impact core, giving it UAG's signature strong and rugged protection against a large number of hazards.
Despite all this protection, it's slim and lightweight. The design doesn't flaunt its rugged protection, but it also doesn't do anything exciting, which leaves us with an uncharacteristically boring case from UAG. Still, if that doesn't put you off, there's a lot to love here.
Otterbox Otterbox Defender Rugged Case The best rugged Google Pixel 8 case Strong, rugged protection Multiple layers of defense Holster kickstand Expensive Otterbox makes some of the best rugged cases, and if you want a big, strong, solid case that will stand up against almost everything, then it's an Otterbox case you want. The Defender is Otterbox's classic case, and there are a lot of great reasons why it's been around for so long. The Defender is made from a rubber slipcover bolstered by a polycarbonate shell, creating a case with strong shock- and drop-resistance, and great scratch-resistance as well.
The optional polycarbonate holster can be used to clip your phone onto a belt, or as a stand. It adds a fair amount of additional weight and thickness to your device. The Defender is very much on the expensive side for a case, but it's the best choice if you want the most rugged protection.
More Speck Speck ImpactHero Slim Case The best drop-proof Google Pixel 8 case 8-foot drop protection Soft-touch coating Antimicrobial protection Boring design Drops are some of the most destructive hazards your phone can face, so getting a case that can protect against falls and bumps is often the biggest priority for most people. Speck has always done well with drop-proof cases, and while you can just buy the best rugged case and call it a day, sometimes a more specialized case is worth considering. The ImpactHero Slim case offers great drop protection without adding a significant amount of thickness and weight to your device. It protects against drops of up to 8 feet, while a soft-touch coating helps you to keep your grip on your phone. After all, the best way to stop drops is to make sure it stays in your hands.
An antimicrobial treatment also means a reduction in stain- and odor-causing bacteria, and there's a raised edge to keep your screen and camera lenses from resting on surfaces. It's good that it comes with all these features too, as it's a bit of a boring case to look at, which may put some people off.
Mous Mous Clarity 2.0 MagSafe Case The best MagSafe Google Pixel 8 case Strong Mous protection MagSafe compatibility Lanyard attachment points Expensive MagSafe ? On an Android phone? Yes, absolutely. MagSafe is basically just Qi wireless charging on a fancy magnetic pad, and since the Google Pixel 8 is Qi-compatible, you might as well use a MagSafe connector if you have one.
This case from Mous offers strong protection without compromising on your ability to connect to a MagSafe charger, thanks to the magnet in the case's back. The clear design allows you to show off your chosen color, and Mous's AiroShock technology augments the case's protective qualities significantly, so you can be sure you're still getting a strong case. Mous is as expensive as ever, but it's definitely worth the investment.
Snakehive Snakehive Leather Wallet Case The best leather Google Pixel 8 case Genuine leather material Wallet slots Cover doubles as stand Design is a little odd We love a good wallet case, and genuine leather always makes a wallet case even better. While you can spend hundreds of dollars on a leather case, why bother when Snakehive makes leather wallet cases this good and affordable? The Snakehive wallet case is made from top-grain nubuck leather which feels soft and luxurious in the hand. It'll age gracefully, developing a beautiful patina as it gets older, making it the perfect companion for a phone that can potentially go the distance.
It comes in a number of colors, so you can match your case to your phone's color or your own style. It also comes with a number of card slots in the front cover, which also serves as a stand. The design is a little bit odd, with a "peekaboo"-style window for the camera lenses, but that's a relatively small gripe. This is a great leather case for a wonderful price.
Moment Moment Camera Case The best camera Google Pixel 8 case Additional utility for an already amazing camera Good protection MagSafe compatible Very expensive to get the most out of it The Google Pixel 8 has an incredible and versatile camera with a lot to offer, and if you're serious about your snapping pics, Moment's case is a great way to boost your phone camera's performance. Moment's case works flawlessly thanks to its T-series of smartphone lenses , which attach over the Pixel 8's lenses with a simple twist.
Those lenses aren't the cheap clip-on lenses you can buy anywhere, either — they're high-quality, premium products that add versatility (with examples being the macro, anamorphic, and fish-eye lenses, among many others). They're very expensive, though, and even buying a single lens can set you back $100 — which, when added to the case, can mean an expensive overall package. The case is good though, thankfully, with air pockets for drop protection, a suede inner lining, and a lanyard attachment point.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Ghostek Nautical Slim Waterproof case The best waterproof Google Pixel 8 case Waterproof, including port covers Strong, rugged protection Built-in screen protection Adds bulk to phone The Google Pixel 8 has an IP68-rating for dust and water resistance, but if you're planning on taking your Pixel into or even near water, you may want some extra reassurances that your phone will be safe and dry. If that's you, then Ghostek's Nautical Slim case is what you need.
The fully sealed case comes with all-around protection, including a built-in screen protector and waterproof port plugs that make sure your phone is kept safe from potentially destructive water ingress. It's a strong, rugged case in its own right as well, with solid drop-proofing and raised edges, though keep in mind that all of this protection does add a certain amount of bulk to the case.
VRS Design VRS Design Damda Glide Hybrid The best utility Google Pixel 8 case Great price Kickstand and card backpack Good, solid protection Adds a lot of extra bulk The Google Pixel 8 can do a lot, but there are also quite a few things it can't do. If you want to maximize the utility of your Pixel 8, then a case like this one from VRS Design is worth checking out. It's a rugged case, so it's very protective, but there's a lot more on offer here than just brawn.
The back of the case is extended, and it slides over to reveal a card-storing backpack, with room for up to four credit cards. You can store anything here if it's thin enough, from spare cash to travel tickets. There's also a kickstand integrated into the back of the case, giving you even more utility. The downside is it's a massive case, simply because it has to be. The price is great, but if you have small pockets, then think twice about buying this.
Caseology Caseology Nano Pop Silicone Case The best creative Google Pixel 8 case Great silicone feel Unique dual-color combinations Four options to choose from It hides the Pixel 8's design Just like the Google Pixel 8, the Nano Pop series by Caseology features two-tone colors in each design, giving it a sporty look that is definitely worth considering. The result is a fun and playful design that complements Google’s newest smartphone perfectly.
The case’s biggest advantage is that it highlights the Pixel 8's camera bar. The case is available in four different color combinations: Blueberry Navy, Burgundy Bean, Black Sesame, and Magenta Lychee. It does hide the Pixel 8's own lovely design, but if you want to change up the colors with something else, this is a great way to do it.
Spigen Spigen Slim Armor CS The best wallet Google Pixel 8 case Not bulky Simple design Holds cash and cards Limited color options Carrying cash and bank cards using your phone case doesn’t have to add bulk. The Spigen Slim Armor CS is a perfect example of this. It is made from PC and TPU materials for durability and features a built-in compartment that can hold two cards and some cash while keeping your Pixel 8 slim.
It also offers Air Cushion Technology to protect your phone from accidental drops and raised edges to safeguard your screen and camera. The only downside is that it’s only available in two colors, black and rose gold.
Rancase Rancase The best full-body protection Google Pixel 8 case Bright and colorful Unique marble pattern Great all-around protection Few color choices for now If you’re looking for a phone case that provides excellent protection for your Google Pixel 8 while also making it stand out, you might want to consider the Rancase. This case is available in two colors, purple and green, and features a beautiful and cute marble pattern on the back cover that gives your phone a glamorous and fashionable look. It comes with a flexible silicon raised bumper and four rubber corners that provide additional protection.
RMOCR RMOCR Phone Cover The best lanyard Google Pixel 8 case Comes with a lanyard Lots of color options Inexpensive Includes a screen protector Potentially too bulky for some people The RMOCR Phone Cover is a great choice for those looking for a Google Pixel 8 case that offers a lot of features at a low price. In addition to the case, it comes with a separate HD tempered glass screen protector, a camera lens protector, and an adjustable nylon hand wrist strap.
The nonslip design provides excellent grip, and it’s available in seven different colors.
Tauri TAURI 5 in 1 Best bundle Google Pixel 8 case Shows off the Pixel 8's design Tempered glass screen protector Camera lens protector A tad bulky The Tauri case is specifically designed for the Google Pixel 8, with precise cutouts that allow quick access to buttons, speakers, and the charging slot. It includes high-quality 9H tempered glass and two lens protectors for the camera. You can choose from four different options: Crystal Clear, Black, Lite Blue, and Magnetic Clear.
The case is equipped with a nano-antioxidant layer that prevents yellowing and resists stains and sweat, ensuring that it stays looking new for longer.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore The best Google Pixel 8 Pro cases in 2023: 20 best ones The original Google Pixel Watch is a great buy while it’s $80 off The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy Android Best Products Google Google Pixel Mobile Folding smartphones have taken the world by storm. Initially, they appeared futuristic and exciting. However, with time, they have been refined and improved to cater to everyday use. Their prices are gradually decreasing as the technology advances, but they still remain expensive purchases, making it crucial to make the right buying decision.
Currently, there are two types of folding smartphones available in the market. The first type resembles a regular non-folding phone, which can be unfolded into a larger tablet-like device. The second type is similar to the classic Motorola Razr clamshell phones, where a normal-sized phone can be folded in half to become more compact and pocketable. Although both use the same screen and hinge technology, they cater to different needs.
Mobile Waiting on an iPhone upgrade? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event. The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
Mobile Let's face it, a charger is probably the most important accessory you'll ever buy for your iPhone. After all, most of us need to charge our iPhones at least once a day — sometimes even more — so it's important to have the right chargers around to get the job done.
Thankfully, the popularity of the iPhone means there's no shortage of options for both wired and wireless charging — and you have even more now that the iPhone 15 has finally made the switch to USB-C.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
