Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 Review Google Pixel Watch vs Apple Watch Series 8 Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Is the Apple Watch Series 8 Waterproof? Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Home Mobile Features Apple Health vs. Samsung Health? What I learned after using both By Andy Boxall Close One of the main reasons to wear a smartwatch is to track your health, exercise, and sleep. Both Apple and Samsung have comprehensive health platforms, Apple Health and Samsung Health, but are they really much different from each other? The apps Daily activity Fitness tracking data Sleep tracking All the extras Which is the best to use? We’ve been using both, connected to the Apple Watch Series 8 and the Samsung Galaxy Watch 5, to find out.
The apps Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The apps installed on your phone are very important, not just to connect it to your smartwatch, but also to see all your data, so which one is best? Well, neither system requires only one app. On an iPhone, the standard Watch app connects the phone to your Apple Watch, while you need both Apple Health and Apple Fitness to see your data. All are pre-installed on your phone. The Apple Watch only works with the iPhone, remember.
How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The Apple Watch could get two amazing health features next year Something strange is happening with my Apple Watch Series 9 To use the Galaxy Watch 5, you need Samsung’s Wear app to connect the smartwatch to your phone. Additionally, you need Samsung Health for all your exercise and health data, plus there’s a one-time installation of a plugin for the Galaxy Watch 5 if you aren’t using a Samsung phone. Both the Health and Wear apps come pre-installed on Samsung phones, and can be downloaded through Google Play for other Android phones.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends Having to use Apple Health and Apple Fitness is a little confusing, and I’d really like to see Apple combine the two together into one, single app in the future. It would make it more streamlined. Having only one app, as with Samsung Health, makes more sense, but there is a potential problem with this, as we will see later on. Connection and setup of both smartwatches are simple and don’t take long, although you do have to pay more attention to the Samsung platform after you’ve paired the watch.
Why? Some features are turned off by default or require some kind of activation to work, including blood oxygen monitoring, stress monitoring, and the always-on screen. All these have to be set up individually, and may not work until you do. There are fewer steps needed to enable all the Apple Watch’s features, as most are on by default, making it a more user-friendly smartwatch out-of-the-box.
Daily activity Apple Health and Fitness apps Andy Boxall/Digital Trends This is the main screen you see when you want to check how active (or not) you’ve been during the day. It needs to be informative, but not too dense. Apple’s “ring” system has three rings to close on a daily basis, covering your movement goal, which is based on calorie burn, the amount of exercise you’ve done in minutes, and an hourly stand goal.
It’s very clear how far you are from meeting your targets, plus there’s a complete breakdown of each category underneath the ring display if you want more details. It’s excellent.
Samsung Health Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Samsung uses a similar three-goal system covering activity/calorie burn, active time in minutes, and steps. These are displayed in the shape of a heart rather than a circle. Apple doesn’t put any emphasis on step count at all. It’s there in the app, but you really have to search for it, while Samsung incorporates it into its daily set of goals. I personally like to know my step count as it’s an easy metric to understand, but appreciate that calorie burn is a better, more motivational figure to work towards.
The Apple Watch clearly shows your progress towards your goals using the ring system when you open Apple Fitness on the watch, while Samsung’s heart system is the first Tile to the right of the main watch face. The way Apple and Samsung’s daily activity goals’ data are displayed is very similar, and both are equally as effective.
Fitness tracking data Previous Next 1 7 Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends There are some interesting design differences n the app, but otherwise, the way the two record data during a workout is very similar. It’s simple to track a workout on both smartwatches, and there are multiple different modes to choose from.
I have found the GPS tracking on both smartwatches to be equally accurate, and the display on both to be equally informative during and after exercise. Samsung’s auto-pause when out walking or running is a distinct difference between the two, and it’s useful and highly accurate.
Previous Next 1 5 Apple Watch Series 8 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Apple Watch Series 8 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple Watch Series 8 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Apple Watch Series 8 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Apple Watch Series 8 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / .
The Galaxy Watch 5 does provide a lot more information on your activity both during and after, but the way it’s presented is long-winded. The Apple Watch may show a little less data immediately after you complete a workout, but it is presented more concisely, and you don’t need to scroll very far to see everything you need to know.
After the data has synced with the app — something that happens automatically on both smartwatches and has been perfectly reliable on both — Apple manages to pull ahead of Samsung. In the Apple Fitness app, each workout clearly shows the data you want at the top of the screen. You immediately see what kind of workout it was, how long you exercised, calorie burn, and average heart rate.
Apple Health and Fitness Andy Boxall/Digital Trends If you walked or ran, you also get pacing, elevation, split times, and more additional data. Each section can be tapped to show more information, and you scroll down the page for GPS and weather data. It’s all very clear, and you really don’t have to dig for crucial information. Oddly, Samsung buries a lot of information further down the page, preferring to use a massive amount of space for the time, calorie burn, and heart rate chart. If GPS was active, the map dominates the top of the page.
Samsung Health Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s unfortunate because there’s a lot of rich data in the Samsung Health app, but you do have to scroll to find it. It adds in recovery time, VO2 max information, speed, cadence, and pacing, plus a lot more.
Samsung just seems to have no idea how to organize it, and instead just creates a big, long list for you to dig through. With better organization, Samsung Health would match and potentially beat Apple Fitness, but as it is, Apple’s app is more engaging, less complicated, and far less work.
Sleep tracking Apple Health and Fitness Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Sleep data is found in the Apple Health app, not Apple Fitness. While the split makes sense when you consider the names of the apps, it’s not especially user-friendly. However, once again, the way Apple presents the data is more visually enticing and logical than the long-winded way Samsung shows the data in the Samsung Health app.
Apple puts the graph showing your sleep stages at the top of the page, along with your time asleep and time in bed. You can immediately see the quality of your sleep, and then drill down into more information below. The more you wear your Apple Watch and track your sleep, the greater the insights. However, you do have to explore the rest of the Health app to find individual reports on blood oxygen levels and heart rate.
Samsung Health Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Samsung Health app shows your time asleep at the top of the page, but you have to scroll down to see the different stages. When you do, the app also shows blood oxygen and any snoring data, if you have the feature active. It’s a shame the page design has so much wasted space, as all the data you want is there. It would just be preferable to not have to scroll around to see it all.
What about wearing the smartwatches at night? I found the smooth, curved Apple Watch with a Sport Loop or Braided Sport Loop band very comfortable to wear overnight, and barely noticed it on my wrist. The standard Sport band, or the leather and metal bands, are less comfortable. I found it took longer to get used to wearing the Galaxy Watch 5 overnight, but the soft, standard Sport Band doesn’t get hot or sweaty. However, the Galaxy Watch 5 Pro is too big and heavy for me to wear overnight, as is the Apple Watch Ultra.
All the extras Joe Maring / Digital Trends Daily activity, workouts, and sleep are the core functions of both Samsung and Apple’s apps, but there are plenty of additional features that help provide a better picture of your health. There are feature differences between the smartwatches; for example, the Galaxy Watch 5 provides a body composition measurement and stress measurement, and the Apple Watch has Crash Protection and noise level warnings.
Dig into the Apple Health app, and there’s a wealth of information based on data the iPhone collects as you move around, with insight into everything from the way you walk to your body temperature taken from your wrist. You won’t want to see the data every day, but over time it becomes interesting to see how your body changes.
Apple Health is better at connecting to other platforms and apps than Samsung Health, which is limited to just a few. There is a third-party app called Health Sync that links Samsung Health to other products, including Fitbit, Garmin, and Coros watches. It also works with the Oura Ring and Withings products, but it does have a subscription fee attached. Apple Health is much better at connecting to other devices through Apple’s API program.
Which is the best to use? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Both Samsung Health and Apple’s Health and Fitness platforms are excellent, but there are subtle differences between them. Samsung tends to show a lot more information, or at least it doesn’t hide it away like Apple, but it makes the platform denser and less user-friendly. It’s unfortunate Apple has two apps, but this may be the reason both are better designed than Samsung Health — it’s able to spread data out to make it easier to digest.
Apple Health and Fitness apps make understanding your daily activity and exercise simple, and are ideal for casual or semi-serious athletes, along with people with specific needs, including if you’re in a wheelchair. Apple’s accessibility features also make the Apple Watch really easy to use, and while Samsung also has an extensive accessibility suite, it doesn’t appear quite as intuitive as Apple’s.
It’s a really close thing between these two. The Apple Watch Series 8 is the best smartwatch you can buy , and while Apple’s Health and Fitness apps can be confusing, the data they show is concise and helpful.
WatchOS 9 is packed with great workout and health features, and all of this combined makes it my preferred smartwatch and workout partner. However, the Galaxy Watch 5 and Samsung Health are a very close second, let down mostly by the app design and Wear OS’s idiosyncrasies.
If you’re choosing a new phone and smartwatch combination and are focused on health and fitness, we recommend the Apple Watch and an iPhone, but a Samsung phone and the Galaxy Watch 5 come a very close second.
Editors' Recommendations Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages Subscriptions are quickly ruining fitness trackers I tried Double Tap on my Apple Watch. Here’s why I love it You can already use the Apple Watch Series 9’s best new feature The Apple Watch Ultra 2 is (almost) exactly what I wanted Apple Apple Watch Features Health & Fitness Samsung Wearables Mobile Apple Event - September 12 Every year brings something new, and that's doubly true for smartphones. Summer is on the way out, and while the retreat of the sun is bad news for many, there's a bright silver lining on this cloud: The release of the Apple iPhone 15. Apple has brought the basic iPhones into line with the Pro models, giving even the cheapest flagship models access to the Dynamic Island and the design refresh that we loved in last year's Pro iPhones. But that isn't all, as the iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max were also revealed, with improvements of their own.
Mobile Apple's next press event is set to kick off today, Tuesday, September 12, beginning at 10:00 a.m. PT / 1:00 p.m. ET. The uniquely named "Wonderlust" event will almost certainly introduce the world to the iPhone 15 series and next-generation Apple Watches — including the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2. We could also see USB-C finally arriving on the Apple AirPods Pro.
Like last year's event, the iPhone 15 event will be streamed across various platforms, including Apple's website, on iPhone/iPad and Apple TV, X (formerly known as Twitter), and YouTube. Here's a look at how to stream the highly anticipated event as it happens later today.
How to watch the iPhone 15 event on your iPhone or iPad Mobile After a checkup at the doctor's several months ago, I was told to monitor my blood pressure regularly to ensure it didn't go up. I used the Withings BPM Connect to do so, which proved to be very successful. But since wearing the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic, I’ve been testing out its blood pressure monitoring tool.
It won’t replace a traditional blood pressure cuff, but it will absolutely complement it, and I've been truly impressed by its simplicity.
How to get started Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 (left) and Galaxy Watch 6 Classic Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
