Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Fitbit Ace 3 review: Feature-filled fitness tracker for kids By Kelly Hodgkins Close $80.00 Easy to use Comfortable, kid-sized fit Engaging, animated interface Fun, family challenges Clasp can break Works best with a parental Fitbit Activity trackers typically are targeted towards adults who want to get fit and stay fit. These trackers are sized for adults and have interfaces designed for adults and not kids. Though they may not be setting Fastest Known Times, kids can benefit from the health-improving effects of a fitness wearable.
Design: Small, but mostly sturdy Software: Fun and kid-friendly interface Performance: Viewing fitness stats can be annoying Our Take Fitbit wants to reach these children with its Ace 3 tracker that offers an animated interface and a kid-friendly design. How does the Fitbit Ace 3 stand up to the demands of childhood? We tested it with a few elementary-aged kids to find out.
Design: Small, but mostly sturdy Though it’s a kid’s device, the Ace 3 is no slouch. It has a three-axis accelerometer for step tracking and detailed sleep monitoring. There’s even a heart rate monitor, but it is not enabled, most likely for privacy reasons. On the surface, it appears that Fitbit took its adult tracker and pared it down for kids.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The touchscreen is small enough to fit a child’s wrist but not too small for children’s hands. My kids had no problem swiping or tapping on the display. The black and white display is big enough for kids to view their stats and bright enough to be viewable outside and inside. Unlike the Fitbit Ace 2 , which is completely wrapped in silicone, the Ace 3 has cutouts for the buttons, making them easy to press.
The Ace 3 is reminiscent of Fitbit’s early fitness trackers. It is comprised of a tiny fitness tracker unit that fits into a rugged silicone band. The band is sized for smaller wrists with a standard watch clasp that is easy to use. My kids, 8- and 10-years-old, had no problem taking the band on and off themselves. It was comfortable to wear day or night and we had no issues with any skin rashes. We did take some preventative measures that minimized skin irritation. After a day of outside play, we took off the tracker and washed both my kid’s wrist area and the tracker.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Though not as slim and sleek as Fitbit’s all-in-on trackers like the Charge 4 , the Ace 3 modular design is perfect for kids who tend to be hard on electronics. When the band breaks, it is easy to replace. Simply pop out the tracker unit and drop it into a new band. Be prepared to replace the band, especially if your kid likes to take the tracker on and off. We broke one band in our testing, while the second has withstood the test of time.
Software: Fun and kid-friendly interface The interface sticks to basic step counting and doesn’t overwhelm your kids with advanced metrics like heart rate analysis or calorie burn. It offers a handful of fun clock faces that my kids loved. Our favorites were the animated ones that change along with the fitness stats. The rocket ship, for example, moved closer to takeoff as the step count neared its goal. When they reached their goal, the rocket took off with a blast, much to my younger kid’s delight. I did find that the younger the child, the more they enjoyed these animations.
The Fitbit Ace 3 uses rewards and fun challenges that help kids adopt a healthy lifestyle.
Another feature we enjoyed was the family competitions, which let my kids challenge family members and friends to get the most steps in a day. We’d often find ourselves taking an extra walk around the block to get that extra step count boost. The Fitbit Ace 3 wisely uses more than one strategy to encourage your kids to move, as not every child will be motivated the same way. My younger child enjoyed the rewarding animations, while my older child seemed to be motivated more by this competition than by merely reaching his goal.
Performance: Viewing fitness stats can be annoying The Fitbit Ace 3 is a kid’s device and, as such, has a parental component that you must navigate. Nearly everything is done through the parent’s Fitbit account using the My Family tab in the Fitbit app. How you view your kid’s daily fitness statistics depends on whether they have their own mobile device or not. For older kids, you can install the Fitbit app on the child’s device, and they can track their stats themselves. It’s a bit more challenging to view the statistics with your younger children.
Younger kids who don’t have a mobile device need to use the Fitbit app on their parent’s phone or tablet to view their daily statistics. You can switch between two views — the parent’s view with their tracker information and a kid’s view with data from the child’s tracker. This kid’s view is simplified, making it easy for your kids to follow their progress without being overwhelmed with too many numbers.
Image used with permission by copyright holder My kids looked forward to checking their stats multiple times each day on my iPhone and frequently changing their watch faces. Unfortunately, it was a pain to switch between the kid’s and parent’s views. Every time you return to the parent view, you have to enter your password. I was unable to use fingerprint or face recognition for this authentication step so I had to type in my randomly generated, 12 character string. It was so annoying that I changed my Fitbit password to something shorter and easier to remember, likely compromising my account security for convenience.
Our Take The Fitbit Ace 3 takes the best qualities of its successful fitness tracker line and bundles it into a tracker designed exclusively for kids. The Ace 3 has a lively interface that encourages kids to move. It’s especially effective for elementary-aged kids who get caught up in the animations and family-friendly competitions. Older kids, like the rapidly-maturing tweens, may find this tracker too childish.
Is there a better alternative? The main competitor to the Fitbit Ace 3 is Garmin’s Vivofit Jr 2, which offers a similar playful interface. Both are very capable trackers for kids, so you should make your choice based on the platform. If you already own a Fitbit or plan to buy a Fitbit then the Ace 3 should be your first choice. It integrates seamlessly into the Fitbit app and allows for communication with and control over the child’s device. Likewise, those with a Garmin device should stick with Garmin’s ecosystem and grab a Vivofit Jr.
How long will it last? The Fitbit Ace 3 will last a few years depending on your child’s age and activity level. Your child may outgrow the device before it breaks. The weak point is the clasp of the band which is made out of plastic. Because the tracker can be removed from the band, though, you can simply replace the band if it happens to break. Thankfully, Fitbit offers a one-year limited warranty that covers it from defects in materials and workmanship under normal use.
Should you buy it? If you are looking for a new fitness tracker for your kids, the Fitbit Ace 3 should be at the top of your list. It has a comfortable fit and entertaining interface that will keep your child moving throughout the day. If you already own the Fitbit Ace 2 or a competing kid’s tracker, you don’t need to upgrade. The Ace 3 primarily offers an improved interface which is not a compelling enough reason to upgrade.
Editors' Recommendations The future of Fitbit doesn’t look good The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid The best fitness trackers in 2023: 12 best ones you can buy Best Prime Day Fitbit Deals for October 2022 Fitbit Versa 4 vs. Fitbit Sense 2: Which new Fitbit wins? Health & Fitness Wearables Fitbit Fitness Tracker Reviews Health & Fitness Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Fitbit has a busy slate of fitness wearables lined up for debut, but they have all been unceremoniously leaked, giving us a clear look at their design and color options. Tipster @OnLeaks (via 91Mobiles) has shared official-looking product renders of the Fitbit Versa 4 and the Sense 2 smartwatches. Tagging along the premium smartwatches is the Fitbit Inspire 3 fitness band.
The report doesn’t discuss a tentative launch date, but it likely isn’t too far off. The current-gen Fitbit wearables in the Versa, Sense, and Inspire lineup broke cover in August last year. If Fitbit aims to stick with a yearly refresh cycle — and given the opportune time of the latest leaks — the Sense 2, Versa 4, and Inspire 4 should be hitting the shelves in the coming weeks.
Mobile Fitbit has been helping people track their sleep information for over ten years. Now, the company's latest Fitbit Premium feature, Sleep Profile, will provide personalized data to improve sleep quality across the board. Previously, Fitbits were able to track nightly patterns such as sleep duration, restfulness, and REM sleep. While that information can be helpful for understanding a person's sleeping habits, Sleep Profile will up the ante by tracking even more data points and, perhaps more importantly, will help users understand how to interpret the data.
In addition to sleep duration, restfulness, and REM sleep, your Fitbit can now track sleep schedule variability, your time before sound sleep, and disrupted sleep. Users will have access to the individual data points after each night but won't receive any interpretation of the information until the end of each month. Sleep Profile will then analyze the data, compare it to other users, and give a full report on your sleep patterns.
Mobile If you've been around kids for a while, you know they love gadgets. Many parents are concerned their children are gripped by technology, but this doesn't always have to be a bad thing. Devices like fitness trackers can be useful for kids to encourage movement in a way that's actually fun, and they can help keep them fit and outside in a way not usually associated with technology as a whole. Intrigued? Here's a roundup of the best fitness trackers for kids.
Best fitness trackers for kids Fitbit Ace 3 Fan of Fitbit and want to get one for your kid? Consider the Fitbit Ace 3, a kids' version of the classic Fitbit fitness tracker. It tracks the number of steps taken, monitors movement, sends activity reminders, and even has bedtime alarms to make the parents' job easier. The tracker is waterproof so you don't have to worry about accidental spillage, and the kids can even take it swimming.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
