Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Fitbit Charge 5 review: A truly advanced fitness tracker By Yoona Wagener Close $180.00 Stylish and comfortable design Solid battery life Loaded with advanced health metrics Onboard GPS with multiple modes Supports Fitbit Pay Sometimes slow to swipe inputs Lacks some basic fitness/wellness tools Some features require Fitbit Premium The last Fitbit Charge tracker I used before the Charge 5 was the considerably less innovative first-generation Charge HR. After wearing the Charge 5 nonstop for a week, I came away impressed by how drastically different the experience is with Fitbit’s most advanced tracker ever. Even compared to the prior-generation Charge 4 , the Charge 5 kicks the whole fitness tracking wearable experience up a few notches.
Design and comfort Performance Advanced features Software Battery life Price and availability Our take The new design makes this tracker more comfortable and appealing, but it also comes with a hefty feature list that matches the brand’s most decked-out smartwatches. Most notably, the Charge 5 is the very first Fitbit fitness tracker to work with the Fitbit ECG app, joining the ranks of the Fitbit Sense smartwatch. For loyal Fitbit fans or first-time fitness tracker users, the revamped Charge 5 has a lot to offer in a super-wearable and user-friendly format.
Design and comfort It’s fair to say the Charge 5 received a makeover.
 In a departure from the boxy models before it, the Charge 5 takes a page from the rounded angles of the Fitbit Versa 3 or the Apple Watch Series 7.
 These softer lines make the Charge 5 more current and desirable to wear day in and day out. The Charge 5 also ups the quality with more premium materials than the plastic resin and rubber of the prior model. You’ll find a sturdier and better-looking tracker made of aluminum, glass, and resin with a silicone band — and an aluminum buckle in the sport band variation.
Previous Next 1 6 Yoona Wagener / Digital Trends Yoona Wagener / Digital Trends Yoona Wagener / Digital Trends Yoona Wagener / Digital Trends Yoona Wagener / Digital Trends Yoona Wagener / Digital Trends The replaceable bands are soft, flexible, and accommodating to smaller wrists — as petite as 5.1 inches — which I know firsthand is challenging to find with wearables. Both the standard and especially the sport band I tested felt like the first bands that fit my 5.5-inch wrist. I barely noticed I had the tracker on because it was so lightweight and fit so well. I only ever took it off before showering. It was also really comfortable to sleep with because of the quick-access sleep mode feature and the overall light build.
As for the display, Fitbit says that the Charge 5 is twice as bright in daylight as the Charge 4. While it suffers from the glare of the Corning Gorilla Glass case in direct sunlight, even on maximum brightness, the screen quality is a significant step up from the grayscale touchscreens of Charge trackers past.
I barely noticed I had the tracker on because it was so lightweight and fit so well.
Despite the glare issue, the display is impressive. Though the screen is small, with a 1.04-inch viewing area, it somehow feels spacious. It was easy to interact with and lacked major issues with responsiveness. I only experienced very minimal sluggishness with left-right swiping motions.
Performance The Charge 5 is a dedicated fitness tracker, so you’d expect to see support for some automatic workouts like running, walking, and cycling, which it does offer. Overall, the Charge 5 supports 20 exercise modes, seven of which feature GPS tracking.
The Charge 5 turned out to be a great motivator to schedule daily walks as my form of exercise while I’ve been sidelined from my near-daily running routine due to injury. It automatically captured several of my 30-minute to 1.5-hour treks and hikes without issue. When I launched walking workouts from the tracker, GPS capture lagged slightly but never took more than a minute or two to catch up.
Previous Next 1 3 Yoona Wagener / Digital Trends Yoona Wagener / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Yoona Wagener / Digital Trends I compared the tracking accuracy for my walks with a Samsung Galaxy Watch Active 2.
 While the Active 2 is definitely more of a smartwatch, it matches the Charge 5’s fitness and wellness focus. The Active 2 captures GPS much faster than the Charge 5 and has a responsive start/stop feature, which the Charge lacks, but the two were on pace performance-wise for logging my daily walk workouts. The Charge 5 met the Active 2 step for step on distance, average heart rate, and overall time.
The Charge 5 boasts an ambitious list of wellness specs.
While trackers are much more skewed toward wellness than smart features, I’ve noticed the best fitness trackers blend both in a meaningful way. The Charge 5 does this with features like Google Fast Pair with Android phones and contactless payment with Fitbit Pay. This tracker also offers notifications for calls, texts, and emails and quick-reply functionality for Android users.
 Notifications arrived promptly from my iPhone and were easy to view and clear with a few taps.
Advanced features The Fitbit brand is arguably more about wellness than fitness alone, and the Charge 5 boasts an ambitious list of wellness specs. In addition to the usual 24/7 heart rate monitoring, sleep cycle tracking, and active minutes and zones most Fitbits offer, this latest tracker also delivers blood oxygen saturation (SPO2) monitoring and electrodermal activity (EDA) stress level analysis. While more basic features like floors climbed and manual heart rate capture would have been nice, too, the Charge 5 focuses on the latest wellness technology.
The Charge 5 will soon offer Fitbit ECG app support, which allows you to take heart rhythm assessments directly from your wrist. It will also provide a new Daily Readiness Score for Premium members. This score analyzes your sleep and heart rate variability and looks for signs of fatigue to let you know if your body is ready to train or rest. The Daily Readiness Score seems similar to what I’ve seen in Garmin smartwatches aimed at multisport and triathlon tracking, which I’ve found to be pretty spot-on and helpful for training.
Yoona Wagener / Digital Trends Software The Charge 5 provides a streamlined summary of daily stats that’s easy to glance at. However, like other Fitbit wearables, it’s very much tied to the companion app for insight into how you’ve been sleeping, exercising, or moving according to the tracker. The app is also the key to customizations such as setting up Fitbit Pay, changing the clock face, and participating in challenges. Fortunately, the Fitbit app is very clean and unintimidating, though you might have to dig into a few hidden features if you’re unfamiliar with the layout.
You can dig into every data tile and learn more or remove (hide) them if you’re not interested in tracking them. None of the data appears overloaded with information. Sleep data can be particularly detailed without feeling inaccessible, providing an overall score and breakdowns of sleep phases. The app also offers tools to help you change your habits, like setting a smart wake alarm (to wake you gently 30 minutes before your alarm) or rating how stressed you’re feeling.
Yoona Wagener / Digital Trends The Premium subscription unlocks the deeper-level health metrics you might want to keep track of, like your heart rate variability, skin temperature fluctuations, and blood oxygen level (SPO2) saturation. It also allows you to access the one-stop-shop wellness features of Premium, with everything from guided exercise programs to tip on how to kick sugar for good. Regardless of whether you pass on or continue a Premium membership, the app interface is easy to navigate and offers an opportunity to be more involved with your data and habits.
Battery life Like the Charge 4, the Charge 5 promises a potential weeklong battery life. Using dynamic GPS mode, which relies on your phone’s GPS unless you don’t have it with you, and disabling the always-on display are a couple of the battery-saving features I took advantage of during my week of testing.
I experienced a solid 5.5 days, which seems like a fair outcome since I used the built-in GPS several times. While a whole week would’ve been ideal, this battery performance certainly bests some smartwatches that only last two days. It also took about 90 minutes to charge. This charging time tracks with Fitbit’s estimation of up to two hours to replenish the battery.
Price and availability The Charge 5 retails for approximately $180 and ships at the end of September. It comes in one standard model in three different color options (black/graphite, lunar white/soft gold, and steel blue/platinum) and small and large bands.
Our take The Fitbit Charge 5 is a stellar fitness tracker that elevates everything Fitbit trackers do well. Its compact and fashionable design makes it an ultra-wearable 24/7 accessory. But beyond the modern and streamlined look, it’s jam-packed with wellness features and data you can dive into with the user-friendly Fitbit app.
Is there a better alternative? You’ll be hard-pressed to find a match on all the same levels as the Charge 5. If you like the look of a traditional watch better and you’re tied to a particular smartphone OS, the Samsung Galaxy Watch Active2 or Apple Watch SE could be compelling. If you’re on a budget, the Samsung Galaxy Fit 2 more closely mirrors the look of the Charge 5 and comes with a modest but helpful assortment of workout modes, sleep tracking, and potential 15-day battery life depending on usage.
How long will it last? The Charge 5 is more advanced than any previous Charge. Given the material upgrades, advanced wellness support, and waterproof protection (for swimming at up to 50 meters), you should be in good shape for several years. If something unexpected happens, the Charge 5 comes with a one-year warranty.
Should you buy it? Yes, this is one of the best fitness trackers from a brand specializing in fitness and wellness. The Charge 5 is attractive, easy to wear, and is a strong choice for anyone who wants a tracker loaded with the latest innovations from Fitbit.
Editors' Recommendations The future of Fitbit doesn’t look good The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid The best fitness trackers in 2023: 12 best ones you can buy Best Fitbit in 2023: 6 best watches and trackers Does the Samsung Galaxy A14 5G have wireless charging? Fitbit Fitness Tracker Reviews Health & Fitness Phone Reviews Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Deals Are you looking for hot Fitbit deals for yourself or maybe as gifts for others? Well, pay attention because Amazon's two-day Prime Early Access Sale is almost over, it's the last day, which means all those amazing Prime Day Fitbit deals will be gone soon. Amazon calls it an "early access" sale because it gives you an extra-early start at shopping for the holidays well before the annual Black Friday extravaganza. Similar to Prime Day deals, we've seen tons of deep discounts on Amazon-owned brand products such as Echo, Ring, and Blink smart home devices, Kindles, Fire TVs, and Eero mesh Wi-Fi devices. Smartwatches and activity trackers are popular holiday gifts, and Amazon is offering some of the best prices of the year on new Fitbits as well as previous models of the popular wrist wearables.
Amazon isn't the only one having all of the fun though. Other retailers have joined in, as is to be expected, like Walmart's October Rollbacks event, which is basically just a Walmart Prime Day sale in disguise. Nevertheless, Amazon has some of the best offers! We've gathered up the best Prime Day Fitbit deals for you below! Today's best Prime Day Fitbit deals Fitbit Charge 5 -- $150, was $180 Mobile Fitbit is back with two new health-focused smartwatches, the Fitbit Versa 4 and the Fitbit Sense 2. Both watches are well-designed tools with health-tracking features, superseding the Fitbit Versa 3 and the original Sense.
While Google purchased Fitbit in the interim between both releases, these still use the company's proprietary Fitbit OS in lieu of Wear OS 3. For that, you'll need to get the Pixel Watch, the Samsung Galaxy Watch 5, or the Montblanc Summit 3. Instead, these releases from Fitbit iterate and refine what made their previous models so good. The good batteries and handsome designs remain, accompanied by changes to heft and feel and minor software tweaks here and there. With so much overlap, there's a question to be raised about which of the two is the better fit for your wrist and wallet, so which is better for you? We found out.
Specs Mobile Your Oura Ring smart ring now connects to Strava, one of the most popular fitness and sports-focused social networks. It’s the first partnership of its kind for Oura, which until now has only connected with Apple Health and Google Fit, and continues the smart ring’s push to become more attractive to fitness enthusiasts.
Oura Product Manager Brian Gilan said: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
