Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Fitbit Inspire 3 review: my new favorite fitness tracker By Andy Zahn Close $100.00 Lightweight Very comfortable Accurate fitness sensors Battery lasts over a week without a recharge Affordable price point Lacks an altimeter Charger is tricky to disconnect It’s hard to lose weight and stay healthy if you don’t keep track of your physical condition on a daily basis, which is why it’s a good idea to invest in a fitness tracker, such as the Fitbit Inspire 3. The Inspire 3 is one of the smaller, lighter, and less expensive products in Fitbit’s lineup , and the question is whether or not it can offer everything you need in a fitness tracker despite its minimalist design.
Design and comfort Battery life Display Performance and features App and premium subscription Price and availability The Fitbit Inspire 3 is my new favorite fitness tracker Design and comfort Andy Zahn / Digital Trends The first thing I noticed about the Inspire 3 was how lightweight it is, and the second thing was how its small size and weight make it much more comfortable than any other smartwatch I’ve ever used. I really liked the Fitbit Charge 4 I used to wear, but I’m easily irritated by watches and frequently took it off. With the Inspire 3, I often forget it’s even there, and I rarely feel the need to remove it.
The Inspire 3 comes with both a long and a short band, both made of a soft rubbery material. I have abnormally large wrists, but the longer of the two included bands fit with two extra notches to spare.
Andy Zahn / Digital Trends Unfortunately, the optional stainless steel band that Fitbit sells is one size fits most, which in this case didn’t mean me. I’m a big fan of the feel of the default rubberized band, which is available in Midnight Zen, Lilac Bliss, and Morning Glow.
Battery life After a full week of constant use, the Inspire 3 was only down to 40% of battery life, even though I was impatient and only initially charged it to 90%. Extrapolating based on the amount of battery drained over a week’s time, and depending on usage, the Inspire 3 offers roughly two weeks of use before it needs to be recharged. That’s excellent, considering that Fitbit advertises the Inspire 3 as having a 10-day battery life.
Display Andy Zahn / Digital Trends The new AMOLED display of the Inspire 3 is gorgeous, offering vivid colors and deep blacks. It’s also bright enough to see in harsh sunlight. The actual surface area of the display only takes up a small portion of the watch face, with large bezels on each side, but it’s perfectly adequate, and I never felt like it was too small.
Performance and features Andy Zahn / Digital Trends Pinching the Inspire 3 to wake it up works reliably with good force feedback, and motion activation is similarly reliable. The touchscreen is responsive and easy to navigate despite its small size.
The actual fitness tracking accuracy of the Inspire 3 is really impressive. I was able to walk along and watch the step counter log every step perfectly, and the heart rate sensor seems more precise than those found in other trackers I’ve used. When I wore the device while ziplining, I was able to see exactly where my heart rate spiked while riding the lines.
Sleep tracking is similarly improved over my previous experience with other fitness trackers.
The fitness tracking accuracy of the Inspire 3 is really impressive.
My only real complaints with the Inspire 3 are that it can be a bit difficult to detach from its charging cradle, and that the device lacks an altimeter. However, these issues are fairly minor.
I really liked the relaxation mode on the Inspire 3, where it guides you through a few minutes of slow, measured breathing. With this feature, I was able to reduce my heart rate from 76 beats per minute to 70. Using the exercise mode to track a specific activity is also useful, as are the alarm and time functions built into the wearable. I also like the “find my phone” feature, which sounds an alarm on your phone if it’s connected to the Inspire 3, enabling you to locate it more easily.
App and premium subscription Andy Zahn / Digital Trends The Fitbit app is an important part of the package, and it’s as good as ever. I credit using the app in conjunction with the Charge 4 for helping me lose a lot of weight in 2020, and it works just as well with the Inspire 3. My strategy is to use the data generated by the Fitbit to help me judge and regulate my intake of food and water. This way, I can figure out how much I can consume without exceeding my caloric expenditure every day and be more aware of the nutrients I’m taking in.
Having many excellent graphical representations available in the app to gauge my health and fitness progress is extremely helpful. I find that the more conscious of my health I am, the more encouraged I will be to pursue and maintain a healthy lifestyle.
The free version of the app is great, but if you spring for the $10 -per-month (or $80=per-year) premium subscription , you get a wealth of extra fitness analytics and content. This includes advanced sleep analytics, wellness reports, and mindfulness sessions, as well as games, recipes, and video workouts.
Price and availability The Inspire 3 is available today for $100, which seems like a bargain considering the quality and features of the device. There are few compromises in its design that would not have also been necessitated by its diminutive size.
The Fitbit Inspire 3 is my new favorite fitness tracker Andy Zahn / Digital Trends Perhaps the best praise I can give the Fitbit Inspire 3 is that it’s a fitness tracker and smartwatch I will actually wear and use. It achieves what no other watch (smart or otherwise) has been able to offer me, which is 24/7 comfort. Add on to that the excellent battery life and all the fitness metrics and functionality I need, and the Inspire 3 is just about perfect for me. It’s a simple device, but sometimes simple is better.
Editors' Recommendations The future of Fitbit doesn’t look good The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid The best fitness trackers in 2023: 12 best ones you can buy Best Prime Day Fitbit Deals for October 2022 Fitbit Versa 4 vs. Fitbit Sense 2: Which new Fitbit wins? Fitbit Fitness Tracker Reviews Health & Fitness Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Fitbit's lineup of smartwatches and fitness trackers is getting larger just in time for the holiday season, with the company announcing the Fitbit Versa 4, Fitbit Sense 2, and Fitbit Inspire 3. The Versa and Sense continue Fitbit's smartwatch focus, while the Inspire remains one of the go-to choices for anyone who wants to eschew too many smart features for a sleeker design and smaller price. And they're likely to be among the best Fitbit wearables you can buy this year.
Right off the bat, none of these wearables are significant new additions to Fitbit's portfolio. They're all very similar to their predecessors, but with a few minor tweaks here and there to make them better than before. And, no, none of the new smartwatches are running Wear OS. Fitbit has made some intriguing hardware and software upgrades across the board, but this latest launch is clearly focused on evolution rather than revolution.
Fitbit Versa 4 Mobile Fitbit has a busy slate of fitness wearables lined up for debut, but they have all been unceremoniously leaked, giving us a clear look at their design and color options. Tipster @OnLeaks (via 91Mobiles) has shared official-looking product renders of the Fitbit Versa 4 and the Sense 2 smartwatches. Tagging along the premium smartwatches is the Fitbit Inspire 3 fitness band.
The report doesn’t discuss a tentative launch date, but it likely isn’t too far off. The current-gen Fitbit wearables in the Versa, Sense, and Inspire lineup broke cover in August last year. If Fitbit aims to stick with a yearly refresh cycle — and given the opportune time of the latest leaks — the Sense 2, Versa 4, and Inspire 4 should be hitting the shelves in the coming weeks.
Mobile Fitbit has been helping people track their sleep information for over ten years. Now, the company's latest Fitbit Premium feature, Sleep Profile, will provide personalized data to improve sleep quality across the board. Previously, Fitbits were able to track nightly patterns such as sleep duration, restfulness, and REM sleep. While that information can be helpful for understanding a person's sleeping habits, Sleep Profile will up the ante by tracking even more data points and, perhaps more importantly, will help users understand how to interpret the data.
In addition to sleep duration, restfulness, and REM sleep, your Fitbit can now track sleep schedule variability, your time before sound sleep, and disrupted sleep. Users will have access to the individual data points after each night but won't receive any interpretation of the information until the end of each month. Sleep Profile will then analyze the data, compare it to other users, and give a full report on your sleep patterns.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
