Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features You shouldn’t need an accountant to buy a new fitness tracker By Andy Boxall Close It was once a case of just buying a fitness tracker , strapping it on your wrist, and going about your business. You paid one price, and that was that. Unfortunately, this familiar, clear, and simple buying process is disappearing, and being replaced by one that’s far more complicated. No longer is it enough to pay once for your new piece of tech; the new way is to pay again and again to track your health.
Understanding the subscriptions Get your calculator out Think long-term Never has it been so important to fully understand what your desired piece of wearable technology actually costs, because the price on the shelf isn’t necessarily the end of your spend anymore.
Understanding the subscriptions Oura Ring Horizon Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Health and fitness trackers are slowly but surely moving to a subscription-based model , similar to the ones operated by Netflix and Disney+. The goal is to lock you in as a long-term customer who has to pay every month for the pleasure of seeing the insights created from your data. That’s another subscription to add to an ever-growing list, which includes not only streaming music and movie services, but weather apps, photo-editing software, creator platforms like Patreon, and even specialist chat apps.
The thing is, you usually know exactly what you’re getting into with one of these services. The monthly costs are pretty clear, there are often multiple choices to suit different budgets and needs, and very few have any kind of upfront payment because there’s no special hardware involved. If you cancel, then you lose access to the platform or service, as expected.
With a wearable that has a subscription attached to it, you most often pay upfront for the device itself first and, after a free-trial period, pay a subscription to continue accessing the app and its data, either partially or completely. If you stop paying, the functionality will be impacted. This could mean either missing out on some features and making the device less worthwhile or — in the most extreme cases — the hardware becoming completely useless.
You usually know exactly what you’re getting into with one of these services.
Unlike Netflix, health-focused subscriptions require a great deal more thought before committing. Remember, the only way you benefit from a health and fitness wearable is if you wear it. If you’re not sure you’re always going to do this, which is completely normal, then it’s imperative to understand how much you’re really going to end up paying for it. This will take effort, as it’s not always very obvious at all.
Get your calculator out Google Pixel Watch Andy Boxall/Digital Trends You’ve got your eye on a Pixel Watch , and accept it’ll cost $350 to get it on your wrist. It uses Fitbit as its health-tracking platform, and after six months of using it, you’ll either have to pay for Fitbit Premium or lose certain features — including in-depth sleep tracking.
 Fitbit Premium costs $10 per month, and this subscription also applies to every Fitbit smartwatch and fitness band.
Perhaps you fancy the Oura Ring instead? It starts at $300, but after six months, you’ll have to pay $6 per month to access almost all the features in the app. Maybe the cheap $80 Amazon Halo View has caught your eye; just be aware that price is really just for a year of ownership — if you want all the features in year two, it’ll cost you $4 per month. Mobvoi’s TicWatch smartwatches have a $5 monthly subscription for advanced sleep tracking, Withings’ smart scales have the Health+ platform for $80 per year, and you could even put Peloton’s essential and expensive monthly plan in all this too.
Whoop 4.0 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Then there’s the Whoop 4.0.
 The hardware is technically free, but you must pay a monthly or yearly subscription to access the app. There are multiple options, representing different levels of value depending on how long you’re prepared to commit, or how much you’re happy to pay upfront. These few examples are just the start, as there are many other less common fitness wearables that also have subscription systems attached.
The thing is, none of it is simple. When buying any of these products, you have to be acutely aware of how long you get to enjoy all the features for free, and what features you’ll lose if you decide not to pay. The fact you have to pay is never a secret, but it takes time and effort to understand exactly what you’ll eventually miss out on if you don’t pay the subscription, and you often won’t really know how helpful or important these features are to you until you start using the product. Subscriptions do nothing but complicate things.
Think long-term Apple Watch Series 8 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Think of it like this. You pay $400 for an Apple Watch Series 8 , and whether you wear it for two months or two years, you’ll have only ever paid $400. This is not the case with a subscription-based fitness tracker. The Fitbit Luxe costs $130, but if you want Fitbit Premium on day one and day 730, the actual cost will be more like $270. It’s even more expensive and more complicated with the Whoop 4.0. When I reviewed the Whoop recently, I felt the need to create a chart to show how much ownership would cost over two years.
Many of us see a fitness tracker as a tool to encourage ourselves to be more active, but even with the best will in the world, it doesn’t always happen. The wearable can easily find itself out of battery and abandoned. This unfortunate situation is bearable after a one-off payment, but far less so when there’s a monthly charge attached. Maybe it’s more motivational when you’re continually paying, but to me, this is the same self-deception as thinking that joining a gym and paying the monthly subscription will be motivational. After all, we all know how that usually goes.
When I reviewed the Whoop recently, I felt the need to create a chart to show how much ownership would cost over two years.
The influx of subscriptions for fitness wearables means you have to be wiser and more informed than ever about the final cost of a product, and not just the price of entry, while staying realistic about what you expect to get out of it long-term. If at any point you’re not sure about your commitment, or about your willingness to continue paying to learn from the valuable data you provide in the first place, then look elsewhere.
Apple, Samsung , Garmin, Polar, and various others all provide their excellent health and fitness services for free , and have superb hardware to go along with them too.
Editors' Recommendations The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid A new Android 14 update is here — but you still shouldn’t download it You shouldn’t buy the Galaxy S23 Ultra — and that’s the best thing about it I ditched my smartwatch for a fitness tracker, and I couldn’t be happier Why fitness tracker subscriptions are a rip-off (and how to avoid them) Amazon Features Fitbit Health & Fitness Wearables Wearables If you're looking for a great fitness tracker to keep tabs on your general health, then the Apple Watch and line of Fitbits are probably the best way to go. Not everyone, however, wants to spend a lot of cash on a fitness device -- and thankfully, for those people there are some great alternatives. If you're in the market for a Fitbit or smartwatch alternative on a budget, then check out these fitness trackers under $100. With budget options from Garmin and Amazfit, efficient activity tracking doesn't need to be overly expensive.
Garmin Forerunner 35 -- $100 Looking for a high-quality fitness tracker and don't mind hitting that $100 limit? The Garmin Forerunner 35 might be the smartwatch for you. The device looks much like any other smartwatch, plus it offers a GPD tracker, and a heart rate monitor that can monitor your heart rate 24/7. The device is great for more than just running, too -- it's got a 5 ATM water-resistance rating, meaning that it should be able to withstand depths of up to 50 meters. The Garmin Forerunner 35 is compatible with both Android and iOS smartphones, and can show notifications, control music, and more.
Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
