Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Garmin Forerunner 955 review: 7 weeks and 200 miles of testing By Andrew Martonik Close $599.00 Incredible battery life Consistently accurate GPS tracking Touch screen and 5-button navigation Easy-to-read screen in all conditions Great fitness and health features Solar version is overkill for most runners Core features identical to lower Forerunners Standing in the starting corrals of any running race, you’ll see a wide variety of gear. Dozens of brands of shoes, shorts, sunglasses, and hats. Over thousands of miles running, each person finds the unique setup that works best for them. But when you focus on people’s wrists, one name dominates: Garmin.
 It isn’t a fashion statement or fad; Garmin has a well-earned reputation as the best smartwatch for runners, providing the features, design, and reliable performance we require. It’s constantly reinforced for me: The more serious the race, the more Garmins you see.
Testing over weeks and miles The Garmin Forerunner basics Display Touchscreen and buttons Design, size, and comfort Battery life GPS tracking accuracy Our take For the past two years, I’ve been running exclusively with a Forerunner 245 Music — an affordable, but not completely budget, Garmin model available for about $275. Now I’m fortunate to be using Garmin’s latest, highest-end Forerunner: the 955 Solar. At $600, it’s immediately clear this isn’t for the casual runner tracking morning jogs. And frankly, given all of its capabilities, it’s overkill for most people, unless you plan on getting into triathlons or ultramarathons. It’s also notably more expensive than all but the stainless steel-cased Apple Watch Series 7.
Garmin’s newest smartwatches steal one of the Apple Watch’s best features Garmin Forerunner 955 smartwatch accidentally leaks Garmin’s five new Forerunner watches have something for every runner Here’s everything it has to offer, and my recommendations for runners who are eyeing Garmin’s latest and greatest.
Testing over weeks and miles Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends I’ve now logged 200 miles running with the Forerunner 955 Solar on my wrist, in addition to plenty of walks, bike rides, and rounds of golf, all across over seven weeks. When I’m not running, I’ve been wearing it as a daily smartwatch paired to my iPhone.
I’m on track to run over 1,000 miles in 2022. I have already run three half marathons this year, and this watch arrived at a perfect time to get me moving on my fall marathon training cycle. (Huge thanks to Nike for inviting me to join its NYC group training for Chicago!). I’m used to wearing my previous Forerunner, and picky about what a running watch offers. I also have a lovely assistant on this review, my girlfriend, who has been running with this watch’s predecessor, the Forerunner 945 — so I tapped her expertise for finer points of comparison between the two closely related models.
The Garmin Forerunner basics Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Let’s quickly get through the basics, because I really don’t need to get into every little detail. You likely won’t get the Forerunner 955 as your first running watch, or your first Garmin. Chances are you have a Garmin already and you know what you’re getting into here.
This is Garmin’s top-end Forerunner model, which — as the name suggests — targets avid runners. At $600, it’s topped only by some of Garmin’s Fenix and Enduro multisport watches, and specialist models for divers and pilots. This is, in many respects, top of the line.
For that money, you’re getting a large watch with just about everything Garmin has to offer. A big 1.3-inch always-on color touchscreen, every GPS tracking mode and sensor you could ever want (and more you didn’t know existed), waterproofing, a rugged exterior, a massive 32GB of storage, a huge battery, and solar charging capabilities.
If you take running seriously, you wear a Garmin.
Garmin’s smartwatches pair to an iPhone or Android with the Garmin Connect app , bringing you a whole suite of fitness and wellness functions for no additional subscription. You can track absolutely everything about your training, performance, body condition, recovery, and general health stats with this watch. And Garmin does its best to turn that data into actionable insights for you — whether you’re casually scrolling through the main feed, or diving deep into the analytics.
That focus on activity tracking doesn’t leave much room for anything else. There are other apps you can install and run on the Forerunner series, but they’re very utilitarian in nature. It’s likely that everything you’d like to do with a Garmin is pre-loaded on the watch, and integrated very well at that. A series of home screen panels covers everything you need to know about your health and fitness, and you get small things on top like alarms, timers, the weather, and notifications from your phone.
Display Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends The 1.3-inch display is slightly larger than the Forerunner 945’s 1.2-inch, despite the case actually being slightly narrower. The resolution has bumped up as well, to 260 x 260 pixels, though that simply leaves you with the same pixels per inch as the old model. The screen is improved, though. Side by side with the 945, you can see the blacks are much deeper, and the backlighting is noticeably better.
I fully expected the display to be much better than my Forerunner 245, but I didn’t expect that the difference would be this dramatic. The larger screen, paired with the higher resolution and improved clarity, just makes the 955 Solar a joy to use. It’s easy to see everything on the display at a glance while running, even in direct sunlight and at an angle. That’s a differentiator for all Garmin watches when compared to an Apple Watch or Galaxy Watch , but it’s in top form on the 955.
You don’t want glare — or a touchscreen — to think about while running.
The display’s quality is particularly noticeable when viewing more intricate and colorful content on the main home screens, as well as when navigating a mapped route during a run. Sure, it’s not delivering OLED display levels of clarity … but those displays also bring huge compromises in battery life and glare.
You get Gorilla Glass DX glass over the screen, not a synthetic sapphire. Perhaps that’s disappointing at this price, but I wouldn’t count out Garmin making the decision based on the shatter resistance of the materials. I make zero effort to protect this watch, so unsurprisingly, I have a couple of faint scratches on the glass. They’re only viewable at certain angles, and I can’t feel them with a fingernail, so it’s hard to complain.
Touchscreen and buttons This generation also added touch capability to the screen — something available on other Garmins, but not the Forerunner 945. Critically that doesn’t come at the expense of physical buttons. You can still navigate the entire interface with the traditional Garmin 5-button layout, and the touch screen is disabled by default when tracking activities. If you aren’t a runner, this may not make sense to you — but trust me, you do not want a touchscreen when running. Accidentally having rain, drips of sweat, or a brush with your shirt pause or lap your run without you knowing really stinks.
The Garmin interface is so simple and easy to manage with the 5-button system that I often went days forgetting that it even had a touchscreen. It’s only useful when you’re scrolling through notifications or lists of settings, and when you do use it it’s smooth and responsive. So sure, it’s nice to have, but Garmin could’ve removed this feature and likely not lost any customers. I suspect it’s mostly there to help placate folks who are on the fence coming over from touchscreen watches and see the 5-button layout as antiquated. (They’ll be converted to the buttons in short order, though.) Design, size, and comfort Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Garmin Forerunners certainly have a unique design. They aren’t trying to be particularly svelte or sleek; they’re utilitarian and purposeful. The 955 Solar’s chunky plastic body has a few smooth curves and fashionable cuts on the side, but otherwise simply takes up as much space as it needs to in order to fit the myriad components inside.
Andrew Martonik / DIgital Trends / Digital Trends There is one nice design flourish on the front, the reflective solar ring around the screen, which gives an interesting sheen and colorful pop depending on the lighting. It’s also a bit of an “if you know, you know” nod to other Garmin wearers you see out on the street, showing off that you have a high-end version.
For its size, the Forerunner 955 Solar is light and comfortable on my wrist — for daily wear, long runs, and even sleeping. But on my girlfriend’s smaller wrist, it looks a bit comical. You’ll really want to try this one on before buying if you’re petite, and maybe consider a 700-series model instead.
The band is particularly light and breathable, as is the case with every Garmin I’ve worn, but the trade-off is that the whole package can feel a bit cheap. I know it’s sturdy, and weight reduction is paramount, but if you’re comparing this to more fashion-focused metal smartwatches, you’ll be disappointed.
Battery life One of the key reasons Garmin purists are so reluctant to switch off of the platform for something fancy like an Apple Watch is the battery longevity, and the 955 delivers here. Garmin claims a remarkable 20 days of battery life in simple smartwatch mode connected to your phone, plus a very impressive 42 to 49 hours of usage in GPS mode.
That’s 5 more days in smartwatch mode and 7 more hours in GPS tracking mode than even the non-Solar 955.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That solar-boosted battery life, according to Garmin , is based on the watch spending a considerable amount of time out in considerable amounts of sunlight. The “20 days” measurement requires 3 hours per day outdoors in 50,000 lux sunlight, and the additional 7 hours of use in GPS mode requires continuous exposure to that same 50,000 lux. If you don’t know lux measurements by memory (I sure don’t), 50,000 lux is equivalent to a moderately sunny day at high noon or a clear day in the morning or afternoon. Garmin users probably spend more hours per week outside than the average adult, though, so I wouldn’t be surprised if the most active among us would get value out of the Solar model.
My old Forerunner 245 quotes just 7 days of smartwatch usage or 6 straight hours of GPS tracking. It is, after all, a much less expensive watch with a much smaller case and battery. Switching over, I’ve been floored by the battery life on the 955 Solar. The added longevity is perhaps the most noteworthy advantage of this model over lesser Forerunner offerings.
You can easily use this for two weeks without charging, even with many runs.
With the 955 Solar, you can easily make it a full two weeks without charging, even if you’re going on multiple multi-hour runs per week. And that’s enticing. Not worrying about charging even when I’m heading out for a long run with just 10% battery left is refreshing. My experience testing for the better part of two months has met or beat Garmin’s estimates above; I typically saw around 2% battery usage per hour of multi-band GPS tracking.
It is worth noting that the standard Forerunner 955 without solar will likely still be way above most people’s expectations, and serve all but the most extreme ultramarathoner’s needs for tracking. I’m also keenly aware of how quickly Garmins recharge; it’s even less of a pain when you’re only topping it off once every several days. If I were buying for myself, I’d skip the $100 solar up-charge.
GPS tracking accuracy This is why we’re all wearing Garmins for running: GPS tracking accuracy. Running a majority of my miles in densely packed New York City, I’ve seen some seriously wonky stuff happen with wrist-bound GPS tracking, mostly with my Apple Watch but even at times with my Forerunner 245. The 955 has consistently outperformed my 245 in the time it takes to lock GPS before starting an activity, and the consistency with which it’s able to track pace even when running along city streets and between tall buildings.
Compared to my Forerunner 245, and even the Forerunner 945, the 955 comes with additional GPS tracking modes. You can choose to use the “All + Multi-Band” mode to leverage all possible GPS constellations together. Even leaving my watch in the default “smart” tracking mode rather than the more battery-intense “every second” plotting, my 955 stayed dead on next to the 945 using its most accurate and battery-intensive tracking settings.
I only had a single instance where the GPS struggled to lock on, and it was unsurprisingly the one time I decided to be impatient and start a run before the watch indicated it had a complete lock. When I waited for a GPS lock (every other run, of course), I was tracking perfectly every time.
Our take The Garmin Forerunner 955 Solar is an outstanding runner’s watch that exceeded my expectations. Unless you run — and run a lot — you won’t understand why you’d spend $600 on such a utilitarian smartwatch with few of the modern smartwatch bells and whistles. But anyone who’s making it to the bottom of this review will get it, and at that point, you’ll likely be seriously considering buying one for yourself.
My only recommendation against the Garmin Forerunner 955 Solar is that whole solar part. The existence of the non-solar model for a full $100 less , with still-great battery life and all of the same features, makes it tough to recommend that higher-end model for anyone but the most dedicated long-distance runners. The battery life will still be excellent, and Garmins charge very quickly.
If you have a lower-end (or older) Forerunner and you’re looking to upgrade as you take running more seriously, you’ll love the 955 Solar’s bigger screen, absurdly great battery life, and precise tracking paired with the software and interface you already know. If you’re just coming to the Forerunner lineup from something like an Apple Watch, Galaxy Watch, or Wear OS watch, chances are this is overkill — start out with something simpler, like the Forerunner 245 , and see if this is a trade-off you’re willing to make.
I won’t be going back to my Forerunner 245, that’s for sure. The screen, battery life, and GPS accuracy on the 955 Solar have opened my eyes to the value of getting the top-end Garmin model.
Editors' Recommendations Garmin’s Instinct 2X Solar smartwatch never needs charging The best Garmin watches of 2022 The Garmin Forerunner 745 offers improved tracking and a sleek design for $500 Garmin Forerunner 45 vs 35: Is the striking new style enough reason to upgrade? Garmin Forerunner 945 vs. 935: Running watch gets more power, but is it worth it? Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Wearables Forerunner 235 (L) with new Forerunner 245 (R) Image used with permission by copyright holder Garmin refreshed its Forerunner lineup, introducing five new fitness smartwatches. Among the new watches is the Forerunner 245, an upgrade to the popular Forerunner 235. The Forerunner 245 hits the same niche as its predecessor -- the runner who wants a solid fitness watch that'll keep up with their training but doesn't overload them with the data they don't need. So what is new in the Forerunner 245 that makes it such a great training companion? We break down the good and the bad so you can decide if the new Forerunner 245 is the right Garmin for you.
What's New On the outside, the Forerunner 245 is slightly smaller (42.3 x 42.3 x 12.2mm) than the Forerunner 235 (45 x 45 x 11.7 mm) and has a polished appearance. It is similar in size and appearance to the Forerunner 645 (42.5 x 42.5 x 13.5 mm) but has a black bezel instead of stainless steel. The Forerunner 245 still has a sunlight-readable color display and five buttons for navigating the menu system. The interface for the watch also has the same look and feel as other current generation Garmin watches. Unlike the smooth band of the Forerunner 235, the band on the Forerunner 245 now is soft on the inside and textured on the outside. It has the same quick release system as the Forerunner 645 which allows you to easily swap between different compatible watch straps.
Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
