Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Garmin Vivomove Trend review: a cool smartwatch with a hidden secret By Andy Boxall Close $270.00 Hybrid, fashionable design Hidden screen is clear and sharp Comprehensive health platform No ongoing subscription fee Wireless charging Reflective screen hinders visibility Slow responsiveness Standard strap isn't very comfortable The Garmin Vivomove Trend is not a typically sporty Garmin smartwatch. Instead, it’s a lifestyle hybrid smartwatch. This means it’s more about matching it to your outfit before heading out for yoga than it is about sweating it up a storm during a triathlon.
Garmin Vivomove Trend: design Garmin Vivomove Trend: screen and controls Garmin Vivomove Trend: Garmin Connect app Garmin Vivomove Trend: workout and sleep tracking Garmin Vivomove Trend: battery and charging Garmin Vivomove Trend: price and availability Garmin Vivomove Trend: verdict Take a look at Garmin’s promotional images for proof , as the models have perfectly manicured nails, are holding coffee, or wearing a suit. In our review, we find out if this means it has lost any of the impressive sporting ability we associate with Garmin products, or if it does everything you could want with an under-the-radar design.
Garmin’s Instinct 2X Solar smartwatch never needs charging The Garmin Vivomove Trend is a powerful smartwatch with a sleek disguise Luxury Garmin Marq smartwatches are even more focused than the Apple Watch Ultra Garmin Vivomove Trend: design Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Garmin has got the unisex design, the case size, and the weight exactly right. The Vivomove Trend will suit most people, and most wrist sizes too. The 40mm case is made from fiber-reinforced polymer (posh name aside, it feels like plastic) with a stainless steel bezel and strengthened glass over the dial — for a total weight of 43 grams. This is a hybrid smartwatch, so it has real watch hands set over a cleverly disguised LCD screen that you won’t know is there until it lights up.
My review model is in Mist Grey with a silver bezel, but I was surprised to find the handset and the indices are in gold, which isn’t immediately obvious from some of the photos. It doesn’t look bad, but it does make the Trend quite dainty and makes more of a statement than is necessary. That said, I think it looks fine on my 6.5-inch wrist, and have had compliments about its style. You can get the Trend in two different shades of gold, or in a simple black too.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The LCD screen takes up the entire dial, unlike the small OLED screen on last year’s Vivomove Sport.
 When it’s off, it takes on a partial sunburst-like look, giving the face a very watch-like design. From a distance, it could easily be mistaken for a traditional fashion watch from a brand such as Swatch. I like the way the Garmin logo and six indices give the dial depth, without taking away from its minimalist design.
I’m less taken by the silicone band. It has very little give in it, and its stiffness makes it a little uncomfortable to wear overnight. I’m constantly aware of it being on my wrist, which I find distracting. It’s a standard 20mm band with quick-release pins, so it’s easy to change if you feel the same, but this does not happen with the Sport Band or Sport Loop on the Apple Watch Series 8 , for example.
Garmin Vivomove Trend: screen and controls Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The 1-inch screen has a 254 by 346-pixel resolution, and shows up in a single “color,” so don’t expect it to take on the Apple Watch or the Samsung Galaxy Watch 5.
 It’s clear and sharp, so text is easy to read, which is helped by the way the hands rapidly move aside so information is never obscured. There are no physical buttons on the case (more evidence this is not a smartwatch for seriously sporty people), and you control the watch’s interface through taps and swipes on the glass.
A single tap shows your chosen watch face, a longer press shows the main menu, and swipes show current health and activity data. It’s responsive, and you can change the sensitivity if it’s not responsive enough, but it can take a while to get used to the controls. When a notification arrives you can tap it to show more, and you can recall recent messages with a downward swipe on the dial. It’s surprisingly comprehensive, even connected to an iPhone.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Vivomove Trend has an automatic brightness level, which I’ve used during my review period, and although it’s accurate, it does take a moment to adjust. The screen is very reflective, and the screen needs a boost to see any information in bright conditions, meaning that beat before the screen increases in brightness can be frustrating. You can manually set the brightness to a permanently higher level, but this will drain the battery faster.
The lack of physical controls makes interacting with the watch more difficult during exercise. The touch-sensitive glass requires more precision than a button, and it doesn’t work if you’re wearing gloves. Like the design, the control system suits someone who casually exercises.
Garmin Vivomove Trend: Garmin Connect app Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Just because the Vivomove Trend’s design and controls aren’t suited to hardcore athletes, that doesn’t mean it’s lacking in the health tracking department. There’s a heart rate sensor on the back, it measures your blood oxygen levels and examines stress and respiration too. You can wear it overnight to track sleep, and there are features to manually track menstrual cycles, hydration, and mindfulness sessions.
The Vivomove Trend connects to the Garmin Connect app on your phone, where you see all relevant data and Garmin’s clever Body Battery metric. It makes use of the GPS on your phone, and there are various activities to track (including swimming), plus it has automatic workout recognition. There are masses of ability here. I’ve used it with an iPhone 14 Pro , and it has been completely reliable and was very simple to set up.
Best of all, Garmin’s entire platform is all yours, forever, without suddenly needing to pay a monthly subscription.
The app is fairly well designed, although there is a lot of information presented on the main My Day page, all in one long, scrollable list. It can be overwhelming at first. The focus is on your heart rate, steps, and daily calorie burn, but scroll further down to see a lot more detail, including your sleep patterns and workouts.
Garmin’s Body Battery is very interesting, as it estimates your daily readiness and the amount of energy you either have for the day — or that you’ve expended. This gives a handy, glanceable metric on how you should spend your day, either actively or taking a break.
There’s no specific, motivational tool like Apple’s Ring system. The Body Battery provides a different kind of motivation, allowing you to be the judge of how to make the most of the day. Dig deeper into the app, and there are training and planning sections, a lot of historical data, the ability to create a personal activity should it not be listed in the app, and safety systems that alert emergency contacts if you need assistance. Best of all, Garmin’s entire platform is all yours, forever, without suddenly needing to pay a monthly subscription to continue using all the features.
Garmin Vivomove Trend: workout and sleep tracking Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Garmin Vivomove Trend may not look the same as a Garmin Forerunner 955 or have quite the same technical ability, but the app provides all the same features, so there’s room for growth over time. I’ve found the tracking system to provide similar results to the Apple Watch Ultra during exercise. As neither are medical devices, one is not necessarily more accurate than the other, but the general agreement between them is reassuring.
It’s a comfortable, simple-to-use tracker. Tap the screen twice to enter the main menu, then select Workout , and your chosen activity. It’s a double tap to start and stop the tracking. During a workout, you have to wake up and swipe the screen to see your current metrics, which are restricted to your time elapsed and heart rate. This is a little awkward, hence recommending this more for casual use. The Connect app sends you a notification once a workout has been saved, which encourages you to look at your data after the workout, instead of during. Runners who want more immediate details should look at an alternative such as Garmin’s Forerunner series, or an Apple Watch.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The relatively unforgiving strap made wearing the Vivomove Trend a little uncomfortable at night, but the app does provide comprehensive details, so it’s worth persevering. It breaks your sleep down into stages, plus it shows blood oxygen levels, resting heart rate, and respiration.
The results did differ somewhat from the Oura Ring , usually around the amount of time spent in REM sleep or awake. Both have very different ways of presenting data but usually agreed on the total time spent “asleep” or, at least, in bed. The discrepancies may come from not wearing the smartwatch tight enough against my wrist, a consequence of the uncomfortable strap.
Garmin Vivomove Trend: battery and charging Andy Boxall/Digital Trends You can use a Qi wireless charger to charge the battery in the Vivomove Trend, in addition to the bundled proprietary connector. How useful you find this will depend on how you charge your phone or other devices. If you already use wireless chargers, it’s convenient, provided you have more than one. If you don’t or don’t use wireless charging much, then it won’t change your life.
The proprietary charger securely clips onto the side of the watch, and it takes more than an hour to charge the battery. The Qi wireless charging compatibility means if you lose the charging clip you won’t necessarily have to buy another, and that’s a considerable benefit. While it hasn’t transformed my life with the Vivomove Trend, the addition of Qi wireless charging is a sensible step forward.
The Vivomove Trend’s proprietary charger Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The battery lasts approximately five days with all health tracking features active, a couple of hour-long workouts without GPS tracking, and sleep tracked too.
Remove any of these, and the battery will last a little longer. This is in line with Garmin’s estimates and is longer than the Apple Watch Series 8 and the Samsung Galaxy Watch 5, but both these have full-color, always-on touchscreens.
Garmin Vivomove Trend: price and availability Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Garmin Vivomove Trend starts at $270 for the black or Mist Grey version, while the Peach Gold and Cream Gold versions cost $300. Oddly, in the U.K., all the Vivomove Trend models cost 280 British pounds.
This is quite a lot more expensive than the $180 Vivomove Sport released at the beginning of 2022, which really impressed with its combination of a small hidden screen, reasonable cost, and fully featured app. The Vivomove Trend has a larger screen, wireless charging, a stainless steel bezel, and Garmin’s mobile payment platform called Garmin Pay.
It’s also comparable in price to the $250 Apple Watch SE 2 and the $280 Galaxy Watch 5 , depending on your choice of size and band. Both these are full touchscreen watches and are technically more capable than the Vivomove Trend, but not as watch-like in their designs.
Garmin Vivomove Trend: verdict Andy Boxall/Digital Trends If you want a smartwatch that doesn’t look like a smartwatch and isn’t specifically designed for the incredibly sporty — but aren’t prepared to compromise on overall ability and still want an expertly designed app — the Garmin Vivomove Trend will suit you. It’s not really a competitor to the Apple Watch or Galaxy Watch 5, which remain the best smartwatches you can buy. Instead, it’s ideal if you consider these two a bit “too much,” and put fashionable style above luxury materials or endless feature lists.
The Vivomove Trend is reliable and convenient to live with on a daily basis, the app is comprehensive and informative, yet it never bothers you with needy reminders or annoying promotions. If you’re not overly sporty, neither the app nor watch ever push you hard, and instead, leave it mostly down to your own judgment, motivation, and intention as to how much you exercise or improve on your goals. However, all the capability you could want is still there, and all the while, the unobtrusive, cool design looks good on your wrist with most outfits, and in most situations.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Understanding this is where the Vivomove Trend’s strengths lie is crucial to knowing if it’s for you. If you want lots of motivation, physical buttons, a detailed always-on screen when exercising, built-in GPS or cellular connectivity, and a construction that will handle a weekend’s tough mudding, it’s not really the right choice. Take a look at the Apple Watch Ultra, the Garmin Forerunner 265 , or the Galaxy Watch 5 Pro instead. Runners should also look at the $300 Polar Pacer Pro.
 One last thing, if you like the look and the concept behind the Vivomove Trend, and don’t care about wireless charging or Garmin Pay, the Vivomove Sport seems to still be available and is a lot cheaper.
Provided your lifestyle and exercise demands align with the Vivomove Trend’s features and design, then it’s a recommended buy. You get all the Garmin platform’s subscription-free goodness inside a very pretty hybrid smartwatch.
Editors' Recommendations Garmin’s newest smartwatch could replace your Apple Watch Garmin’s newest smartwatches steal one of the Apple Watch’s best features You can finally take ECGs and track AFib on a Garmin smartwatch Garmin swoops in with the pilot-focused D2 Mach 1 smartwatch Garmin Forerunner 955 smartwatch accidentally leaks Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Garmin has started the year with a bang with the launch of the Garmin Venu 2 Plus and the Garmin Vivomove Sport at CES 2022. The Venu 2 Plus will be priced at $450, with the Vivomove Sport available for $180.The Venu 2 Plus is a part of the existing Venu 2 smartwatch series. It is currently available in three colors -- a silver-colored bezel with a powder gray case, a slate-stained bezel with a black case, and a cream gold bezel with a pure ivory color case. It has a 1.3-inch AMOLED display with 416×416 pixel resolution. The always-on-display would be an additional feature, apart from Corning Gorilla Glass 3 for protection.
A close-up look of the Garmin Vivomove Sport's dial. Andy Boxall/Digital Trends What separates the Venu 2 Plus from the Venu 2 series is its ability to take voice calls and the voice assistant feature that uses a built-in speaker and microphone. All of the fitness-tracking features from the Venu 2 series are present in its Plus model, including multiple outdoor workout modes. A single charge on the Venu 2 Plus helps it last for eight or nine days in GPS + Music mode. Its rapid charging feature helps the watch to last for an additional day after just a 10-minute charge. The Vivomove Sport is the latest model in Garmin's hybrid watch series, with the Vivomove Style model being one of its earliest devices during the series launch in September 2019. It is a hybrid smartwatch that comes in four colors. Its 40mm OLED display will be paired with silicone straps. The top half of the watch has an analog design, with the bottom half's touchscreen parameters visible. While you're interacting with the touchscreen, the watch hands move away for a bit to show regular details such as the heart rate, step count, and oxygen saturation levels (SpO2). The Vivomove Sport can track multiple fitness exercises and can be connected to a phone's GPS for tracking. While it cannot receive or place a call, it can receive incoming calls and message alerts. The phone has six days of battery life in analog watch mode, while it runs for a full five days in smartwatch mode.
Mobile Today is a good day to move, according to Garmin, which just announced the launch of the Venu 2 series of GPS smartwatches. There are two options to choose from. the Venu 2S and the Venu 2, both of which are packed with features to help you take full control of your physical health.
The Venu 2 has a battery life up to 11 days in smartwatch mode, although the life span is cut much shorter when it's in GPS mode -- only eight hours for the Venu 2 and seven hours for the Venu 2S. Need a speedy charge? Just 10 minutes will add one full day's charge to the Garmin Venu 2; a full charge will take around four hours. These trackers monitor a wide range of metrics to give you a clear view of your body, including your Sleep Score, Fitness Age, and much more.
Wearables Designer smartwatches, no matter how cool and eye-catching, aren’t for everyone, and sometimes you want to show your inner geek by wearing your fandom on your wrist with pride. If Star Wars is your obsession of choice, then Garmin’s new Legacy Saga Series smartwatches are for you. There are two models available, with special materials, designs, and watch faces influenced by the characters on which they are based.
Which characters? Garmin has a Rey special edition and a Darth Vader special edition. The white Rey smartwatch has a 40mm case size, attached to a white and brown strap made from leather, and a polished steel bezel. The Darth Vader smartwatch comes in a 45mm case size, this time with a black body, a textured bezel, and a black leather strap with red highlights.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
