Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Reviews 2023 BMW XM review: a luxury plug-in with power By Christian de Looper Close $159,000.00 Luxurious interior 30 miles of electric range Powerful performance Spacious Absurd price Polarizing design BMW is trying to push boundaries a little. The company has been working to take new technologies and fuse them with luxury to build cars that feel both powerful and opulent. The BMW i7 was one early product of that effort, and now the BMW XM continues the trend by backing a plug-in powerplant with the serious oomph of a twin-turbo V8.
A slightly gaudy, but high-end design An around-town electric SUV Tech and driver-assist Conclusions Christian de Looper / Digital Trends It may seem like the best of both worlds, but with a price tag starting at $159,000, you’re certainly paying for both. So what do you actually get for that money? I drove the base model of the BMW XM for a week to find out.
2024 Mercedes-AMG S63 E Performance first drive review: high-performance plug-in BMW i4 vs. Tesla Model 3: Which EV sedan is better? Business upfront, 31-inch TV in the back. BMW’s electric i7 is a screening room on wheels A slightly gaudy, but high-end design The first thing you’ll notice about the BMW XM is its design, which has been somewhat polarizing. Some really like the design of the XM, with its split headlights and larger front grille. Others, seriously dislike the look, even though the grille is certainly less over the top here than on other modern BMWs.
 I seem to fall somewhere in the middle — I don’t mind the grille, and while at times it can feel a little gaudy, the car doesn’t look bad in general.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends I do prefer the rear of the XM to the front, though. The slim rear lights look modern and stylish, and the rear overall feels a little more scaled-back compared to the rest of the car.
Of course, the interior is anything but scaled-back, at least in the version I drove. In this case, however, I found that to be a good thing — I really liked the premium red leather interior, accent lighting, and generally high-end materials, even though they could all arguably also be described as gaudy.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Thankfully, there’s tons of space in the XM. You will only get two rows of seats (no 7-seater option available here), but there’s 18.6 cubic feet of space with all the seats in place, or a hefty 64.3 cubic feet with the second row down. Not bad! An around-town electric SUV BMW is targeting big performance with this car, and in 2023, that means making a plug-in hybrid. With an electric motor and battery, the car gets an extra kick if you put the pedal to the metal, but it also means that you can drive the car in battery-only mode — with the combustion engine only taking over when you run out of electric range. The car is considerably slower when you do so, but at least you won’t have to pay for as much gas.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends The XM is rated for around 30 miles of electric-only range, and that means that if you want to use it in electric mode, you’ll probably need to charge it after every outing. I work from home, so my “commute” is zero — but even my wife’s 10-minute commute is 8.3 miles, meaning that round-trip, she’d be using more than half of the battery per day. Alternatively, you could simply use the car in hybrid mode, which will make use of the combustion engine and battery to make for as efficient a hybrid experience as possible.
Despite the battery’s modest 25.7-kilowatt-hour capacity, it still takes around three hours to fully charge it using the included charger. Of course, most of the time you won’t charge it from zero, and if you can get used to charging overnight, the three-hour charge time won’t matter all that much.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Regardless of which mode you’re in, the XM gets up to speed in a hurry. Even the base model offers 644 horsepower, and you’ll feel immediate punch when you hit the accelerator — thanks largely to the combination of the hybrid powertrain. It gets up to 60 mph in 3.8 seconds, rivaling many of the faster EVs out there.
Tech and driver-assist The BMW XM may be built to be a modern driver, but it doesn’t necessarily offer the most modern tech. It’s certainly not dated, but don’t expect the same level of tech as the cutting-edge EVs out there.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends At the core of the tech in the XM is BMW’s iDrive 8.5, which is fine. Legacy carmakers are starting to put more effort into their operating systems, but iDrive is still relatively dated-looking and difficult to navigate.
Thankfully, the car does support wireless CarPlay and Android Auto. While I’ve had some issues with connectivity in BMWs in the past, CarPlay connected immediately and consistently in the XM.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends There are some handy driver-assist features to note too. You’ll get adaptive cruise control and a lane-keeping feature, which have both become standard features in 2023. When combined, however, the car can essentially feel like it’s driving itself on the highway, though not enough to take your attention away from the road. There’s also an emergency braking feature and a lane departure warning.
Conclusions Should you buy the BMW XM? No, probably not.
The car is built to be a little over the top, with high-end features and a luxury feel, but at a starting price of around $160,000, there are better options. If you’re in the market for a modern, tech-forward SUV, consider a full-electric offering like the Rivian R1S.
 If you’re looking for the ultimate luxury SUV, consider the Mercedes-Benz GLS-class. If you really like the XM’s style and don’t mind spending a little (or a lot) more than necessary, then perhaps the BMW XM is for you.
Editors' Recommendations BMW scraps its unpopular approach to heated seats 2024 BMW i5 unveiled as the first electric 5 Series CES 2023: BMW is going all-in on Android Auto Open Source – here’s why 2023 Kia Niro EV first drive review: Practical doesn’t have to bore you to tears BMW shipping cars without advertised Apple and Google features Car Reviews Product Reviews Cars Looking at its current lineup, it’s hard to believe Kia was once a byword for cheapness. In fact, the only nameplate remaining from those bad old days is the Kia Sportage. Since its launch in 1993, the Sportage has evolved from a curiosity to a true mainstream crossover SUV. But it was still missing something.
Cars BMW is no stranger to electric vehicles. It launched the quirky i3 hatchback in 2014, and followed it up more recently with the i4 and iX. But now BMW is making its flagship vehicle electric.
The BMW 7 Series is the automaker’s biggest, most opulent sedan, and for the 2023 model year, it gets a redesign that includes a first-ever electric variant. The 2023 BMW i7 xDrive60 (to use its full name) will start shipping to U.S. dealerships in November alongside gasoline 7 Series models (a hybrid version will arrive later as well).
Cars Jeep is embracing electrification but, like a 4x4 crawling over a pile of rocks, it’s doing so slowly and methodically.
The first all-electric Jeep is scheduled to launch in 2023, but in the meantime, we’re getting plug-in hybrids. With gasoline engines to curb range anxiety and traditional mechanical four-wheel drive systems to preserve off-road capability, Jeep’s 4xe (pronounced “four-by-e”) plug-in hybrids bridge the gap between two eras.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
