Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best iPhone 15 cases in 2023: our 16 favorites By Mark Jansen and Jesse Hollington Close Waiting on an iPhone upgrade ? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event.
 The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
More More More More More More Spigen Spigen Ultra Hybrid Clear Case The best clear iPhone 15 case Completely clear Good hybrid protection Slim and lightweight Can still yellow as it ages The iPhone 15 has a fun, vibrant color scheme, so why hide that behind chunky plastic? Spigen's Ultra Hybrid case is completely clear, which means your chosen color can shine through, while the good hybrid build means you don't sacrifice protection for choosing clarity. It's made from a hard polycarbonate (PC) frame with a TPU bumper, which means good strength across the board.
While it won't be as protective as bigger, more rugged cases, it's more than good enough for everyday protection. It can fall prey to the usual pitfalls for clear cases though, specifically the yellowing of TPU as it ages. Spigen has given it an anti-yellowing coating though, which should help to slow the process down. It's available at a great price, offers good durability, and is completely clear. The Spigen Ultra Hybrid is a great case.
Ringke Ringke Fusion-X case The best slim iPhone 15 case Strong hybrid design Slim and lightweight QuikCatch lanyard attachments Unique style may not be for everyone It's a strange looking case, but it's also a very effective one. Ringke's Fusion-X case is a mainstay of our case round-ups for a number of very good reasons, and it's because it's lightweight, protective, and also comes with some useful features you don't find in many other cases.
This is a hybrid case, meaning it's made from a blend of soft TPU and hard polycarbonate, giving it a broad range of protective qualities that will protect it from bumps, drops, and scratches. The really unique feature are the three QuikCatch lanyard holes in the sides of the case. You can use these points to attach a wrist or shoulder strap, and further reduce the chances of a catastrophic drop disabling your device — a real must-buy for the clumsy among us.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Speck Presidio2 ClickLock Cases The best accessorizing iPhone 15 case Exclusive ClickLock accessories Many styles available Anti-microbial protection Drop protection up to 13 feet Expensive These days, a case shouldn’t just be a case. You carry your iPhone everywhere you go, so in addition to protecting your expensive investment, the case should also offer some practicality. Cue the Speck ClickLock Presidio 2 and Presidio Perfect-Clear cases for the four 2023 iPhone models. It includes patent-pending ClickLock technology with a no-slip interlock for MagSafe accessories. The magnetically attracted bolt – built into – automatically extends to attach to the case ‘receptacle,’ forming a mechanical interlock. It’s a welcome enhancement that keeps the related accessories securely connected to the back of the case, with no slippage and no unwanted detachments.
Compatible ClickLock accessories include a hands-free car vent phone mount, an attachable wallet, and a 360-degree adjustable finger grip with a kickstand. Isn’t it about time your iPhone case did more for you? There are 169 new cases from Speck in 17 designs and 20 custom colors. Of those, 57 include Speck’s ClickLock interlocking technology. These cases will transform your mobile experience for the better. Until October 15th, you can use code DIGITAL15 to get 15% off your entire order sitewide.
RhinoShield RhinoShield SolidSuit Protective Case The best protective iPhone 15 case Strong protective design Big variety of color options MagSafe option Boring design It's not the world's most exciting case where looks are concerned, but RhinoShield's SolidSuit is strong, comes in a large variety of colors, and even has some significant eco-credentials to back it up. The SolidSuit is made from ShockSpread ECO, a TPE material that's been crafted from sustainable (i.e. recycled) plastics, so it's eco-conscious as well as protective.
RhinoShield boast that it doesn't feel plasticy, but still offers a strong grip, great durability, and it's even easy-to-clean. Yes, it's not a great looking case, but the different colorways on offer do help that a lot.
Torro Torro Leather Bumper Case The best leather iPhone 15 case High quality leather MagSafe compatible Advanced protection Expensive It's common to assume a leather case is a wallet case, but that's not always true. This Torro case isn't a full leather option, but it uses top grain U.S. leather to create a luxurious leather backplate on a protective bumper.
The bumper has Torro's GEO-AS-3 technology, a series of geometric air holes which help to absorb shock, and when combined with the inner microfibre coating, help to keep your phone safe and scratch-free. It's fully compatible with MagSafe, and while it's on the expensive side for a case, this isn't a bad price for premium leather and good protection.
More Mous Mous Clarity 2.0 Case Best drop-proof iPhone 15 case Gorgeous clear or iridescent colorways Strong drop protection Slim and lightweight Expensive You likely know Mous from its long-running video campaign showing its cases being dropped from ladders, out of windows, and even off buildings. Mous set out to create protective cases with ludicrously effective drop-proofing, and it largely succeeded in that goal.
While no case is truly proof against damage, Mous's cases are one of the best to get if the idea of dropping your phone breaks you out in a cold sweat. It's fully MagSafe compatible, has two lanyard attachment points, and has some lovely colorway options, including the stunning iridescent option. It's certainly on the more expensive side, though surely any price is worth keeping your shiny new iPhone 15 safe, right? More Image used with permission by copyright holder Blackbrook Leather 2-in-1 Wallet Case The best luxury wallet iPhone 15 case High quality leather case Detachable wallet section RFID protection Very expensive The iPhone 15 may not be at the top of the iPhone pile any more (that's the iPhone 15 Pro and 15 Pro Max), but that doesn't mean it doesn't deserve some real luxury. Blackbrook's leather wallet cases come in a number of forms, but this is one of the more high-end and useful versions.
The case section is made entirely from premium full-grain leather that ages gracefully and gives a super-soft and smooth feel in the hand. Strong magnets attach it to the wallet section, giving you the option to leave your wallet at home and carry payment cards with your phone. It also morphs into a stand, if needed. A great case with a lot to offer.
Otterbox OtterBox Commuter Rugged Case The best rugged iPhone 15 case Strong rugged protection Slim and lightweight Exceed military standards by three-times Boring design Expensive OtterBox is the first place you look when you want a rugged case, and the Commuter series is its everyday case that still packs serious protective credentials. The hybrid dual-layer construction is made from a mix of 35% recycled rubber with a rigid outer shell. OtterBox loves to exceed expectations, so it's rated to withstand three-times the military standards for drop-protection.
In short, it's protective and rugged, but since it's the everyday version of OtterBox's case range, it's also slim and lightweight, giving you the best of both worlds. It's on the expensive side, as are most of OtterBox's offerings, and it's a bit boring to look at. But if you want something protective, the OtterBox Commuter is for you.
More Ghostek Ghostek Nautical Waterproof Case The best waterproof iPhone 15 case Strong rugged protection Clear back IP68-rated waterproofing Expensive The iPhone 15 is waterproof , but if you're taking your iPhone near a pool, the sea, or anywhere with deep water, you may want to make sure your precious phone is extra protected against the destructive power of water. That's where a waterproof case comes in extra handy, and Ghostek has made a name for itself by creating waterproof cases you can rely on.
It can withstand water ingress for up to six feet deep for up to 90 minutes, protection enabled by its watertight port seals. It's not lacking in protection elsewhere either, with drop resistance up to an incredible 12 feet, raised edges for the camera lenses, and a shockproof construction. It's an expensive case for sure, but considering the amount of protection this offers, it's worth the expense.
More Amazon Snakehive Leather Wallet for iPhone 15 The best vintage wallet iPhone 15 case Made from handcrafted leather in multiple colors Can hold up to three cards and some cash Reasonably priced Bulky For an elegant and stylish wallet case that won't break the bank, Snakehive offers an impressive pick in its Vintage Leather Wallet. While it may not be as luxurious as pricier designer cases, it's still handcrafted from different cuts of top-grain nubuck leather and hand-dyed so that each case has a unique look and a great leather feel that will age into a rich patina over time. In addition to traditional chestnut brown and basic black leather colors, its also available in navy, teal, plum, and bottle green finishes that run from a soft, suede-like feel to more glossy and smooth.
Inside, durable pigskin leather keeps your iPhone 15 cushioned against impacts, along with a magnetic clasp to make sure the cover stays closed to protect your screen. Like most wallet cases, you'll also find room for three cards and some cash inside the front flap, and it can double as a stand to prop your iPhone 15 up in landscape orientation for movies and video calls.
Amazon Smartish Wallet Slayer for iPhone 15 The best minimalist wallet iPhone 15 case Offers solid drop protection Holds up to three cards plus cash Available in fun colors and patterns Not compatible with wireless charging or MagSafe Someday, Apple Pay and Digital IDs will eliminate the need to carry any cards around with you at all, but, sadly, we're not quite there yet. Thankfully, there's Smartish's Wallet Slayer. As the name suggests, this case lets you leave your wallet at home and keep your most important cards on you without bulking up your iPhone 15 and covering up the screen like most folio wallet cases do.
Instead, Wallet Slayer offers a snug compartment on the back where you can stash at least three cards and a bit of cash for easy access. It's also built tough, drop-tested for impact protection of up to six feet, thanks to air cushioned corners, plus textured sides that ensure you'll be able to keep a good grip on it. The only catch? The card compartment at the back means it's not compatible with wireless charging — including MagSafe — so unless you want to take the case off, you'll need plug your iPhone 15 in to charge it the old-fashioned way. Fortunately, that's a bit less onerous now that Apple has finally switched to USB-C.
More Amazon Totallee Thin Case for iPhone 15 The best lightweight iPhone 15 case Extremely thin and light Protects against scratches Raised edges for camera protection Little to no drop protection Boring design If you're more worried about keeping the glass back of your iPhone 15 scratch-free than dropping it, then totallee's Thin Case is a great way to add as little bulk as possible. The company is known for making some of the thinnest smartphone cases on the market that, unlike cheap shell cases, still offer decent protection thanks to raised edges around the camera and strong materials.
At only 0.02 inches (0.5mm) thick, don't expect this case to do much in the way of drop protection, but it will keep your iPhone 15 looking as pristine as the day you bought it while adding almost no extra weight and ensure it still slides easily into your pocket.
Amazon Caseology Nano Pop Mag for iPhone 15 The best fun and protective iPhone 15 case Fun two-tone color designs Good drop protection Comfortable silicone finish May clash with some iPhone colors Caseology's Nano Pop offers a set of fun two-tone designs that complement many of the iPhone 15 colors that will still show through the camera cutout while still delivering very good drop protection and a silicone back that feels smooth and comfortable to hold onto.
The playful designs give the case a sportier look, particularly if you opt for the yellow-and-blue Blueberry Navy or the yellow-and-reddish Magenta Lychee. For those who prefer a more subtle aesthetic there's also a more muted Burgundy Bean and a classic Black Sesame that still manages to be one of the most attractive neutral designs we've ever seen. The only real downside to this otherwise great case is that you may not find a color combo that works well your preferred iPhone 15 finish.
Apple Apple Silicone Case for iPhone 15 The best colorful iPhone 15 case Available in a broad selection of colors to complement the iPhone 15 MagSafe-compatible Made by Apple Expensive Only offers basic protection While it's far from the least expensive case you'll find for your iPhone 15, Apple's Silicon Case has the advantage of being made by Apple so you can be confident it will fit your iPhone like a glove and work flawlessly with MagSafe accessories.
The Apple Silicon case also has the advantage of being available in a selection of eight colors that Apple has specifically chosen to complement the iPhone 15 models that will go into it. With shades like Winter Blue, Storm Blue, Orange Sorbet, Cypress (green), and Guava, you can find something that works with any iPhone 15 color, whether you're looking for a close match or a strong contrast. You can even find pictures of every possible color combination on the online Apple Store page.
Amazon Torras Pstand Case for iPhone 15 The best kickstand iPhone 15 case Built-in kickstand supports StandBy mode MagSafe-compatible Solid drop protection A little bit pricey The advent of the new StandBy mode in iOS 17 has created a unique need among kickstand cases. Since StandBy mode only kicks in when your iPhone is propped up and charging, you ideally want a case that offers MagSafe compatibility without a kickstand getting in the way.
That's where the Torras Pstand comes in. It checks all the right boxes for style and protection while also adding MagSafe support and a kickstand that's off to one side. This means you can set your iPhone 15 down at the perfect angle for StandBy mode while still magnetically attaching Apple's MagSafe Charger to the back. Torras also offers strong magnets, promising 60% stronger attraction than Apple's MagSafe cases, and a kickstand that's made with high-carbon steel hinges to withstand over 30,000 rigorous folding tests, yet folds flush into the back when you're not using it.
Amazon Casetify Impact Case for iPhone 15 The best custom iPhone 15 case Available in dozens of cool and unique designs Solid impact protection MagSafe compatible Expensive Casetify branding on camera borders While many of the most protective cases are kind of bland, Casetify's Impact goes in the opposite direction, with dozens of cool and flashy designs that will give your iPhone 15 some flair and let you express your unique style. In addition to Casetify's expansive collection of fun and whimsical creations, it also has a massive "Co-Lab" collection that lets you get a case with licensed designs from Disney, including the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) and Star Wars, plus Peanuts, Harry Potter, The Office, BTS, and even Oreo cookies.
However, don't let all these designs fool you. As the name suggests, Casetify's Impact also provides military-grade drop protection of up to 8.2 feet (2.5 meters) while remaining surprisingly lightweight and MagSafe-compatible. The catch? They don't come cheap, but you're probably getting your money's worth if you go for one of the licensed designs.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 Pro Max screen protectors in 2023 The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The best Google Pixel 8 Pro cases in 2023: 20 best ones The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones This sealed-in-box iPhone can be yours for under $150 today Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Best Products Mobile "Fitness" can mean a lot of things. For some people, it's being able to run far, or run fast. For others, it's being able to lift heavy things and lower them back down again. Others may simply want to keep trim, or eat healthily. It may even mean getting a great night's sleep, or making sure your mental wellness is at its best. Whatever fitness means for you, we have a list of apps that cover all the possible bases. These apps excel in a number of different areas, but what they all generally have in common is that they use your iPhone's powerful tech to monitor and analyze your performance. As a result, they can help you progress along your fitness journey.
These apps are great at keeping you fit, but they're always best when paired with other tech, so make sure to check out our lists of the best fitness trackers and the best running headphones. Here are the best fitness apps for the iPhone in 2023.
Apple Fitness Mobile Choosing the best phone in 2023 can be quite challenging as there are so many excellent options available. Whether you are an iPhone fan, an Android user, or open to any smartphone, finding the perfect one for you may seem like a daunting task. But don't worry, we're here to help! Below, we have compiled a list of our top picks for the best phones you can currently buy. We believe that there's something for everyone on this list, and we're confident that you'll find a phone that suits your preferences perfectly.
Mobile Although it seems that the big three carriers are all about family plans these days, you don’t need to feel left out if you’re venturing out on your own. There are still great cellular plans out there for only one person at very affordable prices.
A single-line plan is often the best way to go, even when you have family members, friends, or roommates willing to join in on a plan. After all, if you’re the only person on your plan, you don’t need to worry about what other people need or be concerned that changes you make down the road could affect a larger group. Plus, if you’ve just moved to a new city or you’re heading off to college, staying on a group plan can get even more complicated.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
