Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best iPhone 15 Pro cases in 2023: our 14 favorites By Mark Jansen and Bryan M. Wolfe Close Apple raised the bar again at its latest fall event.
 The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are the two new top ways to experience Apple's smartphone world. These are the greatest iPhones available, with all of the new features and — excitingly for anyone who travels with a laptop or iPad — a USB-C port at the bottom. The iPhone 15 Pro is the phone to get if you want strong performance paired with a more manageable 6.1-inch display, and many would argue it's the perfect blend of size and power.
The iPhone 15 Pro is easier to handle than the iPhone 15 Pro Max. However, it’s crucial to protect your device from accidental drops and scratches, especially since it is an expensive phone that costs $1,000. Luckily, you can easily safeguard your investment by using a protective case that can withstand the usual hazards of daily use, such as bumps and scratches. We offer a wide range of case options to choose from, including slim cases and rugged cases for maximum protection. Take a look, and you’re sure to find something you’ll love.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More Speck Speck Presidio Clear Case The best clear iPhone 15 Pro case Good hybrid protection 13 feet of drop protection Slim and lightweight On the more expensive side The Apple iPhone 15 Pro comes in a number of different, muted colors to match the titanium frame, and it's easy to see why you wouldn't want to hide that. The Speck Presidio Clear means you don't have to. It's completely clear, and has been treated to resist yellowing as it ages, so it'll stay clear and unobtrusive for as long as you need it.
"Clear" isn't synonymous with "low protection" either, as the hybrid construction of TPU and polycarbonate (PC) and Speck's clever design means it's rather well protected, with 13 feet of drop protection. It has a Microban coating for a 99% reduction in stain- and odor-causing bacteria, and the materials the case is made from are 50% recycled. It's generally on the more expensive side, but if you shop around, you can find it for cheaper.
Peel Peel Super Thin Case The best thin iPhone 15 Pro case So thin it's barely there Very clear Minimalist Protection extremely lacking If you're not keen on cases, but still want a case to protect against scuffs and scratches, Peel's Super Thin cases should be where you start looking. While these are absolutely not the case of choice for anyone who's worried about bumps, drops, or heavier damage, it's otherwise perfect for anyone who's not usually a fan of cases.
Basically a step up from a skin, Peel's Super Thin case is extremely, incredibly thin — to the point of being semitransparent even when it's not a clear case. There's a big range of options though, from clear colors to semi-transparent and matte options too. Incredible slim, sleek, and oh-so minimalist, Peel's cases aren't for those who want big protection, but they're perfect if you want the minimum.
LoveCases LoveCases Caramel Macchiato Case The best cute iPhone 15 Pro case Cute style Good price Ultra-thin design Lacking real protection Every iPhone has been a hit in the style department, but sometimes you want your phone to have a little more to it — perhaps a cute little hit that sets it apart and makes it unique. That's where LoveCases's options come in.
This isn't the most protective option that exists, but we let it off because it looks great. This design is marked as a Caramel Macchiato style, but based on the inclusion of pumpkins, we'd wager there's an argument to be made that this could also be a Pumpkin Spice-based design, and perfect for autumn. It comes at a good price, and there are a lot of other designs available if coffee doesn't tickle your fancy.
Torro Torro Leather Pouch The best pouch iPhone 15 Pro case Easy all-around protection Stylish leather Wide compatibility Phone not protected during use Expensive A pouch isn't really a case, but it's a good option to add some protection if you're not a fan of cases. This pouch from Torro is about as luxurious as you can get, and it has a price to reflect that, but it's worth the money if the concept appeals to you. It's made from top grain U.S. cowhide leather, and has a microfiber inner to keep your phone safe and unscratched.
The gap at the bottom helps you push your iPhone 15 Pro out, and also lets you charge it while keeping it protected. While it won't protect as much as a rugged case against bumps and shocks, it will still offer good protection against a number of everyday threats. As mentioned, it's expensive. But since it's a pouch, as long as you upgrade to a similar sized smartphone you can keep using it even when your time with the iPhone 15 Pro ends.
Spigen Spigen Ultra Hybrid Zero One Case The best geeky iPhone 15 Pro case Awesome design that mimics the iPhone 15 Pro's innards Great Spigen protection MagSafe compatible Can be expensive Spigen has one of the largest case ranges around, and it keeps adding absolute stunners to the list. The Zero One is built on Spigen's popular Ultra Hybrid case, and it's a case that's really worth stopping to admire. The design mimics the internal construction of the iPhone 15 Pro -- and it's perfect for tech-lovers.
It's protective as well, thanks to Spigen's hybrid build of TPU and PC, while raised edges protect your camera and display, and textured edges give you the extra grip to make sure you keep your phone in your hand.
RhinoShield RhinoShield CrashGuard Case The best bumper iPhone 15 Pro case Bumper-only option for purists Exceeds military standards for drops Good sustainable option Lacks all-around protection This bumper case is another good option if you want minimal impact on your new iPhone's looks, while also adding protection. A bumper case is a case without a backplate, so it's essentially a flexible frame which fits around the edging of your iPhone. The edges are, statistically speaking, the parts of a phone most likely to hit the floor first, so adding protection here is a great way to keep your phone safe.
The CrashGuard has exceeds military standards for drops, and RhinoShield has some impressive eco credentials as well. It lacks all-around protection, such as protection for the back of your iPhone 15 Pro, but if you're happy to make that sacrifice, then this is a great buy.
Noreve Noreve Flip Leather Case The best flip leather iPhone 15 Pro case Extremely customizable Good protection Great build quality and materials Customizations can get very expensive Flip leather cases used to be the cases of choice for most phones, but their use has largely waned over the years. That's a shame, because they're really very good. If you're a fan of a flip leather case, then this one from Noreve is an excellent choice. It's made from high quality leather, and it's incredibly customizable, and you can choose everything from the color and grain of the leather, to whether it has card slots, images, and even wrist straps.
Those customizations add to the already high price of the case though, and can make a very dear product indeed, so we advise not getting overexcited when making your case. But regardless of that, Noreve's leather cases are top notch, and will protect your iPhone 15 Pro well.
Mous Mous Limitless 5.0 Case The best drop-proof iPhone 15 Pro case Very good drop-proofing Great style Lanyard attachments Expensive Dropping any phone is a heart-stopping experience, and that's doubly true when it's a device as expensive as the iPhone 15 Pro. Thankfully, Mous' cases exist to take the edge off any fall. While it's impossible to guarantee drop-proofing, the Limitless 5.0 case is as close as you're likely to get to a truly drop-proof case.
A triple-material construction also uses a layer of AiroShock, a custom shock-absorber that helps to protect your device from the destructive energies of drops and falls. It looks great, thanks to a large variety of colorways and variants, and it's fully MagSafe compatible too.
Blackbrook Blackbrook Tudor Leather Wallet Case The best leather iPhone 15 Pro case Gorgeous premium leather build Detachable wallet section Personalization options Storage for up to eight cards Very expensive It's no secret that we love leather (just look back up this list), and Blackbrook's range shows some real versatility where leather cases are concerned. Not only is the Tudor leather case a gorgeous piece of work with premium full-grain burnished tan leather, it's also protective, thanks to the solid shock-resistant bumper around the outside.
The case attaches to the wallet section with powerful magnets, so you can choose whether you want the wallet with you today, and it also comes with eight slot for credit cards and two pockets for cash. The case is MagSafe compatible, and the wallet has RFID protection too. The downside? The price. It's a very expensive case, but it's easy to argue it also offers a lot in exchange.
Ghostek Ghostek Nautical Slim Case The best waterproof iPhone 15 Pro case Extra waterproofing for your phone Great all-around protection 12 feet of drop protection MagSafe compatible Expensive Boring design The iPhone 15 Pro is already waterproof, thanks to its IP68 rating, but there's no harm in doubling down on protection if you're taking your phone for a dip. The Ghostek Nautical Slim is one of the best waterproof cases out there. It's fully sealed up to IP68 against immersion, and includes watertight port seals,so you won't get those pesky "charging port wet" alerts either.
Ghostek specializes in rugged cases, so it's no surprise this case is also well insulated against damage of all types. Raised edges and a thick bumper protect well enough to give the case protection of up to 12 feet, and it doesn't block MagSafe compatibility either. It's on the more expensive side, but for a waterproof case you can use every day, this is a bargain.
UAG UAG Metropolis LT Case The best rugged iPhone 15 Pro case Extremely protective Beautiful design Slim and lightweight despite rugged protection Expensive UAG has long been in the business of proving that rugged cases don't have to be big, bulky, ugly hunks of plastic, and that's led us to this — the Metropolis LT. It's a beautiful piece of kit, with a kevlar back plate accented by the signature UAG corners. It all leads back into the case's protection, with the kevlar's texture offering extra grip, and the corners hiding the absorbent airbags.
The TPU frame and bumper only add to this, giving your phone a drop-resistance of up to an incredible 18 feet. That's a lot of protection! While it's a little light on extra features, it does have a magnet for MagSafe, and while expensive, it's among the best rugged cases you can buy today.
More Otterbox OtterGrip Symmetry Series Case The best grip iPhone 15 Pro case Unique design choices MagSafe compatibility Built-in grip on the back Pricer than many other cases Otterbox cases are still among the most popular options for iPhones. The OtterGrip Symmetry Series offers two important features in one — MagSafe and a built-in grip. This case has raised edges to protect the phone’s camera and screen, and it comes in various colors and designs including Black, Iron Camo, You Do Blue, Aspen Gleam 2.0, Island Getaway, and On The Spot. The case is made from polycarbonate and synthetic rubber. It is on the pricier side, but if you have the cash to spare, it's a fantastic option.
More CASETiFY Casetify Compact Case The best colorful iPhone 15 Pro case Plain and colorful styles Compact design Doesn't slip on surfaces Limited MagSafe support Casetify offers a range of phone cases, from plain designs to vibrant and colorful options. Among these options is the Casetify Compact Case, which comes in an array of beautiful designs with colorful names like Nantucket Blue Hydrangeas, Lazy Daisy, Strawberries, and more. Each case is slim, sleek, and provides a secure, antislip grip. Some of these cases even offer MagSafe support.
Apple Apple Silicone Case with MagSafe The best official iPhone 15 Pro case The "official" case Seasonal colors Lovely silicone material It's expensive For those who have been using iPhones for a long time, Apple’s official silicone cases are a familiar sight. The cases are updated periodically to reflect the changing seasons, and they boast a silky, soft-touch finish on the outside and a cozy microfiber lining on the inside. With support for both MagSafe and Qi-certified chargers, these cases are not only stylish, but also practical.
More Editors' Recommendations Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more Over 3,000 iPhone 15 cases discounted for early Black Friday — from $3 The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Best Products Mobile Choosing the best phone in 2023 can be quite challenging as there are so many excellent options available. Whether you are an iPhone fan, an Android user, or open to any smartphone, finding the perfect one for you may seem like a daunting task. But don't worry, we're here to help! Below, we have compiled a list of our top picks for the best phones you can currently buy. We believe that there's something for everyone on this list, and we're confident that you'll find a phone that suits your preferences perfectly.
Mobile Although it seems that the big three carriers are all about family plans these days, you don’t need to feel left out if you’re venturing out on your own. There are still great cellular plans out there for only one person at very affordable prices.
A single-line plan is often the best way to go, even when you have family members, friends, or roommates willing to join in on a plan. After all, if you’re the only person on your plan, you don’t need to worry about what other people need or be concerned that changes you make down the road could affect a larger group. Plus, if you’ve just moved to a new city or you’re heading off to college, staying on a group plan can get even more complicated.
Mobile If you can no longer wait for Black Friday to buy a new smartphone, the good news is that you can already take advantage of some early Black Friday phone deals. We're not sure until when they'll remain available, and if their prices will change once the shopping holiday arrives, but if you're interested in any of the offers that we've highlighted below, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase immediately.
Apple iPhone 15 -- $60 per month Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
