Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore By Jesse Hollington and Christine Romero-Chan Close The Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus is a great pick for folks looking for top-notch performance in a plus-sized smartphone — and at a price that won't break the bank.
While it doesn't have the advanced camera system or S Pen of the flagship Galaxy S23 Ultra , the Galaxy S23 Plus packs an identical processor — the custom Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy — which means you'll get all the same performance at a much better price. Add in the same AMOLED 2X screen and powerful cameras, and it's right in the sweet spot among some of the best Android phones in 2023.
Nevertheless, while the Galaxy S23 Plus may not be the priciest flagship on the market, it's still an expensive smartphone that you'll want to take care of. That means getting the best case to keep it scratch-free and safe from the drops, bumps, and scrapes of life. Whether you're looking for something that can add some flair to your phone or want to be ready for life's adventures, we've rounded up a broad collection of the best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases on the market today.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More More Amazon Mous Limitless 5.0 The best MagSafe Galaxy S23 Plus case AiroShock technology absorbs impacts Compatible with MagSafe accessories Available in unique designs A bit pricey The Mous Limitless 5.0 is a stylish pick for folks who share their lives with one or more iPhone users, or even those who simply want to participate in the ever-expanding ecosystem of MagSafe accessories.
Limitless 5.0 is available in several elegant styles and features impact-absorbing AiroShock technology to cushion your Galaxy S23 Plus against everything from drops to everyday bumps and scrapes. A microfiber lining inside also protects the glass back of your phone from scratches, and the ridged edges ensure that you can keep a confident grip on it.
Amazon ESR Classic Kickstand Case The best kickstand Galaxy S23 Plus case Discreet kickstand doubles as camera protector Military-grade drop protection Versatile stand adjustment Smooth sides aren't particularly grippy ESR's Classic Kickstand case takes a unique and minimalist approach to propping up your Galaxy S23 Plus. Instead of adding a bulky bump in the middle of the case, the kickstand here fits into the camera cutout, where it does double-duty to protect your camera lenses when it's not being used as a stand.
The stand and hinge mechanism are also impressively durable, as it's constructed using a zinc alloy frame and hinge mechanism, so you won't need to worry about it breaking off or wearing out over time. The case is made just as well as the hinge, with Air-Guard corners and raised edges that offer military-grade drop protection, plus a scratch-resistant frosted acrylic back.
Spigen Spigen Slim Armor CS The best slim Galaxy S23 Plus case Built-in wallet holds up to 2 cards Slim design with drop protection Raised edges for screen and camera protection Available only in black Card storage is a bit awkward The Galaxy S23 lineup makes it easier than ever to leave your wallet behind thanks to Samsung Wallet , but we still haven't quite reached the point where can ditch all your cards entirely. That's where Spigen's Slim Armor CS comes in.
Unlike folio cases that make it awkward to use your phone, the Slim Armor CS is a traditional protective case that keeps your Galaxy S23 Plus easily accessible while still offering room for two cards in a compartment on the back. Spigen doesn't skimp on protection here; as the name implies, the Slim Armor CS includes air cushion technology and raised edges around the screen and camera to protect your device from the everyday bumps and drops of life.
More Foluu Foluu Silicone Case The best minimal Galaxy S23 Plus case Slim and lightweight Adds grip Super affordable Prevents camera lens from protruding Protective corners and raised edges Not super rugged If you want something minimalistic that will still give you some protection from drops and everyday wear and tear, this silicone case from Foluu is a good one. The liquid silicone rubber material adds extra grip, and the overall case is slim and lightweight. You have reinforced corners and raised edges to prevent impact from drops and bumps.
The camera cutout is also raised enough to prevent the lenses from protruding, eliminating the need to worry about them getting scratched up on a flat surface. This silicone case comes in four colors and is less than a Hamilton.
Samsung Samsung Leather Case The best leather Galaxy S23 Plus case Available in complementary colors Precise camera cutouts Slim and stylish Minimal drop protection It's probably no surprise that Samsung's own leather case fits your Galaxy S23 Plus like a glove, but it's also elegantly designed to complement the phone's design. It's available in three colors that either match or complement the colors of the Galaxy S23 Plus, and it features precise cutouts for each of the protruding camera lenses to both protect them and make them look perfectly flush with the back.
The premium leather not only feels comfortable in the hand, but it helps you keep a good grip on your phone, and raised edges protect your screen. There's no specific rating here for drop protection, so this likely isn't the most protective case you can get. That said, it looks great and the leather should provide at least some cushion against any falls.
Amazon Supcase Unicorn Beetle Pro The best rugged Galaxy S23 Plus case Rugged 20-foot drop protection Available in assorted colors Built-in kickstand Rotatable belt clip Bulky No built-in screen protector If you're an outdoor adventure enthusiast who wants your Galaxy S23 Plus along for the ride, then Supcase's Unicorn Beetle Pro will provide both protection that looks the part along with the versatility of a built-in kickstand and a rotating belt clip so you can keep it conveniently within reach whether you're riding a mountain bike trail or climbing up the side of its cliffs.
The UB Pro naturally includes military-grade impact protection, rated to keep your Galaxy S23 Plus from drops of up to 20 feet. However, the built-in kickstand also doubles as a ring holder, which makes it less likely you'll drop it in the first place.
More Incipio Incipio Grip Case The best grippy Galaxy S23 Plus case Multidirectional grips Heavy-duty drop protection Antimicrobial coating Limited color options The best drop protection for your smartphone is to prevent you from dropping it in the first place, which is why Incipio's Grip case focuses on making sure your Galaxy S23 Plus doesn't slip out of your hands too easily. Rather than just a set of raised bumps on the sides, this case features multidirectional grips to ensure you can keep a hold on your S23 Plus in every direction.
However, the Incipio Grip doesn't stop there. If your Galaxy S23 Plus does take a tumble, it features impact structs to provide up to 14 feet of drop protection, plus raised-edge bezels to protect the screen and camera. Plus, since the whole point of Grip is helping you keep a safe handle on your phone, it also offers antimicrobial technology to protect you from surface bacteria.
More Samsung Samsung Rugged Gadget Case The best modular Galaxy S23 Plus case Detachable accessories add versatility Military-grade drop protection Includes hook for a wrist strap Bulky Accessories need to be purchased separately Samsung's Rugged Gadget case is an innovative new modular case for the Galaxy S23 Plus. This one not only offers military-grade drop protection — and looks the part — but it also features an accessory attachment system that lets you gear it up for specific needs. This lets you choose whether you want to turn it into a wallet case to carry a couple of cards on the back, prop it up with a kickstand for watching videos, or even attach it to a compatible tripod or car mount.
While you'll have to buy at least some of these accessories separately (Samsung hasn't yet made it clear what comes in the box), it's a versatile case that at least gives you options. Plus, in addition to the grippy sides, there's a corner attachment to add a wrist strap or lanyard to make sure you can keep a hold of your phone during your outdoor adventures.
Amazon Torro Premium Leather Wallet Case The best leather wallet Galaxy S23 Plus case Stylish premium leather Fully protective with magnetic closure and shock absorption Can hold up to three cards and some cash Bulky design Torro's premium leather wallet will protect your Galaxy S23 Plus in style, surrounding it with genuine cowhide leather that feels great in the hand and offers the kind of screen protection that you won't get from a non-folio case.
Your S23 Plus also gets protection on the inside from a durable TPU frame, plus a leather strap with a magnetic clasp to keep it from flipping open and leaving your screen exposed. Inside that front flap you'll also get space for up to three cards and another slot for a small amount of cash or some paper receipts.
Amazon Smartish Wallet Slayer The best wallet Galaxy S23 Plus case Good drop protection Holds up to three cards and some cash Available in fun colors and patterns Blocks wireless charging Digital wallets have eliminated the need to carry around a lot of payment cards, but we haven't yet reached a point where you can leave your driver's license or other ID behind. However, there's definitely less of a reason to carry a bulky wallet around with you alongside your Galaxy S23 Plus, and if you only need to keep two or three cards on you, then Smartish's Wallet Slayer is a great way to go.
Rather than going full folio-style, the Wallet Slayer has a slot on the back for up to three cards and a bit of cash, with a spring-loaded mechanism that holds everything safely in place while keeping your cards more accessible and less fiddly to get at than many other wallet cases. It's also impact-resistant, tested to withstand drops of up to six feet. The only downside is that the card-holding mechanism means this case isn't compatible with wireless charging, so you'll have to remove the case to charge your Galaxy S23 Plus or go old-school and plug your phone in.
More Amazon Snakehive Vintage Leather Wallet The best folio Galaxy S23 Plus case Made from unique handcrafted leather Can hold up to three cards and some cash Available in fun colors Adds a lot of heft to the S23 Plus As the name suggests, Snakehive's vintage leather wallet adds some old-world class to your Galaxy S23 Plus with top-grain nubuck leather that belies the modern technology hiding on the inside. Each Snakehive case is also crafted and dyed by hand using different cuts of leather, and they're available in a fun selection of colors from traditional chestnut brown to bottle green.
A durable pigskin leather on the inside provides scratch and impact protection, while a magnetic clasp will ensure that the front cover stays closed to protect your screen. The front flap also has room for three cards and some cash and converts into a stand to prop up your phone in landscape mode.
SPIDERCASE Spidercase Waterproof Full Body Protective Case The best waterproof Galaxy S23 Plus case Fully waterproof with certified IP68 rating Rugged and tough protection Easy access to ports, sensors, and cameras Clear back shows off phone color Wireless charging compatible Very bulky Planning to take your Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus on underwater adventures? Then you need this waterproof case from Spidercase. It has an IP68-certified waterproof rating, so it can be submerged to 6.6 feet (2 meters) for up to one hour. It’s fully sealed and includes a built-in screen protector so you can take your phone in the water and still photograph or record your entire journey.
The case also has precise cutouts for easy access to all ports, sensors, and cameras when you’re out of the water too. The tough and rugged case also protects your phone from drops, bumps, and scratches.
Amazon Speck Presidio2 Grip The best soft-touch Galaxy S23 case Comfortable yet grippy finish Great drop protection in a slim design Antimicrobial treatment keeps the case cleaner A bit pricey Speck has a reputation for making great cases that balance solid protection with slim and lightweight designs that are comfortable to hold. The Presidio2 Grip continues this tradition with the ability to handle drops from up to 13 feet, which may surprise you, considering how unassuming it looks compared to other more rugged cases. Instead of relying on a hard polycarbonate shell, Speck has developed its own Armor Cloud technology that relies on air capsules to absorb impacts like an airbag would.
However, that drop protection is more of a backup since the no-slip grips on the sides and back help to ensure you'll always have a solid hold on your smartphone, preventing you from dropping it in the first place. Despite this, it will still slide easily in and out of your pocket, and it's remarkably comfortable to keep a grip on.
More Ringke Ringke Onyx Grip Case The best lightweight Galaxy S23 Plus case Slim, minimal design Lightweight and flexible material Anti-slip and anti-fingerprint Provides extra grip Stunning colors Not the most rugged option Looking for a case that just protects your device from everyday wear and tear and maybe a few drops every now and then? This slim and lightweight Onyx case from Ringke has a sleek profile that has no bulk.
Its flexible TPU material is easy to get on and off when needed, and it offers good protection. The textured back is anti-slip and anti-fingerprint, so your phone stays in your hand at all times. It comes in some beautiful jewel-toned colors and is highly affordable.
Teloxy Teloxy Crystal Clear Case The best clear Galaxy S23 Plus case Crystal clear to show off phone color Anti-yellowing Flexible protection Grippy Budget friendly Lacking protection The Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus comes in four beautiful colors, so why not show off your favorite color to the world? This simple clear case from Teloxy has a slim and sleek profile, and the crystal clear design lets your chosen color shine through.
The clear polycarbonate material is flexible but tough, as it’s able to withstand everyday damage thanks to the impact-resistant and shock-absorbing structure. The material is also anti-yellowing, so it shouldn’t get dingy over time. Raised edges keep the screen and camera safe, and you get some additional grip, so your phone stays in your hand — not on the floor.
Amazon OtterBox Defender Series Case The best heavy-duty Galaxy S23 Plus case Excellent drop protection Included belt clip holser Antimicrobial technology Bulky Expensive OtterBox is one of the most trusted brands when it comes to drop protection, and with good reason. While many rugged cases can handle a few drops, OtterBox's Defender series is guaranteed to keep your Galaxy S23 Plus safe from even the most serious impacts time after time — it's been tested to withstand four times as many drops as the military standard specifications.
This is partly thanks to a multi-layer construction and an antimicrobial coating that protects the case from wearing down or even discoloring over time. You also get a holster with a belt clip so you can keep your Galaxy S23 Plus handy at work or play or prop it up for hands-free viewing.
More Poetic Poetic Neon Series Case The best lightweight rugged Galaxy S23 Plus case Heavy-duty, military-grade drop protection Dual-layers while retaining slim profile Raised edges around screen and camera Extra grip and anti-slip back Bright and fun colors with accents Can buy heavy and awkward to use Got a case of the butterfingers? This affordable and heavy-duty case will keep your device safe. This one offers military-grade drop protection, and its dual-layer design helps absorb all shock and impact. The back also has an anti-slip pattern, along with rubberized accent grips.
The camera cutout is also raised, helping to keep the camera lens safe and no wobble when placed on a flat surface. It comes in a variety of subtle or bright colors that should suit everyone.
MOZOTER Mozoter Slim Phone Case Cover with Hand Strap The best budget rugged Galaxy S23 Plus case Tough and rugged protection Has detachable hand strap for one-handed use Slim and lightweight profile Multiple color options Includes bonus screen and lens protectors Style not for everyone Tend to drop your phone multiple times a day? This slim and lightweight case offers rugged protection with a few extra bonuses! It includes a detachable elastic hand strap on the back of the case, enabling one-handed use of your S23 Plus. But if you don’t want to use it, that’s fine too — just remove it! This heavy-duty case is shockproof and scratch-proof thanks to the soft TPU bumper and hard PC back. Additionally, you get two screen protectors and two camera lens protectors, which means your entire device is safe and sound. At this price point, it’s a great value, and you can choose from a handful of fun colors.
Osophter Osophter Rubber Case The best sleek style Galaxy S23 Plus case Slim and lightweight Stylish carbon fiber design Good protection Not for those who don't like carbon fiber Doesn't have heavy duty protection If you want something sleek and stylish that is suitable for professional business or casual use, then this Osophter rubber case gets the job done. This simple little case is flexible and easy to get on your S23 Plus, and also easy to get it off if you need to. The unique brushed carbon fiber texture on the back means your fingerprints won’t be smudged all over the case, and it has precise cutouts and tactile buttons.
It’s a basic case that looks great and keeps your device safe from everyday wear. You can also find it in three colors.
Nillkin Nillkin CamShield Pro Case The best camera protection Galaxy S23 Plus case Slim, lightweight profile Textured, anti-slip and anti-fingerprint back Sliding camera cover to protect lenses Wireless charging friendly Multiple colors Limited color options Love taking photos with your Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus? This sleek case from Nillkin keeps the lenses safe with a protective sliding cover so that it doesn’t get scratched up or smudged when not in use. The case itself is slim and lightweight, so it doesn’t add any extra bulk, but it also offers great protection with a four-cornered airbag design.
You also get a soft TPU frame with a hard PC back, providing extra grip on your device, and it’s soft to the touch. And you can wirelessly charge with this case.
Amazon Gviewin Slim Shockproof Case The best fashion Galaxy S23 Plus case Available in multiple patterns Transparent to blend with and show off phone color Includes screen and camera protector Basic drop protection Pattern may interfere with grip Gviewin makes some stylish and fashionable cases that are designed to blend in quite well with some of the more colorful Galaxy S23 Plus finishes. However, don't let the designs fool you, as these still offer solid drop protection against everyday drops and bumps.
The company also goes the extra mile to offer all-around protection by including a tempered glass protector for the front of your phone and even a camera lens protector for the back. There's a variety of patterns to choose from to match every Galaxy S23 color, including cherry blossoms, mayflowers, and butterflies.
Looking for other case recommendations? See our picks for the best Galaxy S23 cases and best Galaxy S23 Ultra cases ! Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy Hurry! You can get a Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 for $145 right now Best Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra deals: How to get the phone for free Best Products Samsung Mobile It's not Samsung's latest flagship smartphone, but the Samsung Galaxy S22 is still a great mobile device, especially if you can get it with a discount from your preferred retailer. If you're looking to save big on phone deals and you don't mind going for a previous-generation model, then you should check out these offers for the Samsung Galaxy S22. They may change or disappear entirely at any moment though, so you're going to have to make your purchase quickly if something catches your eye.
Samsung Galaxy S22 deals at Samsung Samsung will be the first place to go to if you're looking for discounts on the Samsung Galaxy S22. The unlocked version of the 128GB model is still going for its retail price of $700, but you can get up to $635 off by trading in your current smartphone. You can get this variant of the Samsung Galaxy S22 for just $550 for savings of $150, but only if you purchase it for use on the Verizon network.
Mobile It's not the latest entry in Samsung's flagship line of Galaxy tablets, but the Samsung Galaxy Tab S7+ remains a worthwhile purchase. That's especially true if you're able to take advantage of Amazon's 41% discount for the 128GB version of the mobile device, which translates to $350 in savings on its original price of $850 so you'll only have to pay $500. We're not sure how long this offer will remain online though, so if this tablet matches your needs and falls within your budget, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the transaction as fast as you can.
Why you should buy the Samsung Galaxy Tab S7+ There's a three-year gap between the Samsung Galaxy Tab S7+, which was rolled out in 2020, and the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 series, which was released just over a month ago. Nevertheless, the Samsung Galaxy Tab S7+ is still an excellent tablet, especially if you're planning to watch a lot of streaming shows and other types of videos, because of its 12.4-inch Super AMOLED touchscreen with 2800 x 1752 resolution, a 120Hz dynamic refresh rate, and support for HDR10+. There are also four speakers around the edge of the Samsung Galaxy Tab S7+ that create immersive sound.
Mobile One of Apple’s latest and greatest, the iPhone 15 Plus, is finally here. Announced at Apple's big iPhone 15 event, the iPhone 15 Plus gives you a huge 6.7-inch Super Retina XDR OLED display with Dynamic Island, an A16 Bionic chip for fast performance, and a powerful dual-camera system with a 48MP wide and 12MP ultrawide lenses. It has also ditched Lightning for USB-C, and it comes in five fun colors this year.
But considering that the iPhone 15 Plus still starts at a hefty $899 for the base model, that’s some pricey glass and aluminum. You definitely want to protect your investment, and one of the easiest ways to do so is with a good case. Here are some of the best iPhone 15 Plus cases you can buy right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
