Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 is here, defining the next generation of premium smartphones By Christine Romero-Chan Close Qualcomm has announced the new Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip at its Snapdragon Summit 2022 in Hawaii. This is the next iteration of its system-on-a-chip (SoC) that will be used in many of next year’s best smartphones.
Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 will set a new standard for connected computing with intelligent and groundbreaking AI. The Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 is expected in flagship devices like the OnePlus 11 and Samsung Galaxy S23 , as well as other smartphones from ASUS ROG, Motorola, Sony, Xiaomi, and more. The first devices with Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 are set to debut as early as the end of 2022.
Qualcomm “We are passionate about enabling people to do more, so we designed Snapdragon with the user at the center. Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 will revolutionize the landscape of flagship smartphones in 2023,” Chris Patrick, senior vice president and general manager of mobile handsets at Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., said. “Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 delivers groundbreaking AI, unparalleled connectivity, and champion-level gameplay, enabling consumers to enhance every experience on their most trusted device.” One of the key new features of Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 is Snapdragon Smart, which is powered by the most advanced Qualcomm AI engine. Thanks to Qualcomm’s Hexagon processor, users will get faster natural language processing with multilanguage translation, as well as even more advanced camera AI features. There are also new architectural upgrades to the Hexagon processor, including micro tile inferencing and a larger tensor accelerator, which means 4.35x better performance in AI processes.
Your next Android phone could have one of the iPhone’s best features Qualcomm’s new Snapdragon 7+ Gen 2 is big news for cheap phones This exclusive Snapdragon chip supercharges the Galaxy S23 in 4 big ways Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 will be the first to support INT4, a revolutionary AI precision format, so there will be a 60% improvement in performance and watts with AI inferencing. On top of that, the Qualcomm Sensing Hub with dual AI processors will let users make intuitive experiences with their own custom wake words.
Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 will revolutionize the landscape of flagship smartphones in 2023.
Snapdragon Sight will be ushering in a new age of professional camera software thanks to the first Cognitive ISP. With this, Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 can automatically enhance your photos and videos in rea; time thanks to semantic segmentation. This basically means an AI neural network will help the camera contextually be aware of faces, facial features, hair, clothes, skies, and so much more. Simply put, everything is optimized individually, with every detail getting customized professional image tuning.
There are also new image sensors, including Sony Semiconductor Solutions, which is the first to develop quad digital overlap HDR technology that’s now finely tuned for Snapdragon. Samsung also has the ISOCELL HP3, a 200-megapixel image sensor that is optimized for Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, which should deliver professional-quality photos and video. Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 is also the first with AV1 codec support for video playback at up to 8K HDR at 60 frames per second (fps).
Qualcomm Gaming will also be a very big deal with Snapdragon 8 Gen 2. This new chip introduces real-time hardware-accelerated ray tracing for lifelike light, reflections, and illuminations for mobile titles. There’s then the upgraded Qualcomm Adreno GPU that grants 25% faster performance over the previous generation, and there’s also 40% more power efficiency with Qualcomm’s Kryo CPU. Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 also provides the world’s first optimized support for Unreal Engine 5 Metahumans Framework.
Connectivity is another big focus with Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, as it’s touted as having the most advanced platform for 5G , Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth. Utilizing the power of AI, the Qualcomm 5G AI processor should get you the fastest 5G upload and download speeds, as well as better coverage, latency, and power efficiency. And it has support for 5G + 5G /4G Dual-Sim Dual-Active, so you can essentially use two 5G SIM cards at once. With Qualcomm FastConnect 7800, the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 has the lowest latency Wi-Fi 7 and dual Bluetooth connectivity.
Snapdragon Sound technology helps create a premium and immersive experience when it comes to music, calls, and gaming. There’ll be support for spatial audio with dynamic head-tracking (similar to Apple’s spatial audio with AirPods ), and Snapdragon will also support 48kHz lossless music streaming. Gaming will have low latency at 48ms, and with a built-in voice backchannel, communication with teammates is as clear as ever.
Qualcomm All data and information will be protected with Snapdragon Secure. This means the latest technology for isolation, cryptography, key management, attestation, and more. It’s all designed to safeguard your data and privacy through a premium level of protection to limit exposure and exploitation of your information.
Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 sounds very capable, and we should expect to see it in a lot of premium flagship devices from manufacturers in the months to come.
Editors' Recommendations The Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 is here, and it’s a big deal for Android phones Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 4 Gen 2 brings faster 5G to budget phones The Samsung Galaxy S23 FE could miss out on a major S23 Ultra feature Android phones are stealing (and beating) the iPhone 14’s best feature at CES 2023 Using the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 showed me that 2023 phones will be monsters Qualcomm Qualcomm Snapdragon Summit Tech News Mobile Following in the footsteps of the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1, Qualcomm has today introduced two low-end mobile processors that add the “Gen” naming mantra to the Snapdragon 400 and 600 series. Alongside a few notable upgrades in the camera and connectivity departments, Qualcomm's latest chips have a lot going for them.
Qualcomm Snapdragon 6 Gen 1 First in line is the Snapdragon 6 Gen 1, which takes over the mid-tier reins from the Snapdragon 695. Interestingly, this chip is based on the 4nm fabrication process, making it one of the first non-flagship mobile processors to rely on the 4nm die that offers better performance and higher energy efficiency. In comparison, Apple’s A15 Bionic inside the iPhone 13 series is based on TSMC’s 5nm process.
Qualcomm claims that the Snapdragon 6 Gen 1 is the first chip in the series to bring computational HDR video capture chops to the table. It’s also the first in the family to get the new 7th Gen AI engine that brings a 3x performance uptake for AI and ML-based tasks. Motorola is among the first brands to embrace the new Qualcomm chip, while phones powered by it will hit the shelves early next year.
Mobile Qualcomm has announced the dates for the Snapdragon Summit 2022. As rumored, the event will take place earlier than its usual timeline in November. It will run from November 15 to November 17. At the Summit, Qualcomm will showcase its latest and greatest innovations for the year ahead, along with its flagship chipset. Last year, it was the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chipset that made headlines with the new naming scheme. As such, it's likely that Qualcomm will follow the line to name the next processor as Snapdragon 8 Gen 2.
The tech giant revealed the information on its official website with a brief clip. The video proclaims that its viewers should get ready for the next wave of tech at Qualcomm’s biggest showcase of the year. COVID-19 didn’t allow for in-person events in 2020, but just like last year, the Snapdragon Summit is returning to Hawaii for 2022. While we don’t have the lineup of the products expected at the event, it’s certain that we will see the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2.
Mobile Qualcomm has a new wearable chip for smartwatches. Actually, there are two of them. They're the Qualcomm Snapdragon W5 Gen 1 and W5+ Gen 1, and Qualcomm thinks they're the next big revolution in smartwatch chipsets.
Stop me if you've heard this one before. The Snapdragon Wear 3100 from 2018 was also supposed to supercharge Wear OS watches and take them to the next level. But beyond some fairly modest battery improvements, performance on the Wear 3100 left a lot to be desired. And 2020's Wear 4100 and Wear 4100+ chips weren't much better. Qualcomm again made some battery improvements and performance gains, but seldom few smartwatches actually adopted the 4100 platform. A handful of watches from Mobvoi and Fossil use a 4100-series chip, and that's about it. Samsung's Galaxy Watch lineup is using Exynos chips, and rumors even suggest Google's Pixel Watch will do the same.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
