Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Why you need to look closely at the Galaxy S23 to see what makes it special By Andy Boxall Close “The innovation is in the details.” The Snapdragon For Galaxy partnership All about that 200MP camera Why the Galaxy S23 Plus is still important For the Galaxy S23 series, it’s the details that matter That’s how Nick Porter, Samsung U.K. and Ireland’s vice president of product management and commercial operation, described the Galaxy S23 series in an interview with Digital Trends ahead of the phone’s launch. With this statement, Porter is inviting us to look much more closely at the phone than we may do normally, perhaps overlooking the decision not to redesign the hardware for this generation, to find the reason to buy or upgrade.
Joined by Kadesh Beckford, a smartphone product specialist at Samsung, the pair gave us an insight into the crucial inner workings of the S23 phones.
The Snapdragon For Galaxy partnership Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends “People demand the very best, whether it’s for work and play,” Porter said about Samsung’s Galaxy customers, “and that comes from some of the less visible details than the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy and the 200-megapixel camera. It comes from Gorilla Glass Victus 2, the first on any smartphone in the world, which makes it more durable, more longer lasting. Then there are the enhancements to the Armor Aluminum, also making the smartphone more durable and last longer.” There’s a big problem with Samsung’s new Android tablets Samsung messed up the Galaxy Z Flip 5’s most important feature This tiny Android phone almost ruined the Galaxy S23 Ultra for me “It’s from the four years of OS updates and the five years’ worth of security updates. It’s from the enhancement of the base storage on the Galaxy S23 Plus and the S23 Ultra from 128GB to 256GB. It all redefines the ultimate smartphone experience today, and what makes them fit to invest in for the future. To be honest, the Galaxy S23 series are the best set of smartphones that we’ve ever delivered out to the market.” Joe Maring/Digital Trends But for all the smaller details packed into the Galaxy S23 series, the majority of the attention will be focused on two things: the 200MP camera and the mysterious For Galaxy addition to the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor’s name. I asked Porter what this means and discovered that we have to look beyond the For Galaxy headline to see what’s special here too.
“We’ve worked with Qualcomm for a really long time,” he said. “But in July last year, we announced we’d take that strategic partnership to the next level , and the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 is the first processor to come out after that partnership. When taken with the entire package of the Galaxy S23 series, it adds huge jumps not to just the individual performance metrics, but we’ve worked with them to ensure a seamless integration of the technology within our hardware.” The Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 pushes Galaxy to another level.
Beckford elaborated when I asked for clarification on whether the chip contains exclusive elements designed for the Galaxy S23 series, and the answer hammers home that the magic of the phone is in the details.
“I can say confidently and proudly, it is something exclusive and refined for Galaxy ,” he smiled. “It will be pushing a faster clock speed while maintaining power efficiency in comparison to any other device that has the same or similar chipset. So it is exclusive, it’s unique, and it pushes Galaxy to another level.” All about that 200MP camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The other major hardware upgrade on the Galaxy S23 Ultra over the Galaxy S22 Ultra is the 200MP camera. It’s one of Samsung’s ISOCELL HP2 sensors, a version of which was responsible for taking that massive, eye-catching promotional photo of a cat that was plastered over billboards last year.
“It is truly groundbreaking. It’s next generation,” Porter said. “Even at a basic resolution, it’s got 16 times more resolution than a 12MP sensor. So the amount of information, data, and resolution that’s coming into that sensor is vast compared to, say, a 12MP sensor or even a 108MP sensor. When we couple that with the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy, what we’re able to deliver through the NPU and ISP performance is real noise reduction. It is perfect for nighttime photography.” Beckford revealed more about the 200MP camera’s capabilities: “On the S23 Ultra, we’ve got brand new super quad-pixel setup, where the S22 Ultra had only a laser autofocus system. It individually measures color, light, and the distance in the foreground and the background to accurately give you the best picture possible. You’re going to get an amazing result. Also, in the Galaxy S23, the Focus Enhancer has become standard, so every time you take a 200MP (or 50 MP on the S23 and S23 Plus), you’re going to get incredible detail even when you pinch to zoom, and even if you take a picture in low lighting conditions, it’s going to be super bright and clear as well.” Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends The Galaxy S23 and S23 Plus haven’t been left out, and Beckford explained how the cameras have also benefited from the hardware updates.
“When we look at the S23 and S23 Plus versus the S22 and S22 Plus, even though it has the same 50MP sensor, with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy, we’re able to actually push even more detail, collect more information, gather more light in a shorter time, creating even better videos and pictures.” Even the front camera on the S23 series has gained Super HDR, giving it four times more detail than before. Beckford added that these features would not be possible without the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy processor and the custom ISP.
Why the Galaxy S23 Plus is still important Joe Maring/Digital Trends The focus of our conversation was on the Galaxy S23 Ultra, and for good reason; based on the last model’s performance, Samsung expects it to be a huge seller.
“Last year, globally, 40% of Galaxy S22 series sales was for the S22 Ultra,” Porter revealed. “We know that consumers are demanding more and more from their premium flagship smartphones. [They want] the very best tool, whether it’s for work and play. The best gaming experience, the best work experience, and the best camera.” Samsung clearly sees the Galaxy S23 Ultra delivering this, but where does it leave the Galaxy S23 Plus? Poor sales and a lukewarm reception to the iPhone 14 Plus indicate there’s more interest around the entry-level or flagship phone, news which has resulted in rumors about the future demise of a “Plus” model in the Galaxy range.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends “I can’t speculate on future R&D and decisions, but we definitely see demand for this category. We’re really excited to be offering the S23 Plus alongside the S23 and the S23 Ultra,” Porter said, who counts the Plus model in the Galaxy S Series as his personal favorite, as it provides a great mix of style, usability, and performance.
Beckford outlined why the Galaxy S23 Plus is more than just an S23 with a bigger screen, and in doing so, once again highlighted why details matter in the new range: “We’ve also got some meaningful step-ups between the S23 and S23 Plus. People do want larger displays, so the larger 6.6-inch screen will definitely be of value. For someone that may not want the S23 Ultra, what the Plus offers is a large battery, fast charging [the Galaxy S23 Plus and Ultra have 45W charging, and the S23 has 25W], UWB connectivity, and storage that starts at 256GB. So there’s meaningful innovation and features up from the base device for them.” For the Galaxy S23 series, it’s the details that matter Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends “Really, with the S23 series, what matters more than in previous generations, is the details. The details in this product show the massive improvements in performance that we’re going to deliver through the entire Galaxy S23 series,” Porter said confidently. “When we set about designing the S23 series, our vision was to redefine the ultimate premium smartphone experience.” While on the outside, the Galaxy S23 series may not look all that different from the Galaxy S22 series, according to Samsung, it’s what’s going on inside that matters.
You can read our hands-on experience with the Galaxy S23 Ultra here , and the Galaxy S23 and S23 Plus here , to see if the many details, some small and others more overtly meaningful, have resulted in winning devices. The Galaxy S23, Galaxy S23 Plus, and Galaxy S23 Ultra are available to pre-order now and will be released on February 17.
Editors' Recommendations You need to hear the crazy origin story behind this Samsung phone How one bad decision is ruining all of Samsung’s new phones Samsung just announced 3 new Android tablets. Here’s a first look I’m glad the Samsung Galaxy Note died when it did I’m still using the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra for one important reason Features Samsung Mobile It’s official — Samsung’s next Galaxy Unpacked event will be on July 26, 2023, in Seoul, Korea. And boy, this will be a jam-packed event. We’re going to see the next generation of Samsung's foldables, smartwatches, and tablets. So, let’s break it all down.
Here’s everything we’re expecting to see at the Samsung Galaxy Unpacked July 2023 event — from the Galaxy Z Fold 5, new Galaxy Watch 6, and everything in between.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Mobile Back in the day, before the iPhone, there were a plethora of personal digital assistant (PDA) devices that had styluses. Whenever you pulled out that stylus from your Palm or other PDA, you may have felt cool, and people would think, “Wow, that guy means serious business.” But when Steve Jobs took the stage for the original iPhone reveal back in 2007, one of the things he said was, “Who wants a stylus? You have to get ‘em, put ‘em away, you lose ‘em.” Ever since the iPhone introduced smart multitouch displays that needed only your finger, pretty much every other smartphone company followed suit.
Mobile Samsung is apparently ready to launch a watered-down Galaxy S23 later this year, despite previous rumors it doesn’t exist. Smartprix has shared alleged renders of the Galaxy S23 Fan Edition (aka the Galaxy S23 FE), which is reportedly coming out later this year.
Notably, Samsung skipped a Fan Edition treatment for the Galaxy S22 after launching an S21 FE variant. Instead, the company lowered the asking price of Galaxy S22 following the launch of Galaxy S23 last year, keeping the former on the shelf as an entry point to the Galaxy flagship experience.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
