Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? My life with the Apple Watch Ultra transformed after changing this one thing By Andy Boxall Close I love the Apple Watch Ultra , but I can’t deny it’s a pretty big smartwatch for everyday wear. Ahead of a recent trip away, I’d chosen to wear the Ultra, and wanted to experiment with a different band.
 I wanted it to be more comfortable, but not at the expense of style, or by wearing a leather band, which I don’t think suits it at all.
One easy change for the Apple Watch Ultra Secure, light, and comfortable Buy this band By chance, I stumbled on what I think is the perfect band for the Apple Watch Ultra when you’re not exploring mountains or the ocean, and you just want to show this superb smartwatch off on the streets.
One easy change for the Apple Watch Ultra Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I purchased the Apple Watch Ultra with the Ocean Band, which like the other two custom Apple Watch Ultra bands — the Alpine Loop and Trail Loop — is chunky and hardwearing. It looks great and absolutely suits the Ultra. It fits in with the lines and size perfectly, and I’ve always been loathe to change it because of this. I needed a new band that matched the look, but improved the comfort, and that’s a tough task.
The Apple Watch Series 8 is far less sensitive to band changes, in that the vast majority of available bands suit the size and shape of the case very well. It’s not the same with the Apple Watch Ultra. Bands that are too slim, too thick, or have sharp tapers look weird against the Ultra’s massive 49mm case, and as the watch already captures enough attention on your wrist, pairing it with the wrong strap will attract the wrong kind of attention.
1.
Apple Watch Ultra is also made of titanium 2.
Apple Watch Ultra with the Ocean Band For example, leather bands look odd on this watch. This isn’t a dress watch, so anything too smart doesn’t suit it at all. It’s the same with a metal bracelet. The Ultra is heavy enough without increasing it further, and even the very best metal bracelets can’t often be called comfortable. Standard Sport Loop bands are too boring, and the shapeless Sport Loop is too square. So where to go from here? The band I’ve been wearing the Apple Watch Ultra with is Apple’s simple Solo Loop, and I think it looks fantastic. It’s a credit to Apple’s superb design work that the band doesn’t look too slim, and the taper perfectly matches the corners of the case, making it look just as cohesive and “made for the Ultra” as the Ocean Band or Alpine Loop. But it’s not all about the style; the change makes the Apple Watch Ultra feel far less cumbersome, and a lot more comfortable too.
Secure, light, and comfortable I chose the rubber Solo Loop rather than the Braided Solo Loop. The rubber Solo Loop suits the Apple Watch Ultra’s outdoorsy style better, in my opinion, and I find it keeps the smartwatch better centered on my wrist too. While I love the Braided Solo Loop and wear the Apple Watch Series 8 with one, it doesn’t hold the Ultra’s additional case weight very well, causing it to annoyingly slip around my wrist.
This doesn’t happen with the rubber Solo Loop. It has more grip against my skin, and in addition to keeping it centered, it doesn’t shift around under my cuff either. Another benefit is the weight. With the Solo Loop, the Apple Watch Ultra weighs 74 grams, but with the Ocean Band, it weighs 95 grams — and you really can notice the difference on your wrist.
Because it’s so slim against your wrist, it’s less bothersome when doing things like typing too, should you have to do that when wearing the smartwatch. I do, and previously, I’d often take the Apple Watch Ultra off because it got in the way. I wore the Ultra for four days, during which time I didn’t need to charge the battery because it lasts so long. It also didn’t get caught on clothes, didn’t get sweaty or feel too tight, and — perhaps most surprisingly of all — blended into the background because the size and weight had been minimized.
Buy this band Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The combination of the Apple Watch Ultra and a Solo Loop band stops the smartwatch from looking so much like a tool watch.
 The case is the focal point because the strap is so simple, and it becomes more wearable in more situations, and with more outfits too.
I wanted to wear the Apple Watch Ultra over the Series 8 due to its statement-making look, but did not want to put up with the standard “lifestyle” band. I wasn’t expecting the basic Solo Loop to be such a success, but I’m really glad I tried it. It has changed the Apple With Ultra entirely, and that’s the mark of a really great watch and band pairing.
The Apple Solo Loop comes in a host of different (and often quite bright) colors and costs $50. The darker colors suit the Apple Watch Ultra, but I’d love to see some out there with the new Canary Yellow Solo Loop. Why not make a bold statement with the band as well as the watch? The Ocean Band alongside the Apple Watch Ultra with the Solo Loop band.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you haven’t bought a Solo or Braided Loop before, be careful with the sizing. Both of mine are the same size — a size 6 on my 6.5-inch wrist — but I do recommend trying the size Apple suggests and the one below it too. Apple’s sizing tool says I should take a size 7 Solo or Braided Loop, but in reality, it’s far too loose.
Don’t be put off by Apple not explicitly listing the Solo Loop as an Apple Watch Ultra band. It fits perfectly, looks great, and completely changes the way you can wear the smartwatch.
Editors' Recommendations Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages Apple Watch is bringing back a popular feature soon I wore a G-Shock watch that rivals the Apple Watch Ultra 2 Waiting for the Apple Watch Ultra 3? We have bad news I’d love to buy an Apple Watch, but there’s something stopping me Apple Apple Watch Features Wearables Mobile Some Apple Watch owners are experiencing an issue where the display flickers or pulses when the Always On mode is enabled.
The good news is that Apple is now investigating the issue, according to the contents of an internal service memo shared with Apple Authorized Service Providers and seen by MacRumors.
Mobile I have heard some people criticize this year's Apple Watches, saying they are not much different from the previous models. While it is true that the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 are strikingly similar to their predecessors, there are some tweaks about the new wearables that should not be overlooked.
As anyone who already owns a new Apple Watch will tell you, new features this time around include brighter displays, a new processor, more storage, and more. There's also the Double Tap feature, which Apple is expected to unleash in just a few weeks.
Mobile The 18-karat gold Apple Watch Edition. Apple Apple recently classified its first-generation of Apple Watches as obsolete, according to an internal memo seen by MacRumors.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
