Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Features Low Power Mode totally changed the way I use my Apple Watch Ultra By Andy Boxall Close The Apple Watch Ultra’s Low Power Mode received an update in watchOS 9.1 to supposedly extend the battery life of the smartwatch to 60 hours in certain situations. The question is, can it really last this long on a single charge, and what’s it like to still use the smartwatch when you activate the special mode? Low Power Mode, engaged! Does the battery really last for 60 hours? Everything it’s cracked up to be — and more I found out over the course of a few days, and in the process, discovered Apple is underselling the feature; it’s even more capable than the company suggests. In fact, Low Power Mode may just change the way you use and charge your Apple Watch Ultra from now on.
Low Power Mode, engaged! Image used with permission by copyright holder Turning on Low Power Mode is very simple. Swipe up on the Apple Watch’s main screen and tap the battery percentage icon, then look for the switch next to the Low Power Mode option. Tap it, read the information, and turn the feature on. It’s very easy, and although I’ve been using it continuously, you could easily turn it on and off throughout your day to conserve battery power. A yellow circle appears at the top of the watch face when Low Power Mode is active.
What does it mean to the Apple Watch Ultra’s functionality when you turn the mode on? The always-on screen is turned off, cellular connectivity only updates once an hour, sensors run at a reduced capacity (including the heart rate sensor, which doesn’t run in the background, and checks for an irregular heart rate less frequently), workouts are no longer automatically detected, and blood oxygen measurements aren’t taken. Otherwise, the watch works as usual.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends There’s a further Low Power Mode specifically for workouts, which reduces the frequency of heart rate measurements and how often it pulls in GPS updates. Plus, there’s a setting under Workouts on the Apple Watch to reduce the number of GPS and heart rate readings taken when Low Power Mode is activated, which is specifically for walking, running, and hiking use.
Low Power Mode is available on any Apple Watch running watchOS 9.1, but the amount of time the battery lasts will vary depending on the model, and we are concentrating on the Apple Watch Ultra here.
Apple states with Low Power Mode, you should be able to complete a triathlon made up of a 2.4-mile swim, a 112-mile bike ride, and a 26-mile run. I wasn’t about to put that to the test — because I didn’t want to die. Instead, my plan was to turn on Low Power Mode, go about my days as normal, use the Apple Watch as usual, and wait to see how close it could get to the 60-hour target.
Does the battery really last for 60 hours? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I put the Apple Watch Ultra on at 9 a.m. on Tuesday morning with 100% battery and immediately activated Low Power Mode. If the battery really could last for 60 hours, it should then be ready for a recharge at about 9 p.m. on Thursday. Little did I know the Apple Watch Ultra wouldn’t be ready for a recharge at that time, and in fact, it would surpass my expectations by some considerable distance.
It all started in a very positive fashion, as by 4 p.m. on the first day, the battery percentage on the Watch Ultra had reduced to 99%. That’s right, after seven hours, the Watch Ultra’s battery was still basically full. By the end of the second day, the battery was still at about 70%, and at 10 a.m. on Thursday morning, the battery was at 68%. It was becoming clear the Apple Watch Ultra would smash the 60-hour target, so I decided to put extra strain on it.
Until this point, I’d checked and interacted with notifications as usual, controlled music playing on my iPhone, and looked at my activity levels during the day. I’d received “move” reminders, but the automatic hand-washing timer was disabled. I wore the smartwatch all day and left it turned on overnight, but didn’t track sleep. The Watch Ultra is just too big and bulky to comfortably wear in bed.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends On Thursday early evening, I worked out for almost an hour — strength training and indoor cycling — and tracked it with the Apple Watch Ultra. While the display on the watch didn’t update my heart rate constantly, it still recorded everything, and the records showed up as usual in the Fitness app on my iPhone. In some of the workout modes, not all the usual data will be collected. Afterward, I spent 30 minutes or so using the smartwatch in general, including checking emails.
At 9 p.m. Thursday, when the 60-hour period was up, the Apple Watch Ultra still had 56% battery remaining. Used minimally in Low Power Mode like this, it’s realistic the Apple Watch Ultra could continue on and reach 120 hours of use on a single charge, even with another hour’s worth of workouts. That’s five days.
 It’s worth noting I didn’t have the reduced GPS/heart rate workout feature enabled, as I didn’t track any hiking or running workouts, but the test shows how effective it will be if you use it.
Everything it’s cracked up to be — and more Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The point of this experiment was not really to see if you could live with the Apple Watch Ultra in Low Power Mode all the time, as this would be a waste of what is a very capable, and very expensive, smartwatch. Instead, it was to understand if you could realistically stretch the battery out over more than a few days through careful use of the feature, should you only need your Apple Watch Ultra to be fully functional at certain times when out and about, and to understand if very active people needed to worry about charging.
It’s absolutely clear Low Power Mode means you don’t have to pack a charger or worry about finding a way to charge the watch, over a long weekend away, even when tracking activity. It’s simple to activate and deactivate when needed and surprisingly customizable based on your tracking requirements, too, meaning you can manage power consumption and functionality to match your needs. Remember, seven hours in Low Power Mode reduced the battery by a single percent on my first day using it.
Apple Watch Ultra Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Will you notice Low Power Mode is on? Yes. The always-on screen is turned off, but like the Apple Watch SE 2 , the wrist gesture accuracy is excellent; just by lifting your hand, the screen immediately lights up. I also received notifications and other reminders, so the Watch UItra never felt redundant on my wrist. Expect some power-intensive features, like making calls, to be slower than usual too. I wouldn’t use Low Power Mode all the time, but when I don’t need the smartwatch’s full capabilities, switching it on would obviously be beneficial in certain circumstances.
Although I have not completed the triathlon Apple put as its benchmark, I don’t see any reason why the Watch Ultra, in Low Power Mode, couldn’t track one and last for that amount of time on a single charge. For everyone else who isn’t planning a triathlon, think about using Low Power Mode more often as a way to reduce the need to charge the battery in your smartwatch. It’s far more effective than even Apple claims it is.
Editors' Recommendations Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages I wore a G-Shock watch that rivals the Apple Watch Ultra 2 I’d love to buy an Apple Watch, but there’s something stopping me Something strange is happening with my Apple Watch Series 9 You can already use the Apple Watch Series 9’s best new feature Apple Apple Watch Features Wearables Mobile The Apple Watch Ultra 2 announcement from Apple's iPhone 15 event needs some thinking about before it makes sense. Why? At first, it looked like a product barely deserving of the name due to a disappointing list of upgrades, the addition of only a few new features, and the fact that it has exactly the same look as last year’s model.
This is all factually correct, but I’m about to explain why it was to be expected — and why it doesn’t matter at all.
It’s not for Apple Watch Ultra owners Apple Watch Ultra Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Mobile The Apple iPhone 15, regardless of which model you buy, has a USB-C connector and not the old Lightning cable connector on the bottom.
This huge design change could have brought with it a truly new and exciting feature to the latest iPhone. But it’s as dreary and uninteresting as you’d expect a new cable and port to be, and that makes it a truly wasted opportunity.
What did we want? The OnePlus 11 fast charging using USB C. Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Mobile Apple Event - September 12 Every year brings something new, and that's doubly true for smartphones. Summer is on the way out, and while the retreat of the sun is bad news for many, there's a bright silver lining on this cloud: The release of the Apple iPhone 15. Apple has brought the basic iPhones into line with the Pro models, giving even the cheapest flagship models access to the Dynamic Island and the design refresh that we loved in last year's Pro iPhones. But that isn't all, as the iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max were also revealed, with improvements of their own.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
