Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Montblanc Summit 3 review: unmatched luxury, half-baked smartwatch By Andy Boxall Close $1,290.00 Beautiful design Luxury materials Latest Wear OS 3 software Two straps included 1-day battery life at the most No Google Assistant Limited Montblanc fitness app The more I wear the Montblanc Summit 3, the more I consider it one of the most important smartwatch releases of recent times. Big statement, right? Absolutely. So let’s examine why.
Montblanc Summit 3 design Montblanc Summit 3 Wear OS 3 software Montblanc Summit 3 fitness and activity tracking Montblanc Summit 3 with iOS Montblanc Summit 3 performance and battery Montblanc Summit 3 price and availability The Montblanc Summit 3 has luxury, desirability, and high-tech appeal It’s the first non-Samsung smartwatch with Google’s Wear OS 3 , it works with Android and iOS (unlike Samsung’s latest), it comes from an established luxury Swiss brand, and while it’s expensive, it’s not obscenely so. However, it being important is one thing, but being a good smartwatch is another. Can it succeed at both? One of the best Wear OS smartwatches just got a surprise upgrade Fossil’s first Wear OS 3 smartwatch looks like a better (and cheaper) Pixel Watch Qualcomm’s Snapdragon W5 Gen 1 chip might actually save Android smartwatches Montblanc Summit 3 design There’s a chance that, like me, you associate Montblanc with beautiful writing instruments and luxury travel accessories more than watches. When you do think about Montblanc watches, its traditional, quite classically styled travel watches and dress watches that come to mind. Things are changing, though, with the company launching some intriguing new models — the beautiful Iced Sea divers watch and 1858 GMT , for example — which seem to take it in a new, more modern direction.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Summit 3 fits in perfectly. It’s a wonderful mix of current tech and elegant watch design, but because it doesn’t take too much inspiration from Montblanc’s heritage models, it looks modern and stylish. It’s made from titanium with a stainless steel bezel, crown, buttons, and case back, plus it has an anti-scratch sapphire crystal over the screen. In the box are a rubber strap and a leather strap, allowing you to freely choose a sportier or more casual look.
Speaking of which, it looks fantastic. The satin finish titanium oozes class, the polished steel sections glint in the sun, and the flat sapphire crystal is beautifully clear. While it shares similar materials to the Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 Pro , the two couldn’t be further apart in the treatment of those materials or the design around them. This is a proper luxury smartwatch, and it feels very special to wear it. It’s even light and comfortable enough to be worn overnight, and the rubber strap doesn’t get sweaty or uncomfortable.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The large knurled crown — a Montblanc trademark — makes using it easy and comfortable, plus I like the way it has a button inside it, rather than the entire crown being a button. The pushers that flank it look great, but are quite clicky when pressed compared to the crown’s button. The 42mm case size is modest as is the 14mm thickness, and I think it fits my 6.5-inch wrist really well. It’s quite a masculine design, though, and that added to the size of the case, means those with smaller wrists may find it overpowering.
Its natural rival is the 42mm Tag Heuer Connected Calibre E4 , which only comes in stainless steel but has a ceramic bezel. It’s sportier and more modern than the Summit 3, as you’d expect from the brand, while the Montblanc smartwatch is more elegant and restrained. The screen is identically sized and looks equally as bright and colorful too. My own watch preferences meant I initially leaned more towards the Tag Heuer, but the Summit 3 has turned all that around.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I don’t wear watches styled like the Summit 3 very often, and they need to be pretty special to tempt me away from divers watches and chronographs, but the Summit 3 has really won me over. It reminds me of wearing a Longines Record for a weekend, despite it being totally different from my usual choices, and absolutely loving the way it looked. The blend of Montblanc heritage, modern design choices, and high-class materials makes the Summit 3 very desirable.
Montblanc Summit 3 Wear OS 3 software The Montblanc Summit 3’s design will make watch fans stop and stare, but it’s the software that makes tech fans hot under the collar. Samsung has exclusively (officially or otherwise) loaded Google’s Wear OS 3 software onto its Galaxy Watch models, making Montblanc the first to use it without Samsung’s user interface over the top.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wear OS 3 is all-new and sadly quite familiar at the same time. The initial onboarding process is new as you don’t use the Wear OS app to connect (in fact, iOS makes you uninstall the Wear OS app entirely before it’ll pair), and instead, you rely on Montblanc’s Summit app. This is a big change for manufacturers with Wear OS 3, and it allows them to completely control the entire watch experience from the app to the software on the watch, meaning it can all be branded appropriately. For example, all the watch faces available in the app are Montblanc’s own.
Controlling the watch is basically the same as ever, with swipes to navigate menus, taps to select options, and the rotating crown to make zipping through Wear OS faster. The rotating crown works throughout the system and is far more deeply integrated than similar models using Wear OS 2. The top pusher shows recently used apps, while the bottom pusher launches Montblanc’s Fitness app, but this can be changed to an alternative in the Settings.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends You swipe through multiple Tiles to see relevant information, including your calendar, the weather, steps, heart rate, blood oxygen, and sleep data. The layout and options can be customized in the app. Other apps can be downloaded from the Google Play Store, you can control music on your phone from the watch, notifications arrive in a list accessed with a swipe, and Quick Settings appear when you swipe down on the main screen.
Design highlights for me include the subtle, grey, oblong-shaped buttons in the app menu and notifications, plus the easily pressed Quick Settings controls, the clean fonts, and the overall uniformity of design. The operating system’s speed and fluidity don’t disappoint either. Wear OS 3’s design is attractive, clean, and modern, plus giving control over the app and pairing process to the manufacturer makes it all feel more cohesive too. It’s also faster to set the smartwatch up, another improvement over Wear OS 2.
However, the software is limited and sometimes problematic on the Summit 3. I had a few problems entering my Google account and it accepting a Wi-Fi network. It’s not without odd bugs, the worst being a few random shutdowns. I’ll come back to the iOS compatibility in a while, but it’s not good. There are some features missing, especially in the accessibility menu. There’s no option to adjust the vibration intensity, no duration settings for button presses, and because there’s no speaker on the watch, there’s no voice control — and Google Assistant isn’t available either. The only accessibility mode is magnification.
Bugs need to be squashed, the accessibility is disappointing, the lack of a speaker and Google Assistant mystifying, and it can be a bit ponderous to use when using apps like the Play Store. Wear OS 3 is an improvement over Wear OS 2, but it’s not clear whether the shortcomings seen here are part of its unfinished nature or decisions made by Montblanc.
Montblanc Summit 3 fitness and activity tracking There’s a heart rate sensor on the back of the Summit 3, sensors for blood oxygen, plus it’ll work out your stress levels and track all your workouts through dedicated apps on the watch.
 Why is on the watch italicized? Because you can only do so on the watch, as none of Montblanc’s own fitness features sync with the Montblanc app on your phone, so all data is kept and viewed on the little screen. No graphs, no easily sorted historical data, nothing.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Montblanc’s fitness app doesn’t sync with other platforms either, so if you use Strava, then you’ll have to download and use it separately. It doesn’t link to Google Fit or Apple Health, so there’s no way to keep track of all your activities and health data in one place on your phone. This means adding an additional series of apps duplicating what’s already available from Montblanc.
It’s a considerable downside, effectively minimizing the usefulness of the Summit 3’s own nicely designed health tracking features, and forcing you to download further additional apps. It’s not clear whether this is a consequence of Wear OS 3 and the arrival of branded companion apps or if it’s a Montblanc decision. It’s something that may be addressed in a future software update, but at the moment on the model we reviewed, this is the situation.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What about accuracy? It estimated the same calorie burn as the Apple Watch Series 7 but differed with a higher average heart rate. During workouts, I’d see it recording vastly higher (and unrealistic) numbers than the Apple Watch, so this is to be expected. Oddly, when you choose the “Other” workout mode it still records distances and speed, despite me not leaving my living room when exercising and the little icon showing a person lifting weights.
All this means the Summit 3 is not a smartwatch for fitness enthusiasts. It has none of the ability of the Galaxy Watch 5 Pro, is missing the simplicity and accuracy of the Apple Watch Series 7 , and lacks dedicated apps and modes to appeal to golfers like the Tag Heuer Connected Calibre E4.
Montblanc Summit 3 with iOS The Montblanc Summit 3 works with Android and iOS, but I cannot recommend it to anyone with an iPhone. This is usually true anyway because the Apple Watch better integrates with iOS for more functionality, but technically most non-Samsung smartwatches can be used with iOS if you really wanted to and don’t mind missing out on things like Google Maps. I’ve had the Summit 3 connected to several Android phones and an iPhone 13 Pro , on which the experience was a horror show.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Rubber and leather straps included in the box Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Horrific? Oh yes. Downloading the 20MB-ish Google Fit app when connected to iOS took about 20 minutes, then another 10 minutes to set up because it was so slow. Once I’d done this, I noticed the battery had taken about a 50% hit during its Herculean effort to give me a fitness app that syncs across several platforms. Not only that, but it was the second time I tried to install the app, as the first time it refused to download at all.
Living with it, the Summit 3’s software stutters and pauses when connected to iOS in a way that’s almost entirely absent when connected to Android. It’s no wonder Samsung decided to keep the Galaxy Watch 4 and Galaxy Watch 5 away from iOS, as if they operated anything like the Summit 3, people would have been sending them back immediately. Even after a reset and trying again with iOS, I had the same experience.
Montblanc Summit 3 performance and battery The Summit 3 has Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 4100+ processor and 1GB of RAM, and it’s a modest performer when connected to an Android phone. Wi-Fi range is quite short, though, certainly shorter than your phone, and there’s no ability to take calls on the smartwatch. The screen is a beauty with its pin-sharp 416 x 416 resolution, and the 1.28-inch size is just right.
Previous Next 1 3 The charging plinth also works as a stand Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Battery life isn’t so good. In the couple of weeks I’ve been testing the smartwatch, it has not lasted more than a full day, and even with minimal use — no GPS or workout tracking, for example — it’s down to less than 30% most evenings. Tracking workouts give it a bashing, too, with a 30-minute workout taking (at the minimum) 12% of the battery each time.
Charging the Montblanc Summit 3’s battery each day is essential. It takes a little less than an hour using the clever wireless charger, which can be used as a plinth or an upright charger for use on a nightstand.
Montblanc Summit 3 price and availability There are three models of the Montblanc Summit 3 available, and all cost $1,290 or 1,105 British pounds. The difference is in the titanium finish, with the standard titanium version seen in our photos, a black titanium version, and a bicolor model with a grey titanium case with a black stainless steel bezel.
While not cheap in the slightest, the Summit 3 is the cheapest way to get a Montblanc watch on your wrist (outside of the older Summit Lite), and it’s also quite a lot less than its top rival in the luxury smartwatch world, the Tag Heuer Connected Calibre E4.
The Montblanc Summit 3 has luxury, desirability, and high-tech appeal I love the Montblanc Summit 3’s fantastic design, and I like the direction Wear OS is taking, but the treatment of activity tracking is a misstep, the missing features baffling, and the short battery life disappointing. It all works acceptably enough, the design is great, and all the tools are there, but it can’t quite live up to the promise.
If we only looked at the design, build quality, and lovely presentation, the Summit 3 would be one of the best, most desirable smartwatches you can get to use with an Android phone. However, the technical side, despite having the latest software and a decent (if not that new) processor, just isn’t as good as it should be.
Editors' Recommendations The best smartwatches in 2023: our 12 favorites One of last year’s most luxurious smartwatches finally has Wear OS 3 Wear OS 3 is finally coming to these older smartwatches this month Montblanc’s newest smartwatch has Wear OS 3 and costs nearly $1,300 Google’s Pixel Watch is real and it’s coming soon Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile We've tested dozens of smartwatches, including many luxury models that specifically target watch enthusiasts. Our rigorous real-world testing gives us unmatched insight into the smartwatch market. The best Android smartwatch today is either the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 Classic or the Mobvoi TicWatch Pro 3. Both represent the best their respective operating systems have to offer, with slick performance, attractive hardware, and clever control systems.
If you want a smartwatch for your Android phone, the number of choices can be overwhelming. Our list does not only include smartwatches that use Google's Wear OS software but Samsung's Tizen software and other operating systems too. Almost all smartwatches will work with your Android phone, except for the Apple Watch. If you own an iPhone, take a look at our list of best smartwatches to see why the Apple Watch is our overall recommendation.
Mobile A new Motorola-branded smartwatch is on its way for a launch by the end of the year, according to a press release shared by CE Brands, the current owners of the Motorola brand for smartwatches. The company has claimed to have already completed work on a Moto Watch 100, branding it an affordable premium smartwatch that will be going into mass production over the next month.
"Our newest smartwatch, the Moto Watch 100, which is designed for an entry-level price point, is scheduled to begin mass production in November 2021. With several major retailers in line for initial orders to test the product, we believe the Motorola brand coupled with an affordable premium-feeling smartwatch has the potential to be a truly disruptive product," the release reads.
Mobile Some of the best smartwatches run Wear OS , and there are loads of apps that add all sorts of handy capabilities. A great Wear OS app does more than just send notifications to your wrist -- they entertain, track your fitness and health, help you to stay organized, and can indirectly save your phone's battery life, as you're checking your wrist rather than your phone's display.
With all of that in mind, here are our picks of the best Wear OS apps. Most of these apps still rely on a partner app on your smartphone, but a few offer stand-alone functionality. Either way, they're all must-haves for your Wear OS smartwatch.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
