Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Qualcomm’s Snapdragon W5 Gen 1 chip might actually save Android smartwatches By Joe Maring Close Qualcomm has a new wearable chip for smartwatches. Actually, there are two of them. They’re the Qualcomm Snapdragon W5 Gen 1 and W5+ Gen 1, and Qualcomm thinks they’re the next big revolution in smartwatch chipsets.
W5+ Gen 1 vs. W5 Gen 1 Huge leaps in performance Hours and hours of extra battery life A big deal for small wrists Why Qualcomm says this time will be different Stop me if you’ve heard this one before.
The Snapdragon Wear 3100 from 2018 was also supposed to supercharge Wear OS watches and take them to the next level. But beyond some fairly modest battery improvements, performance on the Wear 3100 left a lot to be desired. And 2020’s Wear 4100 and Wear 4100+ chips weren’t much better. Qualcomm again made some battery improvements and performance gains, but seldom few smartwatches actually adopted the 4100 platform. A handful of watches from Mobvoi and Fossil use a 4100-series chip, and that’s about it. Samsung’s Galaxy Watch lineup is using Exynos chips, and rumors even suggest Google’s Pixel Watch will do the same.
Qualcomm But now we have these Snapdragon W5 and W5+ chips. Similar to the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 rebranding Qualcomm introduced for its smartphone chips last year, the old Wear brand is gone in favor of the W5 moniker. It’s a signal of how important Qualcomm thinks the W5 platform is. And based on everything the company’s shown so far, it’s a change that seems warranted.
W5+ Gen 1 vs. W5 Gen 1 Similar to the Wear 4100 series, Qualcomm is giving companies two distinct chip options to choose from: the W5+ Gen 1 and the W5 Gen 1.
Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 4 Gen 2 brings faster 5G to budget phones Qualcomm’s Snapdragon X75 ushers in the next era of 5G connectivity At CES 2023, it’s not the software that’s killing Android smartwatches In short, the W5+ Gen 1 will be the go-to chip for “mainstream smartwatches,” while the W5 Gen 1 is designed for “segment-specific wearables.” Qualcomm says this includes kid and senior-focused watches, health wearables, etc.
In an interview with Pankaj Kedia, Qualcomm’s Sr. Director and Global Head of Wearables, he told me, “Could W5 be used in [smart] glasses? Sure. Could W5 be used in a pendant without a display? Sure.” Both the W5+ Gen 1 and W5 Gen 1 support Wear OS and Android , but Qualcomm’s trying to target a wider reach of wearables with this lineup. The W5+ Gen 1 is the flagship chip for smartwatches, while the standard W5 is the catch-all for everything else.
Huge leaps in performance This means that the W5+ Gen 1 is the chip you’ll likely see in new Wear OS smartwatches launching in the weeks and months ahead. The good news? Qualcomm’s performance and design improvements for the W5+ Gen 1 sound incredible.
Qualcomm The main component of the W5+ Gen 1 and W5 Gen 1 is Qualcomm’s new SW5100 SoC (system-on-chip). It’s a quad-core CPU with a 4nm design — a substantial upgrade over the 12nm Wear 4100/4100+ and 28nm Wear 3100. The smaller design of the SoC means a few things: faster performance, more efficient battery life, and smaller smartwatch designs.
On the note of performance, Qualcomm says that the W5+ Gen 1 is 2x faster compared to the Wear 4100+ from two years ago. The CPU is still a quad-core Cortex A53 chip, though it’s now joined by a Cortex M55 co-processor clocked at 250MHz. The Adreno 504 GPU from the 4100+ has also been swapped out for the Adreno 702. And instead of running at a paltry 320MHz like it was the Wear 4100+, the W5+ Gen 1 ramps up the GPU to 1GHz. You also now get 2133MHz of LPDDR4 RAM (up from 750MHz of LPDDR3) and Qualcomm’s U55 machine learning chip — something the Wear 4100+ didn’t have at all. The W5+ Gen 1 also adds a faster Wi-Fi modem, a “best-in-class” LTE modem, and upgrades the old Bluetooth 4.2/5.0 technology to Bluetooth 5.3.
Kedia told me that he “doesn’t use the phrase ‘most advanced leap yet’ casually,” but that’s clearly how Qualcomm is pushing the W5+ Gen 1.
Hours and hours of extra battery life But performance is just part of the story. Equally important for the W5+ Gen 1 is battery life. Compared to the Wear 4100+, Qualcomm’s promising 50% longer battery in “typical DOU (day of use) scenarios.” Qualcomm outlined three examples in my briefing, and each one sounds more impressive than the one before it.
On a “sleek fashionable” smartwatch with a 300mAh battery, the W5+ Gen 1 will offer 43 hours of battery versus 28 hours on the same watch with the Wear 4100+. A “4G connected smartwatch” with a 450mAh battery will get 54 hours on the W5+ Gen 1 compared to 36 hours on the Wear 4100+. And going up to a “4G connected sports watch” with a 600mAh battery, the W5+ Gen 1 cranks out 72 hours of battery instead of 48 hours on the Wear 4100+. Those are increases of 15 hours, 18 hours, and 24 hours, respectively. And that’s all in scenarios with an always-on display enabled! How is Qualcomm achieving such substantial battery gains after just two years? While the new 4nm SW5100 SoC helps, the secret sauce is the W5+ Gen 1’s Cortex M55 co-processor. When you’re interacting with your watch (using apps, sending messages, using a 4G LTE signal, etc.), those are all scenarios where the SW5100 kicks into gear. But if you’re not actively interacting with your watch, the co-processor now handles most everything else — including the always-on display, music, notifications, fitness tracking, sleep tracking, heart-rate monitoring, and fall detection. During these ambient times, the W5+ Gen 1 will automatically enter Qualcomm’s new Deep Sleep and Hibernate modes for drastically reduced power consumption. But when you’re ready to use an app or answer a phone call, the SW5100 SoC kicks on with all of its extra horsepower within microseconds.
A big deal for small wrists Last but certainly not least, the W5+ Gen 1 is bringing this increased performance and battery life into a chipset that’s notably smaller than the Wear 4100+. The W5+ Gen 1’s PCB (printed circuit board) is 40% smaller, the chipset is 35% smaller, and the SoC is 30% smaller. My personal favorite metric, though, is when Kedia told me he was holding the W5+ Gen 1, dropped it on the floor, and couldn’t find it back.
While we’re talking about differences in millimeters between the Wear 4100+ and W5+ Gen 1, Qualcomm says the new chip should allow for smaller-sized smartwatches than what we have today — both in terms of case size and thickness. As someone with small wrists who often struggles to find a smartwatch that doesn’t look absolutely ridiculous on me, this excites me a lot.
Why Qualcomm says this time will be different On paper, everything about the Snapdragon W5+ Gen 1 sounds incredible. It’s faster, has longer battery life, and is a much smaller chip than before. But why now? After years and years of disappointing Snapdragon Wear chips, why is Qualcomm now going all out with the W5+ Gen 1? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I asked Pankaj Kedia, and he said it essentially comes down to three main points. First, Qualcomm is able to invest more in its wearable efforts thanks to the growth of the entire wearable industry. “As the size of the market grows, we [Qualcomm] can afford bigger investment.
” Second, Kedia said that this is something Qualcomm’s customers have been asking for. “Our customers are not shy. If they like something, they tell us. If they don’t like something, they tell us in a much louder voice.” Third — and the point which Kedia said is the most important — is that a chip like the W5+ Gen 1 simply wasn’t possible before. Whether it be the 4nm SoC, the new co-processor, or the addition of machine learning, these are all things Qualcomm couldn’t do with the Wear 4100+ (or any Snapdragon Wear chip before that).
It also seems like Qualcomm learned from its mistake of the Wear 4100+’s lacking adoption. The company’s been shipping W5 chips to customers for the past six months, and 9 times out of 10, Kedia says he’ll walk to a potential customer and walk out with a design. According to Kedia, the W5 Gen 1 platform “sells itself.” And that’s evident in today’s announcement. Oppo’s confirmed it’s launching a W5 Gen 1 smartwatch in August, while Mobvoi will launch a W5+ Gen 1 wearable later in the fall. Qualcomm’s confirmed 25 upcoming wearables with W5 chips, and it plans on announcing more soon.
While we can’t make any final say on the W5 Gen 1 and W5+ Gen 1 until we’ve actually used them, I’m more optimistic about the future of Qualcomm’s wearable division — and Wear OS by extension — than I’ve been in years. And it seems like Kedia is too. The W5 Gen 1 is “not just a chipset announcement,” he told me. Instead, it’s something that’ll “change the momentum in the industry.” Editors' Recommendations Google and Qualcomm are changing Wear OS smartwatches forever Qualcomm’s new Snapdragon 7+ Gen 2 is big news for cheap phones Qualcomm’s Snapdragon X35 will bring 5G to your next smartwatch Using the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 showed me that 2023 phones will be monsters Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 6 and 4 Gen 1 chips are big deals for cheap phones Qualcomm Tech News Wearables Mobile Oppo has just announced its promised duo of smartwatches featuring Qualcomm’s latest Snapdragon W5 Gen 1 chip — the first wearables to adopt the new platform since Qualcomm announced it last month.
The new Oppo Watch models build on last year’s Oppo Watch 2. However, neither is a direct successor to that earlier model. Instead, it looks like Oppo has split the difference, with the Oppo Watch 3 moving the specs down a notch to make room for a new Oppo Watch 3 Pro on the higher end.
Mobile Qualcomm has announced the dates for the Snapdragon Summit 2022. As rumored, the event will take place earlier than its usual timeline in November. It will run from November 15 to November 17. At the Summit, Qualcomm will showcase its latest and greatest innovations for the year ahead, along with its flagship chipset. Last year, it was the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chipset that made headlines with the new naming scheme. As such, it's likely that Qualcomm will follow the line to name the next processor as Snapdragon 8 Gen 2.
The tech giant revealed the information on its official website with a brief clip. The video proclaims that its viewers should get ready for the next wave of tech at Qualcomm’s biggest showcase of the year. COVID-19 didn’t allow for in-person events in 2020, but just like last year, the Snapdragon Summit is returning to Hawaii for 2022. While we don’t have the lineup of the products expected at the event, it’s certain that we will see the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2.
Mobile Mobvoi will use the new Qualcomm Snapdragon W5+ Gen 1 processor in a forthcoming smartwatch. It’s one of just a few brands to officially announce it will adopt Qualcomm’s new chip, which was itself only announced on July 19, but Movoi has stopped short of providing masses of details on the device it will be housed within.
What do we know? Only what Mobvoi has told us at this stage, which is the Snapdragon W5+ Gen 1 chip will be used in a new TicWatch model, and that it will make it the most powerful smartwatch Mobvoi has released yet. The teaser image above shows a circular smartwatch with a ridged bezel, but gives nothing about the hardware away. The company’s Vice President of Engineering, Robert Zhang, had this to say: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
