Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 Classic review: A first-rate smartwatch By Andy Boxall Close $349.99 Cohesive, mature design Rotating bezel is intuitive One Watch UI is neat and logical Comprehensive health tracking Choice of style and size Battery doesn't last two full days Wear OS 3 software lacks polish Too large to wear at night Does the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 Classic have what it takes to top our list of the best Android smartwatches ? After all, its predecessor, the Galaxy Watch 3 , has done so since its release, meaning we have high expectations. Making the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic’s already hard job even tougher is that it also has to introduce us to a new operating system at the same time as wowing us with its hardware.
Design Software Health tracking Performance, battery life, and charging Price and availability Our take Just by looking at the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic, it’s obvious Samsung has done its job on the design, but what about the new Wear OS 3 software? There’s a lot to go through here, but don’t worry, this is a feature-packed smartwatch worthy of both your attention and your money.
Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals: How to get the phone for free Best Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra deals: How to get the phone for free Design At first glance, the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic doesn’t look that different from the Galaxy Watch 3, but examine it more closely and there are subtle refinements that give the new model a more cohesive, mature, and watch-like style. The stainless steel case itself comes in either 42mm or 46mm sizes, and I am wearing the 46mm model on my 6.5-inch wrist. It weighs 52 grams without the strap.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The ridges on the bezel are smaller and more tightly packed than on the Galaxy Watch 3, the chronograph markings are more subtle, and the lugs flow more directly from the case itself. It’s this, along with the strap and the buttons, that marks the largest design change. The buttons are oblong, more flush to the case, and therefore are less noticeable, but still separated by a button guard for a clean look.
The strap changes the watch the most, due to the ends matching the curve of the case and flowing lines of the lugs. It works really well, making the strap appear to be an integral part of the watch case, plus the shape stops it from bending too far in either direction, helping it sit better on your wrist. Technically it’s a small design change, but an inspired one that really boosts the watch’s comfort and visual appeal. However, if you change the strap for a non-Samsung version, you’ll lose this benefit.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends At 52 grams, the Watch 4 Classic is quite heavy, and you are almost always aware of it on your wrist. This stopped me wearing it overnight for sleep tracking — it was just too noticeable and I found it distracting while trying to fall asleep. The 42mm version isn’t much lighter at 47 grams, and both are significantly heavier than the 37-gram, aluminum-bodied 44mm Apple Watch Series 6.
Despite this, I haven’t found the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic fatiguing to wear during the day, and I really love the balanced, classy, and distinctive design.
Software The hardware is excellent, but the big change with the Watch 4 is the software. Gone is Samsung’s Tizen from the Galaxy Watch 3, and in comes the joint Google and Samsung platform called Wear OS 3, or simply Wear. Tizen was always the better piece of software compared to old Wear OS, and it made the Galaxy Watch 3 our top Android smartwatch recommendation due to its ease of use, design, and reliability. The concern with the new software for me was, how much of Tizen remains, or has Wear overtaken it completely? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / .
The good news is Tizen’s superior design and usability remains through Samsung’s One Watch UI.
 Wear OS 3 lets companies use a custom user interface, avoiding all new watches looking basically the same as each other. The Galaxy Watch 4 Classic has a rotating bezel that helps greatly with navigation. You turn it to the left to view notifications and to the right to see Tiles. Swipe up on the touchscreen to find the app menu, and down for quick settings, then use the bezel to scroll left and right through all the options presented. It’s fluid, natural, fast, and surprisingly enjoyable. The rotating bezel has a very precise action with lovely dampening, and a neat “notchy” feel as it turns.
You should spend a few moments digging through the settings to personalize the way your watch works, as raise to wake isn’t activated by default, meaning you have to tap the screen or turn the bezel to wake the display. This is annoying when an app is running and the screen times out. An always-on screen can be switched on, so the watch always shows the time. There are a lot of watch faces to choose from, ranging from the very simple to the very cute, and all have custom ambient modes.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It all feels very similar to Tizen on the Galaxy Watch 3 at first, but Wear uses a clearer font that, when paired with the pin-sharp screen — a 1.4-inch 450 x 450 pixel Super AMOLED on the 46mm, or a 1.2-inch 396 x 396 pixel Super AMOLED on the 42mm — makes everything easy to read. I never need to squint at the screen, and the choice of font is more mature than Tizen’s. The most obvious change happens when you swipe up on the screen and find a list of apps that includes the Google Play Store.
Android apps for Wear OS work on the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic, unlike on the Tizen-powered Galaxy Watch 3, and that includes Google apps missing from old Samsung watches like Google Maps, Google Fit, and Google Pay.
Google Pay works normally and you can select either it or Samsung Pay as the default contactless payment system under the NFC setting. Google Fit works alongside Samsung Health, but it’s not immediately obvious how, or if, it can be set as the default.
There are times where Wear OS 3 shows it is still a work in progress, but a small software update arrived during my review that also showed Google and Samsung are working to fix any issues. Initially, Google Maps loaded as usual, but it was hit-or-miss whether you could scroll around the map on the screen, and routes only showed in text form. Both these problems were fixed after the update. However, some apps are still shaky, with Spotify often timing out, leaving me staring at a spinning progress indicator.
Previous Next 1 6 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Match the watch face to the Galaxy Z Flip 3's Cover Screen.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Galaxy Watch 4 Classic (left) and Galaxy Watch 3 (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Many apps are available through Google Play, including common examples like Spotify and Outlook, but not YouTube Music or Uber. It doesn’t appear Google Assistant is available either as an app to install or as an onboard alternative to Bixby. Notifications are pretty and interactive when they do turn up, but there’s no guarantee of arrival, a problem from the old Wear OS that has sadly carried over into new Wear. However, notifications are grouped together in Tiles, are properly formatted, easy to read, and when you dismiss one on the watch, it disappears on your phone.
On a day-to-day basis, so far, the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic with Wear OS 3 has been excellent, although it is an unusual mashup of Wear OS and Tizen. You get the good looks and the sensible navigation provided by One Watch UI and the rotating bezel, plus the frustration of unreliable notifications and apps that don’t quite work properly all the time from Wear OS, along with plenty of duplicate services. Because Wear will look different on other smartwatches running the software (when they arrive), much of what makes it work well here may come down to Samsung’s One Watch UI, but we won’t know for sure until a challenger arrives in the future.
Health tracking The health and fitness tracking on the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic is comprehensive, detailed, easy to use, and packed with features. The Samsung BioActive sensor is the standout new hardware addition to the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic. The 3-in-1 sensor incorporates a Bio-Electrical Impedance (BIA) sensor, an Electrocardiogram (ECG), and a PPG heart rate sensor, all powered by new software algorithms.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The BIA enables a body composition measurement showing weight, muscle, fat mass, body fat, Body Mass Index (BMI), body water, and Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) stats. Data like this has previously only been found on some smart scales, and is helpful in understanding weight loss better, as well as seeing the effect continued training has on your body. It takes 15 seconds to perform and all it needs is your weight and height, but is not suitable for those with pacemakers due to it using a small electrical current to take a measurement.
It’s typical of many high-tech health features on a wearable in that it provides lots of stats, but no real information on what they mean and what you can do to change them. The data itself has a lot of variability and results depend on the time of day, when you last ate, and a whole lot more. It’s hard to establish accuracy this way. It’s likely only helpful if you can compare the results with another device with a body composition measurement, and even then, you will need to do your own research in order to know what to do with the data.
Taking a Body Composition reading on the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends To use the ECG, a separate app has to be installed on your phone, which takes 30 seconds to complete, and it only advises on atrial fibrillation. The app shows an option to measure blood pressure, but this feature is not active on the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic in the U.K.. On the watch, you also get a stress measurement, SpO2 blood oxygen monitor, heart rate, and a women’s health tracker, plus Tiles to manually input daily water and food intake.
The Galaxy Watch 4 Classic is a very strong fitness companion, with all the sensors you need.
Workouts are started quickly with Samsung Health through a Tile, plus you can add Google Fit Tiles to the watch, along with a handy overview of your main stats. I tracked various workouts including those with GPS. The measurements were in line with those I got from an Apple Watch Series 6 linked to an iPhone 12 Pro. The workout mode’s autopause feature is notable for its zealousness, and always paused even when I just stopped to take a photo, then resumed when I restarted.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Samsung Health app presents its data neatly, and there’s enough information for the casual fitness fan, including all the data gathered from the body composition tests, plus heart rate, stress, sleep tracking, step count, and historical exercise tracking data. I didn’t feel the need to swap from Samsung Health to Google Fit, indicating it provides a similar level of information and usefulness. The Galaxy Watch 4 Classic is a very strong fitness companion, with all the sensors you need (plus some you probably won’t need very often), accurate data collection, and a well-presented app.
Performance, battery life, and charging The Galaxy Watch 4 Classic uses the new dual-core, 1.18GHz Samsung Exynos W920 processor with 1.5GB RAM. It has not disappointed, with more than enough energy to keep the operating system moving along swiftly. Wi-Fi range is quite short though, and the watch doesn’t always maintain the connection or automatically activate it, such as when you open Google Play. I’ve had to manually connect to Wi-Fi to kickstart some apps, but this may change with another software update. Using Bluetooth headphones is easy and, provided they are already paired with your phone, the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic doesn’t require them to be paired for a second time.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The 46mm Galaxy Watch 4 Classic has a 361mAh battery inside and, so far, after a week of using the watch, it lasts for two working days with a single workout tracked and the always-on screen active, provided you turn it off overnight. It doesn’t have the guts to last two full days when showing the always-on time, and certainly not if you also use sleep tracking and track a workout.
There is a power-saving mode that activates when the watch reaches about 10% battery remaining. It adds another couple of hours of use by turning off nonessential features like the always-on screen. Charging is performed using a supplied magnetic charging disc, and it takes about 80 minutes to go from 10% to full. The display helpfully shows an estimation of how long a full charge will take.
Price and availability The Galaxy Watch 4 Classic starts at $349, in black or silver, and will be released on August 27. The 42mm model is the cheapest, while the 46mm is $379. Add 4G LTE and the price climbs to $399 for the 42mm or $429 for the 46mm version. Buy through Samsung’s online store and you can customize the watch with different straps.
Our take The Galaxy Watch 3 is a tough act to follow, and any new operating system is always going to be hard to implement perfectly the first time, but Samsung has successfully navigated around any issues and delivered a superb follow-up to what was the best smartwatch for Android phones from the last year. The Galaxy Watch 4 Classic expertly mixes a smart design with extensive health-tracking ability, and offers it in not only two different styles, but various sizes as well. It is absolutely worth your money.
Samsung’s use of One Watch UI is key to the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic’s usability, as the interface is slick, logical, and fast. It’s fun to use due to the rotating bezel, and the smartwatch’s comfort and toughness mean you can wear it all day long without a problem. I did find it too large to wear overnight, and would like the battery to provide two full days of use, but these are not issues exclusive to the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic.
Wear OS 3 shows plenty of promise, but it’s disappointing to still see the old problems of not all notifications arriving and not all apps being available or always working properly on the watch. It’s better than before due to One Watch UI, but still not as reliable or as app-packed as Apple’s WatchOS. However, due to its newness, it shouldn’t be judged too harshly just yet. Where does this leave the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic? Samsung has definitely made a superb successor to the Watch 3.
Is there a better alternative? If you own an iPhone, the Apple Watch Series 6 or Apple Watch SE are still the smartwatches to buy. They integrate perfectly with your phone, while others miss out on certain features, and WatchOS is fast and logically laid out. Apple Health is great, and the battery will last you a couple of days.
If you have an Android phone, the Galaxy Watch 4 and Galaxy Watch 4 Classic are the only two with the latest Wear OS 3 software, and that may end up being crucial for speedy updates over the next year.
Mobvoi’s TicWatch Pro 3 and TicWatch E3 are scheduled to get Wear OS 3 this time next year, and although both are still good choices today, Samsung’s watches are a better bet as you get the new software without an extensive wait.
It’s Samsung that offers the Watch 4 Classic’s biggest challenger. The Galaxy Watch 4 has all the same features and performance as the Watch 4 Classic, with a different design and a touch-sensitive bezel. It’s cheaper as well, and your preference will likely come down to which design you like better.
How long will it last? The Galaxy Watch 4 Classic’s case is water-resistant to 5ATM and has an IP68 rating, plus it meets the MIL-STD-810G toughness standards. The strap on my review model is made of thick rubber, and feels very hard-wearing. The Wear OS 3 software is right up to date now, and will likely continue to be ahead of the competition for some time, due to no other smartwatches with the software being available yet. There’s a 4G LTE option for anyone wanting to add cellular connectivity using an eSIM. The Galaxy Watch 4 Classic will last for two years at the minimum.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Galaxy Watch 4 Classic’s design and on-wrist comfort is top-notch, there are tons of health-tracking features, and performance is excellent. It’s a great smartwatch to buy.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Best Apple Watch Deals: Put the smartwatch on your wrist from just $129 Best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals: Get the foldable for free The Samsung Galaxy S24 just leaked with a few big surprises Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 deals: Save big on the foldable Android Wearables Product Reviews Samsung Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile It's not Samsung's latest flagship smartphone, but the Samsung Galaxy S22 is still a great mobile device, especially if you can get it with a discount from your preferred retailer. If you're looking to save big on phone deals and you don't mind going for a previous-generation model, then you should check out these offers for the Samsung Galaxy S22. They may change or disappear entirely at any moment though, so you're going to have to make your purchase quickly if something catches your eye.
Samsung Galaxy S22 deals at Samsung Samsung will be the first place to go to if you're looking for discounts on the Samsung Galaxy S22. The unlocked version of the 128GB model is still going for its retail price of $700, but you can get up to $635 off by trading in your current smartphone. You can get this variant of the Samsung Galaxy S22 for just $550 for savings of $150, but only if you purchase it for use on the Verizon network.
Mobile Samsung is one of the most recognizable names in modern smartphones. It has a well-deserved reputation for offering an expansive lineup of great phones with something for just about everyone. This means if you're looking for an Android phone, you'll easily find a Samsung model that's worth considering based on your needs and budget. In fact, the number of choices can be a bit overwhelming, but the good news is that we've explored the entire range and highlighted the best Samsung smartphones you can buy in 2023.
Like its predecessor, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra gets the nod for the best overall Samsung phone, and that's not just because it's Samsung's premium flagship device. Sure, it's the most expensive phone in the lineup, but you're getting some incredible bang for your buck with its large and gorgeous display, excellent cameras, and a new processor that offers unprecedented levels of performance. And if you're looking for something more unique, more pocketable, or more affordable, you'll find a lot of other great options on our list in every category, with links to detailed reviews for each.
Mobile IF THE SAMSUNG Z FLIP 5 SURVIVES… I'll Switch.
Samsung’s new Galaxy Z Flip 5 foldable phone has been put through its paces in a particularly brutal durability test.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
