Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Reviews The first Lexus EV brims over with luxury, but can’t go the distance By Stephen Edelstein Close $67,245.00 Better looking than other Lexus SUVs Solid infotainment system Luxurious driving experience Lackluster range Mediocre charging performance As the luxury brand of Toyota, Lexus has been a pioneer of hybrids. It was the first luxury brand to introduce a hybrid, launching an electric-assisted version of its popular RX crossover SUV in 2005. But times change.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car Having a lineup full of hybrids is no longer good enough. Lexus may have been able to ignore the popularity of Tesla among luxury-car shoppers, even as its rivals scramble to compete with the upstart automaker, but it can’t ignore stricter emissions rules. So while its signature hybrids will remain, Lexus is finally launching an EV.
Acura’s resurrected ZDX SUV is an EV shortcut Ford EV drivers can use 12,000 Tesla Superchargers starting in 2024 Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech The 2023 Lexus RZ 450e — or RZ for short — is the luxury brand’s first EV for North America and the first globally designed from the ground up as an EV. Like many of the best-selling Lexus models, the RZ is based on a Toyota, in this case the bZ4X , but looks different inside and out, and carries a price premium. Pricing starts at a steep $59,650 for the base Premium model. We drove the higher-level Luxury model, which rang up at $67,245 with options.
Design and interior Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The RZ shares the Toyota e-TNGA platform with the aforementioned bZ4X (and the Subaru Solterra), as well as the same basic crossover SUV shape, but it’s unmistakably a Lexus. And while Lexus’ alien-looking styling cues may not be for everyone, this is one of the best executions so far.
Instead of slapping on a fake grille, designers used the headlights and surrounding trim pieces to create the outline of Lexus’ trademark “spindle grille,” keeping the family resemblance going in a more creative way. The front fenders flare out like a race car’s, while a creased element just below the window line blends them nicely into the doors. In contrast to the bZ4X, where weirdness seemed to take priority over style, the RZ is an improvement over Lexus’ gasoline crossover SUVs.
The RZ is an improvement over Lexus’ gasoline crossover SUVs.
Just as the bZ4X was designed with a footprint similar to the popular gasoline Toyota RAV4 , the RZ is close in size to that model’s Lexus equivalent, the NX. That also gives the RZ a similar footprint to the Tesla Model Y, and it offers comparable first-row and second-row headroom as well. The Tesla has a slight advantage in legroom, though, and offers significantly more cargo space than the Lexus’ 23.7 cubic feet with the rear seats up and 47.9 cubic feet with the rear seats folded. Lexus doesn’t offer a frunk, either, opting to use the space under the hood to package mechanical components.
The interior is a nice place to be, with a level of thoughtfulness you don’t normally see in entry-level luxury cars. Lexus thankfully ditched the bZ4X’s blocky dashboard for a conventional design that nicely integrates the touchscreen and digital instrument cluster. The RZ doesn’t have a glovebox (the space is used for an efficiency-boosting radiant heater) but Lexus designers did a better job on the replacement storage nook, which doesn’t let items rattle around as in the bZ4X. Befitting a Lexus, interior materials were also notably more upscale. Our test car had snazzy blue suede upholstery with white leatherette trim, with an illuminated fish-scale pattern projected onto the door panels at night. And instead of the normal panoramic glass roof, the RZ’s roof can go from transparent to opaque at the push of a button.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Lexus had one of the worst infotainment systems in the business, but recent models have received a major upgrade. First launched on the NX, the Lexus Interface system replaced the cumbersome Remote Touch Interface touchpad controller with a more conventional interface that relies on the touchscreen, plus natural language voice recognition similar to what BMW and Mercedes-Benz have been offering for some time.
In the RZ, Lexus Interface runs on a 14.0-inch touchscreen, paired with a digital instrument cluster of indeterminate size and an optional 10.0-inch head-up display. Wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are standard, along with Wi-Fi, wireless device charging, five USB-C ports, and a cloud-based navigation system that incorporates Google points of interest. Digital key functionality and a 13-speaker Mark Levinson audio system are optional.
As with the exterior and interior design, Lexus put its best foot forward here. Just having voice recognition that can recognize casual speech is a big deal. You can switch radio stations or adjust the temperature without having to touch anything, just like in its German peers. The on-screen text is easy to read thanks to an uncluttered arrangement that takes full advantage of the screen’s size, but you still get buttons and knobs for important functions like audio volume, temperature, and camera view.
Lexus put its best foot forward with the infotainment system.
Lexus included some neat smaller touches as well. The climate-control knobs show the temperature on little displays (actually part of the touchscreen, which they’re mounted to), and manipulating the steering-wheel controls brings up a menu on the head-up display, limiting the need to look down at the instrument cluster or to the side at the touchscreen. That’s good, as we found the RZ’s driver-attention monitor to be a bit oversensitive. That, and drive-mode controls buried in a touchscreen submenu, are the only real complaints.
The typical array of driver-assist features is standard equipment, including adaptive cruise control, lane departure warning, lane keep assist, forward collision warning, automatic emergency braking (including oncoming vehicle detection), blind spot monitoring, rear cross-traffic alert, and traffic sign recognition. Proactive Driving Assist will also gently apply the brakes when it thinks you aren’t following a curve, or are getting too close to another vehicle or cyclist.
Front cross-traffic alert and a park assist system that can help maneuver the RZ in and out of perpendicular and parallel spaces are optional, as is Traffic Jam Assist. This subscription-based feature lets the car automatically creep forward in stop-and-go traffic. Blessed with a traffic-free week of driving, we didn’t have an opportunity to try it out.
Driving experience Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The sole available battery pack matches the 71.4-kilowatt-hour capacity of the single-motor Toyota bZ4X, but the Lexus is available only with a dual-motor all-wheel drive powertrain, badged Direct4 by Lexus. The RZ is also more powerful than the dual-motor bZ4X. At 308 horsepower and 320 pound-feet of torque, it makes 94 hp and 72 lb-ft of torque more than the Toyota.
That added grunt allows for a Lexus-estimated zero-to-60 mph time of 5.0 seconds, making the RZ 1.5 seconds quicker than its Toyota cousin. But for similar money, you could have a Tesla Model Y Performance that hustles from zero to 60 mph in 3.5 seconds.
The one truly disappointing thing about the RZ is its range.
The RZ is still pretty quick, though, and it eschews Tesla-like theatrics for smooth acceleration that gets you up to speed without bruising any organs. Because while Lexus has built a few performance cars , the RZ seems more in line with the brand’s traditional emphasis on comfort, quiet, and luxury. The excellent chassis tuning of the bZ4X carries over, but the RZ does an even better job of absorbing bumps and silencing outside noises. The Direct4 all-wheel drive system adjusts the flow of power to the front or rear axles not only to aid traction but also to control pitch and dive, keeping the body level and reducing harsh motion.
Lexus also devised a dedicated system to blend regenerative braking with conventional hydraulic brakes for a smooth feel. While it does accomplish that, the RZ doesn’t allow for one-pedal driving, so you’ll always be using the brake pedal to some extent. The RZ does make up for that to some extent with a regeneration boost triggered by a paddle shifter, temporarily increasing deceleration in a manner similar to downshifting in a manual-transmission car.
Range, charging, and safety Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends The one truly disappointing thing about the RZ is its range. Models with the standard 18-inch wheels are rated at 220 miles per charge. That drops to just 196 miles with the optional 20-inch wheels. That doesn’t really cut it when a base Tesla Model Y offers 304 miles of range. A base Audi Q4 e-tron can go 265 miles on a charge, the Genesis GV60 is rated at 248 miles in its longest-range form, and the Mercedes-Benz EQB maxes out at 243 miles. It’s a reminder that this is an early effort, and Lexus hasn’t mastered EV efficiency. We saw 2.9 miles per kWh after a week of driving, while a car like the Model Y is closer to 4.0.
Lexus doesn’t make up for this lackluster range with fast charging, either. The RZ can only DC fast charge at 150 kilowatts, which can complete an 80% charge in 30 minutes in ideal conditions, according to Lexus. A full recharge using a Level 2 AC charger takes nine hours. This is average performance for an EV, but in the RZ you won’t be able to go as far after each charging session.
We don’t yet know if the RZ will have an advantage over other EVs in safety, as crash-test ratings from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) haven’t been published yet.
Warranty coverage is the same as other Lexus models, including a four-year, 50,000-mile, basic warranty, six-year, 70,000-mile, powertrain warranty, and an eight-year, 100,000-mile warranty for the battery pack and related components.
How DT would configure this car Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Checking every box for tech requires upgrading from the base Premium grade to the RZ 450e Luxury. The head-up display, park assist, and digital key are available as options on the Premium, but the high-end audio system, Traffic Jam Assist, and front cross-traffic alert are only available on the Luxury model. That’s just as well. While the Premium seems a bit pricey for a base model, the Luxury’s near-$70,000 sticker price is pretty much the norm for a well-equipped luxury SUV.
The RZ is a well-executed luxury SUV, too, hiding its Toyota DNA with distinctive styling, a plush interior, and graceful driving dynamics. However, it’s only a second-rate EV, falling short of rivals like the Audi Q4 e-tron, Genesis GV60, Mercedes-Benz EQB , and Tesla Model Y in range and charging performance. Keep in mind that the Volvo XC40 Recharge is in line for a refresh for the 2024 model year as well. The RZ also overlaps with the larger Cadillac Lyriq in price, but with deliveries proceeding slowly, it’s unclear when you will actually be able to get one.
Like the Lyriq, the RZ is one of the best products its maker has put on sale recently — electric or otherwise. It just isn’t the best choice for a road trip. For commuting, around-town driving, or as a second car, though, it’s a solid choice.
Editors' Recommendations Lanzador concept previews Lamborghini’s first EV Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV Mercedes-Maybach EQS SUV is old-school luxury — electrified GM plans to phase out Apple CarPlay for EVs, go all-in on Android integration 2023 Kia Niro EV first drive review: Practical doesn’t have to bore you to tears Car Reviews Product Reviews Cars Mercedes-Benz is continuing to expand its EV lineup, this time with a model aimed at (wealthy) families.
As the name states, the 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQS SUV is an SUV derivative of the EQS sedan. With the EQS sedan positioned as the electric analog to the Mercedes S-Class, the EQS SUV is the electric version of the GLS-Class. And like that vehicle, the EQS SUV is available with up to seven seats across three rows.
That makes the EQS SUV an important vehicle not just for Mercedes, but for the cause of EV adoption in general. While the Tesla Model X and Rivian R1S also offer three rows for family-hauling duty, there’s a lot more room in the market for another entry. Given the popularity of equivalent gasoline luxury SUVs like the GLS, Land Rover Range Rover, and Cadillac Escalade, the EQS SUV arrives not a moment too soon.
The EQS SUV is scheduled to reach U.S. dealerships this fall in three guises. The base rear-wheel-drive EQS 450+ starts at $105,550 with destination, while the all-wheel drive EQS 450 4Matic and EQS 580 4Matic start at $108,550 and $127,100, respectively. Although it will be built in Alabama, the EQS SUV won’t qualify for the revised federal EV tax credit because it exceeds the $80,000 price cap for SUVs.
Design and interior A defining feature of Mercedes’ EQ lineup is aerodynamic bodywork aimed at maximizing range. The typical SUV is not aerodynamically ideal, but Mercedes managed to achieve an impressively low drag coefficient for an SUV — at 0.26, it’s close to the Toyota Prius. But function clearly took precedence over form. Mercedes deserves credit for not going in the polarizing direction BMW did with its two-row iX SUV, but the EQS SUV looks like a melting scoop of ice cream.
More disappointing is the third row, which should be the EQS SUV’s defining feature, but seems more like a useless afterthought. Adults will find it difficult to insert themselves into the third-row seats, let alone tolerate riding in them. As in most three-row vehicles, the rear seats also pretty much eliminate cargo space. And if you want to fold them down to create more cargo room, you’ll have to do it manually as Mercedes didn’t include a power-folding system — a bit disappointing for a six-figure car. The EQS SUV also lacks a frunk; like the EQS sedan, the hood is sealed.
The EQS SUV looks like a melting scoop of ice cream.
Cars Mercedes-Benz wants its EQ sub-brand to be an all-electric counterpart to its current lineup of gasoline luxury cars, and it’s working toward that goal by starting at opposite ends of the price spectrum and working toward the middle.
Where the EQS sedan and SUV are the flagships of the lineup, and the EQB serves as an entry-level offering, the 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQE sedan aims for the middle of the market. It’s pitched as an electric equivalent of the Mercedes E-Class, one of the automaker’s bread-and-butter models. And like the E-Class, the EQE will compete against sedans from Mercedes’ German rivals, such as the Audi e-tron GT, BMW i4, and Porsche Taycan. It will likely be cross-shopped against the Genesis Electrified G80, Lucid Air, and Tesla Model S as well.
The EQE sedan arrives at U.S. dealerships in late 2022 in four guises: base rear-wheel drive EQE 350+, all-wheel drive EQE 350 4Matic and EQE 500 4Matic, and an AMG EQE performance version. Mercedes hasn’t disclosed pricing for any of these models, but the EQE 350 4Matic we tested for this first drive will likely be a mid-tier trim level. Like its EQS sibling, the EQE will also get an SUV variant, which will launch sometime after the sedan version.
Design and interior The EQE has the same lozenge-like shape as the EQS sedan, which is dictated by aerodynamics. The appeal of the design is up for debate, but the smooth shape reduces aerodynamic drag, which helps improve efficiency and range. Under the skin, the EQE is also based on the same EVA2 architecture as the EQS sedan.
But while the two EQ sedans look similar at first glance, the EQE is a bit smaller than its sibling. It’s 10.6 inches shorter than the EQS sedan, with a 3.5-inch shorter wheelbase. Rear-seat passengers might notice the difference, but like its gasoline E-Class counterpart, the EQE is aimed more at drivers than passengers. Its tidier proportions were also a bit more pleasing to our eyes, making the EQE look sleeker than its sibling.
The interior design is minimalist while still maintaining functionality.
Cars Mercedes-Benz aims to go all-electric in at least some markets by 2030 but to do that it will need to launch electric equivalents of each of its many gasoline-powered models. The 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQB fits that description to the letter.
Where the EQS sedan aims to fill a similar role to the S-Class without directly copying it, the EQB is literally an electric version of an existing Mercedes crossover SUV — the GLB-Class. It uses the same body shell as the GLB, even retaining that model’s optional third-row seats.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
