Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 review: Android smartwatch perfection By Joe Maring Close $300.00 Very comfortable design Colorful and bright display Smaller bezels are lovely Samsung Health keeps getting better Good, reliable performance Much-improved battery life Still a great value Wear OS still has its issues Slightly more expensive Small year-over-year upgrades aren’t anything new in the mobile tech space, and the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 is the latest device to join the iterative update train. Compared side by side with its predecessor, it looks virtually identical — and the feature set is eerily similar, too.
About our Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 review Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: design and hardware Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: display Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: health tracking Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: performance and software Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: battery life Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: price and availability Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: verdict Considering that, I wouldn’t blame you for thinking the Galaxy Watch 6 is a boring upgrade, one that’s not worth your time or attention. But to do so would be to ignore what is an excellent smartwatch through and through. The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 may not be the most jaw-dropping release of the year, but if you’re in the market for an Android smartwatch that has a comfortable design, reliable battery life, and a powerful health-tracking suite, you’ll be hard-pressed to do better than this.
Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more Samsung just did something strange to its newest Android phone Samsung just announced another new phone (and two Android tablets) About our Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 review This review of the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 was written by me (Joe Maring) after wearing the 44mm model of the Galaxy Watch 6 for over a week in the U.S. It was originally published on August 9, 2023. The Galaxy Watch 6 was connected to a Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 throughout the entire review period.
The review was updated on August 14 to mention that the Galaxy Watch 6 is now available for immediate purchase.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: design and hardware Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 keeps the same general shape and design of last year’s Galaxy Watch 5 — which also looked virtually identical to the Galaxy Watch 4 from 2021. The Galaxy Watch 6 comes in your choice of two case sizes, either 40mm or 44mm. I’ve been wearing the 44mm model during my review in the graphite (aka black) color, which is available for both sizes. You can also get a silver finish in the same 44mm style, while the 40mm Watch 6 gets a new gold color.
As much as I’d like to see Samsung flex its design chops more with future generations, it’s difficult to find any real complaints about the design the company appears to have settled on. It’s simple, comfortable, and just about perfect for what it is.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Galaxy Watch 6 has been a pleasure to wear on my wrist since the moment I strapped it on. Not once have I found it too heavy or bulky, as even in the larger 44mm size, I think it looks great on my small wrist. I also find the included silicon band to be very comfortable, and it’s now easier to swap with a different one, thanks to Samsung’s new “one-click” design.
Just press and hold a button near the base of the band, pull it off, and that’s it. The one-click system is present on all of Samsung’s new watch bands, and if nothing there catches your fancy, you can still use any standard 20mm band you’d like — making it dead simple to find a Galaxy Watch 6 band you’ll love.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: display Previous Next 1 2 Galaxy Watch 6 Joe Maring / Digital Trends Galaxy Watch 5 Joe Maring/Digital Trends The Galaxy Watch 6 uses a Super AMOLED panel for its display, though the size and resolution change depending on which size you choose. The 40mm model has a 1.3-inch 432 x 432 screen, while the 44mm one has a 1.5-inch 480 x 480 screen.
That’s an increase of 0.1 inches for both models compared to the Galaxy Watch 5, and Samsung achieved this by significantly shrinking the bezels around the display. That doesn’t sound like a huge change on paper, but when dealing with a display this tiny, it makes a pretty noticeable difference in day-to-day use.
You see basically the same amount of content on the screen at any given time, but apps, watch faces, and other elements get to stretch out to fill almost the entire front of the Galaxy Watch 6. It looks very futuristic — especially compared to the Google Pixel Watch and its gargantuan bezels.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends There’s another big upgrade this year, and that’s the jump from 1,000 nits of brightness on the Watch 5 to 2,000 nits on the Galaxy Watch 6. It’s been very sunny in Southwest Michigan while I’ve been wearing the Watch 6, and not once have I found the display difficult to see — even with the harsh July sunshine bearing down on it. From checking notifications outside to quickly glancing at workout stats, it’s been an incredible upgrade to have.
Lastly, just like the Watch 5 and Watch 4 before it, you can still swipe around the edge of the Galaxy Watch 6’s display to scroll through notifications, apps, etc. While not as magical as the rotating crown on the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic , it’s worked well on the Watch 6 — noticeably better than the janky performance I had on the Galaxy Watch 5 last year.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: health tracking Joe Maring / Digital Trends Samsung didn’t make any drastic health-tracking upgrades to the Galaxy Watch 6, but considering how robust the existing tools are, that’s hardly a bad thing. Similar to the Apple Watch, your main activity tracking is scored by closing three rings each day — including your steps, active time, and active calories. It’s not the most original idea, but it’s clean, simple, and very easy to follow.
Samsung’s Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis (BIA) sensor returns this year, allowing you to do a full body composition scan that reveals your skeletal muscle, fat mass, body water, body fat, body mass index (BMI), and basal metabolic rate (BMR) within seconds. It’s amazing being able to get so much extra data about your body at any given time, though I still wish Samsung did a better job of telling you what these numbers mean. The Samsung Health app neatly presents this data and shows how it changes over time, but it doesn’t provide any context or explanation beyond that.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Also returning is the temperature sensor that was introduced on the Galaxy Watch 5. Unlike last year, though, you don’t have to wait months to do anything with it! Right out of the box, the Galaxy Watch 6 uses the sensor to automatically measure your skin temperature while you sleep. Again, the data could be explained better, but it’s great having it working from day one.
The rest of the health suite is expected, but it has everything you could ask for: 24/7 heart-rate monitoring 90-plus exercise modes Automatic workout detection Stress monitoring Cycle tracking SpO2 (blood oxygen) tracking ECG app In addition to all of that, there are a couple of new health features debuting on the Galaxy Watch 6: Advanced Sleep Coaching and Personalized Heart Rate Zones. The sleep-tracking experience is largely the same as it’s been for a couple of years, though Samsung now displays your sleep data much more clearly on the Galaxy Watch 6. You can also now access Sleep Coaching features directly on the watch instead of needing to open the Samsung Health app on your phone.
The Personalized Heart Rate Zone feature creates custom heart rate zones for you to follow during your running workouts. It’s something that other smartwatches and fitness trackers have had for some time now, but it’s still nice to see Samsung get on the bandwagon — even if it’s a bit late to the party.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Samsung throws a lot of health features at you with the Galaxy Watch 6, and while some things could benefit from better explanations, it’s impressive how well all of it works together. Wearing the Galaxy Watch 6 alongside a Garmin Fenix 7 Pro and Apple Watch Ultra , the Galaxy Watch 6 isn’t wildly inaccurate in any of its stats compared to those other watches. The Samsung Health app can be a little daunting at first, but it’s highly customizable and has a load of data to sift through. I also appreciate that it packs all of your information into one place, unlike Apple, which still separates your health data between two apps (Apple Fitness and Apple Health).
The best part? Compared to the Oura Ring and the Fitbit platform on the Pixel Watch — both of which have recurring monthly subscriptions — Samsung Health is 100% free to use. That’s an increasingly rare thing in the health-tracking space, and it’s great that Samsung continues to offer so many tools without locking them behind a paywall.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: performance and software Joe Maring / Digital Trends Powering the Galaxy Watch 6 is Samsung’s in-house Exynos W930 dual-core processor with a clock speed of 1.4GHz. It’s a subtle upgrade over the W920 chip in the Watch 5, with Samsung’s most impressive claim being that the Galaxy Watch 6 can open applications 18% faster than before.
While I would have loved to see Samsung finally adopt Qualcomm’s Snapdragon W5 Gen 1 platform , performance on the Galaxy Watch 6 has been (mostly) reliable. Apps do open quickly, scrolling through notifications is a smooth experience, and I never feel like I’m waiting on the Watch 6 to keep up with me. It’s not as buttery smooth as the Apple Watch Series 8 (the gold standard for smartwatch performance), but it definitely gets the job done.
On the software front, the Galaxy Watch 6 is running Wear OS 4.0 with Samsung’s One UI 5.0 Watch interface layered on top. This is the first smartwatch to ship with Wear OS 4.0 and — big surprise — it’s a lot like Wear OS 3.0.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends The core user interface of the Galaxy Watch 6 is unchanged from previous versions. Swipe down from your clock face to access your Quick Settings, swipe up to view your apps, swipe right to see your notifications, and swipe left to cycle through your tiles.
Notifications have been reliable on the Galaxy Watch 6, and the vibration motor feels good and is difficult to miss (even if it doesn’t feel as nice as Apple’s Taptic Engine). You also have a lot of control over notifications, with options to reply to messages/emails with premade quick replies, emojis, or a full QWERTY keyboard (with very good autocorrect) to type whatever you want.
Unsurprisingly, apps are still fairly limited on Wear OS.
The addition of WhatsApp last month was great to see, but there are still plenty of big names missing — including Telegram, Starbucks, Delta, and others. The Apple Watch has had a significant advantage in this department for years, and that doesn’t appear to be changing any time soon.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Throughout my time with the Galaxy Watch 6, there have been two instances where things got funky. During my initial setup of the watch, it was running very slowly — even when doing something as simple as scrolling through my widgets/tiles. This went away after an hour or so once the setup process was fully complete, but it still wasn’t the best note to start on.
I also had one afternoon when the touchscreen refused to acknowledge my input. The buttons still worked, but tapping the screen did absolutely nothing. The Galaxy Watch 6 corrected itself after a minute or so, but there was no rhyme or reason for it acting up like this.
It’s also worth mentioning that Digital Trends’ Andy Boxall experienced similar performance gaffes with the Galaxy Watch 6 Classic — including one instance where the watch refused to exit sleep mode and required a full restart to do so. These could just be one-off issues with our specific review units, but Wear OS hasn’t exactly been known for flawless operation over the years. The Galaxy Watch 6 may have the latest version of Google’s smartwatch platform, but it appears to be just as randomly buggy as it’s always been.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: battery life Joe Maring / Digital Trends Battery life on last year’s Galaxy Watch 5 was disappointing, to say the least. Samsung promised 40 to 50 hours of use per charge, but in my testing, I was having to look for a charger after less than 24 hours. Despite a very subtle upgrade in battery capacity, the Galaxy Watch 6 has proven to be significantly better.
If I put the Galaxy Watch 6 on my wrist around 7 a.m. or 8 a.m., I’m easily getting to 10 p.m. or 11 p.m. that night with 60% to 70% battery still remaining. That’s with the always-on display enabled, a steady stream of notifications from my Z Flip 5, recording outdoor walks, and random tasks like checking the weather or changing my clock face.
The Galaxy Watch 6 has very good battery life.
Seven hours of sleep tracking uses about 10% of the battery, which usually lets me get late into the evening of the following day before I have to put the Galaxy Watch 6 on its charger. I was able to squeeze by with two days of use and two nights of sleep tracking on a single charge, but more likely than not, you’ll need to top-up before bed on day two if you want enough battery to track your sleep that night.
This is very good battery life, and much better than what I experienced on the Galaxy Watch 5. If you turn off features like the always-on display or automatic hear -rate tracking, you could very likely extend its endurance even more. I like that there are options to further extend the Watch 6’s battery, but I’m also glad Samsung doesn’t make you gut the experience just to get reliable battery life.
As for the charging experience, it’s the same 10-watt charging that was introduced last year. You’ll get a 30% charge after just 15 minutes and up to 45% after 30 minutes, but getting all the way up to 100% takes a little over an hour. Annoyingly, Samsung still uses the WPC standard for charging the Galaxy Watch 6, which means you have to use the proprietary sharing cable that comes in the box. Standard Qi wireless charging does not work with the Galaxy Watch 6 — even if you place it on the back of a Samsung phone like the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: price and availability Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 starts at $300 for the smaller 40mm size, or you can get the larger 44mm option (the one I reviewed) for $330. Keep in mind that those are prices for the Bluetooth/Wi-Fi variants. If you want 4G LTE connectivity, prices increase to $350 and $380, respectively. Just like the Galaxy Watch 5, the Galaxy Watch 6 is only compatible with Android phones.
If you have an iPhone, you’ll need to look elsewhere.
The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 is available for immediate purchase from Samsung.com and most major retailers — including Amazon, Best Buy, and others.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: verdict Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Joe Maring / Digital Trends I won’t beat around the bush: If you’re in the market for a smartwatch that works with your Android phone, the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 is the watch to buy. It’s that simple.
The Galaxy Watch 5 was already a fantastic wearable, and while the on-paper changes between it and the Galaxy Watch 6 appear quite small, the Watch 6 fixes almost all of the complaints I had about its predecessor. The display is bigger and brighter, the temperature sensor actually does something , and battery life is much more reliable. These changes all translate to meaningful improvements in day-to-day use, and everything that was excellent on the Watch 5 is just as lovely on the Watch 6.
Am I thrilled with the $20 price increase this year? No. But considering the changes Samsung made with this generation, it’s a well-justified increase. The Galaxy Watch 6 is also still $50 cheaper than the Google Pixel Watch and is a far better product in almost every way imaginable. And as good as the Galaxy Watch 6 Classic is — unless you need the rotating bezel or fancier design — I’d argue you’re better off saving $100 and just sticking with the regular Watch 6.
If you’re in the market for a smartwatch that works with your Android phone, the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 is the watch to buy.
Wear OS as a platform has lingering issues I’d like to see Google address, but when it comes to buying an Android smartwatch right now in 2023, there’s no other option I’d recommend more strongly than the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6. It’s not an exciting product, but it’s a damn good one, and you should absolutely buy it.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Samsung just killed one of its most important Android phones The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals: How to get the phone for free Best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals: Get the foldable for free Product Reviews Samsung Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2023 Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile The Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra is one of the hottest new phones out there. You can get a good deal on the phone if you look around a bit, with even more coming off if you're willing to sign up for a new line with a different carrier or trade in your old phone. Here's what we've found so far.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra deals at Amazon Amazon is offering a 14% discount on the 512GB version of the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, bringing the price from $1,380 to $1,180. That's a savings of $200 to get the new phone. This version of the phone is unlocked for any carrier, so you have the freedom to use whatever plan you choose with it.
Mobile Samsung flagship shoppers are apparently in for a bad surprise with Samsung’s next wave of camera-centric Galaxy S flagship phones. The folks over at SmartPrix (in collaboration with @OnLeaks) have shared purported renders of the Samsung Galaxy S24 and Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra, and there are both good and bad surprises to unpack here.
Starting on a positive note, it looks like Samsung is abandoning the cause of curved screens, years after wowing the world with the Samsung Galaxy Note Edge and continuing with its curved glass aesthetics for multiple generations. If the leaked media is anything to go by, the Galaxy S24 Ultra will serve a flat screen.
This is certainly good news for folks worried sick about ghost touches alongside the curved edges and the damage-prone nature of such a design. The curved glass exit is marked by the arrival of slimmer bezels, which are uniform on all sides. Apparently, the Galaxy S24 Ultra will have the slimmest bezels that Samsung has ever offered on a phone.
I am a sucker for curved glass aesthetics, but I would be lying if I disparage the looks of the Galaxy S24 Ultra’s impressively thin bezels. A few weeks ago, another leaker (@UniverseIce) posted a concept-based rendition of the Galaxy S24 Ultra, highlighting the fresh looks. The rest of the package, however, remains unchanged from a design perspective.
Just like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, we get flat metallic side rails with subtly rounded edges. Speculations point toward a 6.8-inch display with 2,000 nits brightness output, Qualcomm’s upcoming Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 chip inside, up to 16GB of RAM, 2TB storage, and four cameras at the back in a familiar floating lens look.
Next, we have alleged renders of the vanilla Galaxy S24. It takes the design foundations of the Samsung Galaxy S23 and gives it an unwelcome twist. I am talking about that flattened frame with sharp edges. Samsung is clearly imitating the looks that Apple introduced with the iPhone 12 Pro series (before it reversed course with the iPhone 15 Pro).
Mobile With the launch of its predecessor, it's the best time to hunt for discounts on the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4. It's not going away any time soon because it's still a very fun and capable mobile device, so there will be a lot of demand for savings when buying the foldable smartphone. We've gathered the top ways of getting the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 for cheaper than usual, but you'll have to hurry with your purchase because these offers may disappear at any moment.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 deals at Samsung The obvious source for a Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 is Samsung, which is offering trade-in credit of up to $725 for an unlocked 256GB model of the smartphone that normally costs $1,800. However, you can get it at $800 off, so you'll only have to pay $1,000, if you buy it with a U.S. Cellular plan.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 deals at Amazon The unlocked 256GB Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 is on Amazon for its retail price of $1,800, but why would you get that model when the unlocked 512GB Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 is cheaper at just $1,450, following a $470 discount on its original price of $1,920? It's a no-brainer to go for the version with the larger storage capacity when it's more affordable.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
