Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Samsung Galaxy Watch 4, Classic hands-on review: Your choice of sporty or stylish By Andy Boxall Close The Galaxy Watch 4 range gives you more smartwatch choices from Samsung than ever before. It has ended the days of the Galaxy Watch and Watch Active models being separate model lines, and brought them together under the all-new Galaxy Watch 4 name, complete with the highly anticipated Wear OS 3 and One UI Watch software onboard.
Choice matters Wearing the Galaxy Watch 4 Health tracking and software A Galaxy Watch 4 for everyone? Price and availability Samsung’s smartwatches have long been the only real competitor to the Apple Watch , but now Samsung has the chance to edge ahead of Apple, due to a comprehensive new range of health features, a lightning-fast software experience, and two tried-and-tested designs available in a range of sizes and colors. I had a chance to spend a short time with the smartwatches ahead of launch.
Choice matters There are two new smartwatches, the Galaxy Watch 4 and the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic. The Classic resembles the Galaxy Watch 3 with its rotating bezel and bulkier style, while the Galaxy Watch 4 is closer to the old Galaxy Watch Active 2 , and has a smoother, less busy, sportier design and a digital bezel.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 Classic, in two sizes.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends But the choice doesn’t stop there. Samsung also makes these two watches in two sizes — the Watch 4’s case measures 40mm or 44mm, and the Watch 4 Classic is in 42mm or 46mm. Depending on the size, the smartwatches have either a 1.2-inch, 396 x 396-pixel Super AMOLED or a 1.4-inch, 450 x 450-pixel Super AMOLED screen. Each has the same processor inside, a brand new Exynos W920 chip built using a 5nm process, with 1.5GB RAM.
The Galaxy Watch 6 Classic proves Samsung made a huge mistake in 2022 Samsung just gave us 3 big Galaxy Unpacked teasers Can the Pixel Fold’s camera beat the Galaxy Z Fold 4? I found out The minimalist Galaxy Watch 4 is made from sleek and lightweight aluminum, plus it comes in several colors including white, pink, and black. The bezel is digital and there are two buttons on the side of the case to control the software, and it’s all attached to a comfortable yet sturdy strap. The Galaxy Watch 4 Classic is made from stainless steel and has a physical rotating bezel and two buttons on the case. It comes in colors matching the new Z Fold 3 smartphone , including Phantom Green.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 in two sizes Andy Boxall/Digital Trends That’s two different styles, each in two different sizes, with multiple options for color schemes, and the ability to select a model with a 4G LTE connection using an eSIM too. Because the two Watch 4 models look suitably different there is a true choice, rather than simply offering different sizes. Best of all, both models look and feel superb, and the designs should be considered unisex too.
Wearing the Galaxy Watch 4 The Galaxy Watch 4 and Watch 4 Classic are thinner than previous versions, but it’s not something that I found instantly noticeable. The Watch 4 Classic is visually very well balanced, despite the more complex design compared to the ultra-minimalist Galaxy Watch 4. I prefer the Watch 4 Classic’s look with its button guard and distinctive bezel, but the Watch 4’s sportiness and simplicity will likely appeal to more people.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The models I tried had rubber straps — the Classic has stitched leather on top — both of which feel thick and very durable. The straps have a slightly unusual fit, as they stay flush with the underside of the lugs, resulting in the strap not gripping the top of your wrist. It didn’t affect the comfort, but I do wonder how it will affect the watch staying centered on your wrist, but this will only be known after longer testing. The buckles are also different, with the Watch 4’s strap end slipping under the main strap so it doesn’t come free when exercising, and the Watch 4 Classic having a traditional keeper instead.
On my 6.5-inch wrist, the larger of the two watches suited me better than the smaller versions. This is the same situation as I found with the Galaxy Watch 3, and with the Apple Watch Series 6 too. I really liked the beautiful combination of white and shiny aluminum for the Galaxy Watch 4, and the unusual Phantom Green Galaxy Watch 4 Classic, although the green strap is harder to coordinate with than the black version.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The performance from the new Exynos W920 chip during my brief time with the Galaxy Watch 4 and Watch 4 Classic was outstanding. It zips through the available Tiles with great speed, had no problem opening apps quickly, and I didn’t notice any lag either. It’s worth noting this was without a connection to a smartphone , so not only could I not try all features, but it may end up affecting overall speed once linked up.
Health tracking and software Regardless of which model you choose, you get 100 workout modes to track, sleep tracking with Sp02 monitoring, plus Samsung’s new Body Composition analysis tool which shows weight, muscle, fat mass, body fat, Body Mass Index (BMI), body water, and Basel Metabolic Rate (BMR) stats. Data like this has previously only been found on some smart scales, and is helpful in understanding weight loss better, and the effect of continued training on your body. It takes 15 seconds to perform and all it needs is your weight and height.
Previous Next 1 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It uses a Bio-Electrical Impedance (BIA) sensor to gather its results, which is part of the Galaxy Watch 4’s new 3-in-1 bioactive sensor array and joined by an Electrocardiogram (ECG) and a PPG heart rate sensor, all powered by new software algorithms. Each mode is found by rotating the bezel or swiping the screen through a selection of Tiles, which are all illustrated with brightly colored graphics and very clear text.
This is representative of the software in general, from the striking watch faces to the clear menu and app selector. Each watch has Wear OS 3, the new collaboration between Google and Samsung, onboard, complete with Samsung’s own One UI interface. The look and operation are very similar to the Galaxy Watch 3, but with bolder graphics. You swipe left and right to view Tiles for different features, and the layout can be customized to your preferences, while a swipe up shows the app menu in a vertically scrolling list, and down for the main settings menu.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends You still get Samsung Pay and Bixby , but also familiar Google apps including Google Maps which is integrated with the Galaxy Watch 4’s compass, plus access to a wide range of apps. Spotify is available and comes complete with offline playback too. When you sync the Watch 4 with your phone it copies across all your personal settings, so it will match your Do Not Disturb preferences, and apply settings like blocked callers.
A Galaxy Watch 4 for everyone? Having two different designs, two different sizes for each one, various colors, and the option of an LTE connection already opens the Galaxy Watch 4 series up to more people. The software impressed me after an hour with the smartwatches, the new health tracking features have genuine benefits you won’t find elsewhere, and with an expected 40 hours of battery life, it promises to keep going longer than much of the competition.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Ditching the old Active name, and not using confusing names like Frontier to differentiate between styles, makes the Galaxy Watch 4 range simpler and easier to understand. Maintaining the two different styles is the right decision too, as not everyone wants a sporty design or a smartwatch that looks like a chronograph watch.
Both Galaxy Watch 4 models left a strong impression on me, even after a short time, mostly due to the new design and the fact Wear OS 3 hasn’t really altered how Samsung smartwatches operate. Remember, Samsung’s Tizen and One UI was far more usable, logical, and reliable on the Galaxy Watch 3 than Wear OS smartwatches. The fundamentals didn’t need changing on the Galaxy Watch 4, but the watch will benefit from the addition of Google apps and services.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends At first glance, the new Watch 4 models don’t appear to be a massive upgrade over the Galaxy Watch 3 or the Watch Active 2, but there’s a lot more going on under the surface, along with thoughtful alterations to the design too. The Galaxy Watch 4 series feels more accessible, and the choice of properly different looks will make it more appealing to more people. Samsung’s got a winner on its hands with the Galaxy Watch 4 range.
Price and availability The Galaxy Watch 4 and Galaxy Watch 4 Classic will be released on August 27. The Galaxy Watch 4 starts at $299 or 259 British pounds, while the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic starts at $399 or 369 British pounds. Pre-orders begin on August 11.
Editors' Recommendations 3 reasons I’m disappointed by the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 10 big things you missed from Samsung Unpacked 2023 Here’s everything we expect from Samsung’s next Unpacked event The Galaxy Watch 6 just had a major leak — and I’m not impressed First Galaxy Watch 6 photos show it’s fixing the Watch 5’s biggest mistake Android Wearables Android Features Google Samsung Wearables Mobile Samsung's Galaxy Watches are getting a major update that adds a slew of health-related features later this year. Announced today, One UI 5 Watch will be launching with a focus on helping Galaxy Watch owners understand more about their personal wellness, specifically by offering new insights into a user's sleep habits and sleep health.
The One UI 5 Watch update is broken into three main categories: sleep health, general health, and always-on safety features. And, yes, many of them are taken right from the Apple Watch.
Mobile When Samsung launched the Galaxy Watch 5 and Galaxy Watch 5 Pro last August, the big new health feature for both smartwatches was the skin temperature sensor. Except there's been one small problem with it: we haven't been able to use the sensor at all.
Thankfully — nine months after the Galaxy Watch 5's release — that's changing. On April 19, Samsung announced that it has finally activated the temperature sensor on the Galaxy Watch 5 and Watch 5 Pro. However, at least in its current state, there's just one use for it: more in-depth cycle tracking.
Mobile Samsung this week announced that it will be rolling out its latest One UI 5.1 software to current Galaxy devices, including the Galaxy S22, Galaxy Z Fold 4, and Galaxy Z Flip 4 lineups. The company debuted the Android 13-powered One UI 5.1 update on the Galaxy S23 Ultra this month, and it's bringing those extra features to general users.
“One UI 5.1 is the up-to-date example of Samsung’s commitment to providing Galaxy users with the latest innovations as soon as possible,” Samsung's Janghyun Yoon said in a blog post. “Over the past several weeks, we have worked closely with our service providers and carrier partners to bring One UI 5.1 to current Galaxy smartphones and tablets around the world within a few short weeks of the Galaxy S23 series announcement.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
