Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 Review: The best Wear OS smartwatch for smaller wrists By Ajay Kumar Close $249.99 Comfortable fit and size Excellent fitness and health-tracking features Seamless pairing with Samsung devices Two-day battery life Finicky digital bezel Automatic workout tracking can be inconsistent The Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 is the svelte sibling to the chunkier Watch 4 Classic. With its smaller size and multiple color options, it largely offers the same Wear OS experience as the Classic, but there are some key differences. It has a digital bezel rather than the physical rotating one the Galaxy Watch series is known for. This shaves off some of the overall footprint at the cost of a certain degree of usability.
Design and comfort Software Health and fitness tracking Performance and battery Price and availability Our take When it comes to features, though, you’re not missing out on anything. It runs Wear OS 3 and is loaded with health and fitness-tracking features like blood oxygen, heart rate, and BMI. You also get a complete set of Google Play store apps, including Spotify, YouTube Music , Google Maps , Samsung Pay, and more. All this leaves you with one of the best Android smartwatch for smaller wrist sizes, at the cost of ease of control.
Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends Design and comfort The Galaxy Watch 4 is much less of a behemoth on your wrist than the Watch 4 Classic , making it seem more like the spiritual (and physical) successor to the fitness-oriented Active series. It comes in two size options, 40mm and 44mm, and the screen sizes are pretty much identical to the Classic, with the smaller Watch 4 having a 1.2-inch screen and the 44mm having a 1.4-inch screen. There are several color options, including black, silver, green, and pink gold. My review unit was black.
The best smartwatches in 2023: our 12 favorites Best Apple Watch Deals: Put the smartwatch on your wrist from just $129 Best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals: Get the foldable for free I got the larger 44mm Watch 4 for review, even though my wrist is on the narrower side, to take advantage of the slightly larger screen size – and potentially – battery life. At 30.3 grams, it’s a good bit lighter than the 52-gram Watch 4 Classic, and it fit comfortably using the included silicone strap. Wearing it all day, working out, and sleep with it on were all perfectly comfortable. Because it’s IP68, you don’t have to worry about water or dust, so I never felt the need to take it off and often even forgot it was on my wrist.
Previous Next 1 6 Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends The most notable change is that the Watch 4 has a digital bezel rather than a physical rotating one. The screen sits flush to the aluminum body, but there is a black bezel ringing it along with two lug buttons you can use to go back to the home screen or reopen a previously opened app.
If you want to scroll through apps or the various Tiles, you can run your finger along the bezel, and in theory, it should replicate the same effect as rotating the physical bezel, complete with haptics.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Unfortunately, in practice, it was never very precise. Maybe my fingers are simply too inelegant, but trying to scroll with the digital bezel was awkward and finicky at the best of times. All this lends more credence to my personal belief that physical buttons and controls are almost always superior to “fake” capacitive ones that try to replicate them with haptics. Most of the time, I just resorted to using the touchscreen.
On the plus side, the screen is crisp at 450×450, giving it 330 pixels per inch. The AMOLED panel looks great in all settings, and it’s bright enough for outdoor usability. I also wasn’t concerned about durability since the screen is protected by Gorilla Glass DX+, and it survived some accidental drops and bangs without a scratch.
Software With the melding of Samsung Tizen and Google’s Wear OS platform into Wear OS 3, the Watch 4 is one of the best smartwatches I’ve used in terms of uniformity and usability. In many ways, Samsung’s Tizen dominates the interface with the various Tiles you can set up to view what you care about, tons of watch face options with as many or as few complications as you want, and solid and improving app support on the Google Play Store.
Bixby is present if you want to use voice commands, but I never found much use for it. Initial pairing is easy, and it imports things like alarms and Do Not Disturb settings from your phone automatically.
Upon initial setup, however, getting notifications was finicky. I couldn’t always count on messages coming through from Teams, Slack, Signal, or Discord. After a software update, notifications became much more reliable, and I haven’t noticed any missing notifications lately.
The Watch 4 is one of the best smartwatches I’ve used in terms of uniformity and usability.
Apps like Spotify and YouTube Music support offline listening mode, letting you leave your phone at home when you go for a jog. You also have media controls for most apps, including Audible , Netflix, and Pocket Casts. One app I got a lot of use of was Google Maps.
 You can plug in directions using the keyboard or use voice commands and let the Watch 4 give you the directions. It’s excellent for sparing you from having to look at your phone while on the go.
Previous Next 1 3 Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends The one complaint I have is that everything isn’t found in the Galaxy Wearable App. You’ll need to use the app for initial watch setup, picking watch faces, controlling watch settings and the Quick panel, and finding the watch. But to get all the details of your fitness and health-tracking data requires the Samsung Health app, giving you access to sleep tracking, stress tracking, steps, heart rate, and more. Last, for just electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements, you’ll need to download and grant permissions to the Samsung Health Monitor app, which you can download from the Galaxy Store.
That brings you a grand total of three apps to get full usage out of the Watch 4, making me wonder why Samsung doesn’t integrate everything into Galaxy Wearable or Health. It’s a lot of unnecessary app clutter. There are also a few individual permissions that need to be granted to take advantage of certain features.
Health and fitness tracking You won’t be disappointed with the comprehensive suite of health and fitness-tracking features packed into the Watch 4. In terms of what it can measure, it’s a closer rival to smart scales than other smartwatches on the market.
The big unique measurement here is Body Composition. The Watch 4 can measure an impressive set of stats, including Body Mass Index (BMI), Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR), weight, muscle, fat mass, and body fat. You measure by sliding the smartwatch further up your wrist, placing the elbow down on the table, and then pressing your fingers against the two lug buttons without touching your wrist. It’s an awkward gesture and not very comfortable to hold for the time needed for the results to process.
Once you get the results, there are many numbers, and as you can see in the screenshots below, it doesn’t really provide much in the way of breakdown or explanation of what it all actually means. You’ll have to do your own research to figure out if the stats provided by Body Composition are good or bad and to get some actionable advice. That would have been a nice feature to have in the Samsung Health app, and I’m surprised at the missed opportunity since other measurements like sleep and stress tracking do offer advice for improvement.
With sleep tracking, the Watch 4 neatly breaks down your sleep cycle in the Samsung Health app, giving you a sleep score, showing sleep stages like REM sleep, keeping track of blood oxygen, and recording snoring and even calories burned. It was an excellent way to evaluate the quality of my sleep, especially on those unfortunately frequent nights when I had insomnia.
Stress tracking doesn’t throw quite so many numbers at you, but simply plots your stress level on a chart and a color-coded bar. It’s difficult to tell how accurate it is. It often told me I wasn’t very stressed when I was burdened under a flood of work and told me I was very stressed while sitting down and watching Castlevania on Netflix. As much as I’m fond of Trevor Belmont and Alucard, I don’t think either of them was causing me much stress.
Other tracking features are fairly standard. You get step and workout tracking with a variety of exercises like running, walking, cycling, swimming, circuit training, rowing, weight machines, treadmills, and more. There’s both automatic and manual workout tracking, but the Watch 4 is pretty decent at picking up when you’re walking and running.
Previous Next 1 2 Galaxy Watch 4 Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends It had more issues picking up on when I was using my rowing machine, with me often being 10 minutes into my workout before picking up on the fact. The first several times, I had to start it manually before it eventually started to get what I was doing. It does have a bad habit of ending my session early, though, and I haven’t quite been able to figure out why.
With sleep tracking, the Watch 4 neatly breaks down your sleep cycle in the Samsung Health app.
There’s also a heart rate monitor and electrocardiogram (ECG) that let you track your vital signs. The ECG requires the separate download of the Samsung Health Monitor, bringing you up to three apps to get full usage out of the Watch 4.
The ECG measurement takes about 30 seconds to complete and requires you to rest your finger on one of the button lugs. The measurement isn’t meant for diagnosing heart attacks, but it will tell you if it thinks you have atrial fibrillation. In that regard, it’s useful enough, but not really something I would measure every day since the heart rate monitor keeps track of things automatically.
Performance and battery The Watch 4 is powered by an Exynos W920 processor and has 1.5GB RAM , and 16GB of internal storage. This translates to fast and responsive apps and measurements. I never noticed any lagging or hanging, like you might on certain older-generation smartwatches. It’s also nice to see the 5nm processor finally hit wearables after years of hardware stagnation in the smartwatch space.
Battery life is great, at least relative to the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic. I reliably squeezed out two days from the battery under average usage, which included working out on the rowing machine for 40 minutes, a walk in the park, sleep tracking, using Spotify, and general day-to-day monitoring. It took just under two hours to charge to full from 1%. Rather than topping up overnight, I usually just plugged in the Watch 4 when I was showering and never ran out of juice.
Price and availability The Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 comes in at the following price points depending on the size and model: 40mm Bluetooth/Wi-Fi: $250 44mm Bluetooth/Wi-Fi: $280 40mm 4G LTE: $300 44mm 4G LTE: $330 Most models will start shipping in mid-September.
Our take The Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 is packed with features and gives Android users plenty to like. With its slimmer design and more color options, it’s more fashion-forward than the bulky Watch 4 Classic, though that does result in some usability trade-offs. The health and fitness-tracking features are impressive, especially Body Composition, even though there’s room for improvements. Wear OS 3 is smooth and responsive, and the issues that cropped up upon initial use seem to be steadily getting resolved. If you’re in the market for a comfortable, feature-packed smartwatch, you won’t go wrong with the Galaxy Watch 4.
Is there a better alternative? If you’re an iPhone user, the obvious choices are the Apple Watch Series 6 and Apple Watch SE.
 They integrate the best in the iOS ecosystem, they’re high-quality and packed with most or all of the same features as the Watch 4. While it’s possible to use Android smartwatches on iOS, the setup and integration aren’t perfect, and you’ll miss out on many features.
For Android users, the Galaxy Watch 4 Classic is our top pick, with the Watch 4 right next to it for people with smaller wrists who are willing to sacrifice the convenience of the physical bezel. However, there are other Android smartwatch options like the Mobvoi TicWatch Pro 3 and TicWatch E3 , which will both get Wear OS 3 at some point next year. But the Watch 4 and Watch 4 Classic are both newer, so if you want the latest and greatest, you’d be better off with them.
How long will it last? The Galaxy Watch 4 has a standard one-year warranty. It’s IP68 dust and water-resistant and rated to 5ATM, meaning it can survive at a depth of 50 meters for 10 minutes. It’s also certified to MIL-STD-810G, which means it’s survived a set of lab tests for resistance to shock and vibration. The included Sport strap also seems to be made of good, high-quality silicone that didn’t get grungy after workouts. Lastly, Wear OS 3 is the most recent software out for smartwatches, and you’re sure to get more updates, so I expect it to last for at least two years, if not longer.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Galaxy Watch 4 is the best Wear OS smartwatch for people with narrower wrists. It has the same great health and fitness-tracking features as the Watch 4 Classic, but has a lower starting price and two-day battery life. While the digital bezel isn’t nearly as precise a control as the physical dial, the slimmer and more comfortable design makes it a worthwhile trade-off.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Google and Qualcomm are changing Wear OS smartwatches forever Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals: How to get the phone for free Best Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra deals: How to get the phone for free Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 deals: Save big on the foldable Android Wearables Product Reviews Samsung Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile It's not Samsung's latest flagship smartphone, but the Samsung Galaxy S22 is still a great mobile device, especially if you can get it with a discount from your preferred retailer. If you're looking to save big on phone deals and you don't mind going for a previous-generation model, then you should check out these offers for the Samsung Galaxy S22. They may change or disappear entirely at any moment though, so you're going to have to make your purchase quickly if something catches your eye.
Samsung Galaxy S22 deals at Samsung Samsung will be the first place to go to if you're looking for discounts on the Samsung Galaxy S22. The unlocked version of the 128GB model is still going for its retail price of $700, but you can get up to $635 off by trading in your current smartphone. You can get this variant of the Samsung Galaxy S22 for just $550 for savings of $150, but only if you purchase it for use on the Verizon network.
Mobile Samsung is one of the most recognizable names in modern smartphones. It has a well-deserved reputation for offering an expansive lineup of great phones with something for just about everyone. This means if you're looking for an Android phone, you'll easily find a Samsung model that's worth considering based on your needs and budget. In fact, the number of choices can be a bit overwhelming, but the good news is that we've explored the entire range and highlighted the best Samsung smartphones you can buy in 2023.
Like its predecessor, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra gets the nod for the best overall Samsung phone, and that's not just because it's Samsung's premium flagship device. Sure, it's the most expensive phone in the lineup, but you're getting some incredible bang for your buck with its large and gorgeous display, excellent cameras, and a new processor that offers unprecedented levels of performance. And if you're looking for something more unique, more pocketable, or more affordable, you'll find a lot of other great options on our list in every category, with links to detailed reviews for each.
Mobile If you’re in search of a new tablet, Samsung’s Galaxy Tab lineup has a lot to offer. It regularly places models amongst the best tablets and it’s up there with Apple’s iPad lineup when it comes to popularity. Right now a new Samsung Galaxy Tab even offers some savings, as there’s several seeing a discount right now. Whether you’re looking for a tablet to create with, do homework with, or be entertained with, these are the best Samsung Galaxy Tab deals to choose from right now.
Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite (32GB) — $130, was $160 A good entry-level Samsung Galaxy option is the Galaxy Tab A7 Lite. It starts at a reasonable price, but doesn’t hold back much when it comes to specs and capability. This model comes with 3GB of system RAM and 32GB of storage capacity. If you’re just looking for access to the internet, email, and some apps, this should be plenty for you. This is also a good option if you’re looking for one of the best tablets for kids, as it’s made with a sturdy, rugged frame. The 8.7-inch screen is good for both entertainment and work, and its slim design makes it an easy choice if portability is a factor.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
