Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides News Smartwatch water resistance: The technology demystified By Jackie Dove Close Are you the kind of person who removes their watch before doing the dishes or washing your hands? If so, that’s because old habits are hard to break. Today, the vast majority of smartwatches are built with some degree of water resistance , so that relatively benign contact with moisture will not be fatal to your expensive timepiece. Here are the ratings and specifications you should look for, whether you wear your watch while operating a gardening hose or scuba diving.
Water-resistant versus waterproof IP rating ATM rating MIL-STD-810G rugged ratings Apple Watch Samsung Galaxy Watch Garmin Bottom line Water-resistant versus waterproof A water-resistant product is not waterproof, and right now, there is no such thing as a waterproof watch. Water-resistant is the lowest level of protection, meaning that the item is designed to make it difficult — but not impossible — for water to seep through. Waterproof means the item is impervious to water, no matter how long it is submerged. A watch may also be advertised as “sweatproof,” but that is another measure entirely, as sweat has corrosive chemistry — water, uric acid, sodium chloride, and lactic acid — that is much more damaging to electronic equipment than plain water.
For smartwatches, waterproof actually means water-resistant as specified by the manufacturer under certain test conditions. Water resistance is measured by Ingress Protection / International Protection (IP) or atmosphere (ATM) ratings. It’s generally either one or the other for any given item.
Are Apple AirPods waterproof? Everything you need to know Is the Samsung Galaxy S23 waterproof? What the IP rating means Smartwatch sales soared in 2018, with Apple leading the charge Water resistance is not permanent and can diminish over time and under certain conditions. Dropping your watch so that it absorbs impact is generally bad for repelling water over time. The same goes for exposure to substances like soap, solvents, sunscreen, hand lotions, and insect repellants and wearing your watch in a sauna or steam room.
If you’re shopping for a smartwatch or fitness tracker for use while freestyle swimming, make sure to check the company website and read the manual. That’s where you’ll find all relevant use parameters for the product. Search for “water-resistant” in the documentation to jump right to the critical fine print. Ignore the marketing, ad copy, and especially any images associated with the product’s use around water, as it can all be misleading.
IP rating The IP rating is defined as the water and dust resistance for electronics. This rating is published by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) — an equivalent European standard is EN 60529. A rating of IP followed by X and a number means the item has been tested in water only. IP followed by two numbers means testing has been completed for dust/dirt resistance (first number) and water resistance (second number). In addition, these devices are rated IP68, a device rating standard outlined by the IEC. IP68 devices, for example, are dustproof and shielded from continuous water immersion. When IP is followed by both a number and an X, that means it’s been tested for dust resistance only, not for water resistance. Here’s the breakdown to make it clearer: IPX0: Not protected.
IPX1: Dripping water falling vertically (water equal to 1mm or 0.039 inches of rainfall per minute).
IPX2: Dripping water when tilted up to 15 degrees (2 1/2 minutes in all tilt directions for 10 minutes, with water equal to 3mm or 0.12 inches of rainfall per minute).
IPX3: Spraying water (from a spray nozzle for one minute per square meter for five minutes, or from an oscillating tube at 10 minutes with a water volume of 0.07 liters per minute).
IPX4: Splashing water (for 10 minutes with a spray nozzle or oscillating tube).
IPX5: Water jets (one minute per square meter for at least three minutes, with water volume of 12.5 liters per minute).
IPX6: Powerful water jets, such as heavy spray, driving rain, boat washing, and rough outdoor sea conditions (one minute per square meter for at least three minutes, with water volume of 100 liters per minute at a distance of 3 meters or 9.8 feet).
IPX7: Temporary immersion in water, including splashes, rain, or snow, and showering (up to 1m — about 3.3 feet of static water for up to 30 minutes).
IPX8: Continuous immersion in water beyond 1 meter, as specified by the manufacturer. This should ring a bell for buyers because that means the manufacturer of your watch is setting the standard of how it performs beyond the IPX7 level.
IPX9K: Protected against high pressure and temperature water jets (with water volume at 14 to 16 liters per minute at a distance of 0.10 to 0.15 meters or 3.9 to 5.9 inches).
A separate Dive rating complies with EN13319 and allows for splashes, rain, showering, swimming, and diving into water, as well as snorkeling, high-speed water sports, and scuba diving.
ATM rating ATM ratings are somewhat more popular for smaller wearables like smartwatches and fitness trackers, though these can use IP ratings, too, which used to be primarily for larger items such as headphones , smartphones, and speakers. A measure of 1 ATM equals the normal pressure at sea level. Atmospheres map to pressure testing measurements, which are then translated into water depth to determine how much the device can take. For example, a smartwatch that carries a 5 ATM rating means it can withstand depth pressure of 50 meters. Water pressure can vary, particularly when swimming, so a smartwatch or fitness tracker can carry an ATM rating but still not be safe for immersion in water. Devices with a 1 ATM or 3 ATM rating should not be used for swimming.
1 ATM: Depth pressure of 10 meters (33 feet). Avoid contact with water.
3 ATM: Depth pressure of 30 meters (98 feet). You can get caught in the rain or wash your hands because there’s protection against splashes.
5 ATM: Depth pressure of 50 meters (164 feet). Limited submersion in water, like when swimming in a pool.
10 ATM: Depth pressure of 100 meters (328 feet). Extended submersion in water, like for snorkeling in the ocean.
20 ATM: Depth pressure of 200 meters (656 feet). High-impact water sports like surfing and jet skiing.
MIL-STD-810G rugged ratings The most common standard for rugged devices is MIL-STD-810G, an overarching classification with many durability subcategories, like protection against drops and impact. This standard relies on a battery of tests that simulate environmental conditions like shock and vibration. For example, the MIL-STD-810G’s shock test requires 26 drops across five devices onto 2 inches of plywood over concrete. While product manufacturers must meet those specifications to sell to the military, consumer products like smartwatches can tailor or abbreviate the tests they perform. For non-military purposes, the standard describes 28 variable tests that engineers and designers can tailor and select to “generate the most relevant test data possible.” Here are just a few examples.
500.5: Low-pressure altitude 501.5: High temperature 502.5: Low temperature 503.5: Temperature shock 506.5: Rain 507.5: Humidity 510.5: Sand and dust 512.5: Immersion 514.6: Vibration 516.6: Shock Apple Watch Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends Apple gives a specific lowdown on the water resistance features of all of its watch models. The first-generation Apple Watch had a water resistance rating of IPX7 under IEC standard 60529. Apple Watch Series 2 and later have a water resistance rating of 50 meters under ISO standard 22810:2010.
Classic Buckle, Leather Loop, Modern Buckle, Milanese, and Link Bracelet Bands are not water-resistant. You can wear your watch while exercising, washing your hands, or walking in the rain. Series 2 or later is OK for shallow water swimming in a pool or ocean, but not for scuba diving, water skiing, or other activities involving high-velocity water or deep submersion. If it touches anything that’s not fresh water, Apple says the watch should be cleaned with fresh water and dried with a lint-free cloth.
Samsung Galaxy Watch Samsung According to Samsung, the Galaxy Watch passed military specification MIL-STD-810G testing against 10 specific conditions, including drops from 4.9 feet, extreme temperatures, dust, shock/vibration, and low pressure/high altitude. The Galaxy Watches are also water-resistant up to 50 meters per ISO standard 22810:2010. They are not intended for scuba diving. Samsung warns buyers to avoid excessive, sudden temperature changes and high-velocity activities. The remedy for watches connecting with anything but fresh water is similar to Apple’s solution of rinsing in fresh water and drying after use in seawater or chlorinated water.
Garmin Image used with permission by copyright holder Garmin makes a variety of sports watches with a wide range of specifications. The Descent Mk1 ratings are 10 ATM and Dive (designed to comply with EN13319), which means that you can go scuba diving with this watch. The Garmin Swim 2 is rated 5 ATM, while the Fenix 6S Pro is rated 10 ATM and can measure your underwater wrist-based heart rate. The Vivoactive 4 series has a 5 ATM rating.
Bottom line Getting the best performance from your smartwatch — and keeping it safe in the process — means knowing what you intend to use it for and making sure that the product is up to the task. When you’re buying a smartwatch, do not rely on ratings or marketing copy, because the meanings of ratings can vary according to what the manufacturer tests and the testing protocols. Instead, go by the manufacturer’s product guidelines of what kind of immersion the product can withstand.
Assume that any waterproof claim is limited to less than 1 meter (3 feet) unless otherwise stated. Also assume that buttons, ports, and dials cannot be used while the device is exposed to water. In all other instances where you don’t know for sure, use your common sense to protect your valuable device, and err on the side of caution. If an activity sounds dangerous to your device, it probably is.
Don’t forget about your watch band. Metal or leather in water is a definite no-no, but silicone or nylon sport bands should stand up to water just fine. While manufacturers test under lab conditions, the real world often presents tougher challenges to your smartwatch, and no device will stand up to abuse, regardless of how rugged it is.
Editors' Recommendations The best smartwatches in 2023: our 12 favorites Is the Nothing Phone 2 waterproof? IP what? Explaining water and dust resistance for audio gear Find the best, most stylish smartwatch for him this Valentine’s Day Find the best, most stylish smartwatch for her this Valentine’s Day Android Apple Wearables Android Apple Google Wearables Mobile A new year approaches, which means a new slate of smartphones will start to hit in a few months. One of the first that we’ll see in 2024 should be from OnePlus with its flagship OnePlus 12.
The OnePlus 11 is an excellent phone, as we indicated in our review. It’s one of the best phones you can get in 2023, and is right up there with great competitors like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, Google Pixel 8 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
Mobile If you were hoping that the recently released Apple Watch Ultra 2 will appear with a discount in this year's Black Friday deals, you're in luck because the smartwatch's 49mm, GPS + Cellular model is currently $60 off from Amazon. From $799, the wearable device is down to $739 -- it's still not cheap, but it's rare to enjoy savings when buying an Apple product that's just a couple of months old. There's no telling how long the offer will remain online though, so before it gets taken down, push through with your purchase.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra 2 We tagged the Apple Watch Ultra 2 as the best premium smartwatch for the iPhone in our list of the best smartwatches, and at first glance, it's obvious why. The 49mm titanium case and Always-On OLED touchscreen will catch anybody's attention because of their size and brightness, while the wearable device itself is very fast and smooth because it's powered by Apple's new S9 chipset. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 can last up to 36 hours on a single charge that may be extended to up to 72 hours in Low Power Mode, and it offers a comprehensive suite of health-related and fitness features. It also comes with the customizable Action button for a more convenient way of accessing your apps.
Mobile Double Tap is one of the coolest features I’ve used on the Apple Watch in a long time. It’s not the most useful, and I don’t find myself using it that often, but when I do have a need to tap my fingers together to activate a function, I’m still at the stage where I think, “Wow, this is a really impressive thing.” Here’s why it’s an example of what Apple does best — and why there’s so much potential for the future in it.
I was worried about Double Tap Apple Watch Series 9 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
