Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News One of last year’s most luxurious smartwatches finally has Wear OS 3 By Andy Boxall Close Tag Heuer has announced that its luxurious Calibre E4 smartwatch range is all set to receive an update to Google’s Wear OS 3 software, and that it will bring with it significant changes.
Google announced Wear OS 3 in May 2021 , while Tag Heuer released the 42mm Connected Calibre E4 and 45mm Connected Calibre E4 in 2022, so the update has been a long time coming.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The new software promises to change the way your Tag Heuer smartwatch looks and operates. The user interface has been entirely redesigned to make it easier and faster to use, from the notification view to the quick settings shade pulled down from the top of the main watch face screen. Expect it to look and feel very different from the way it does now. You can get a taste of what’s to come by looking at how different Wear OS 3 is on two competing models.
Swipe on the screen, and you’ll be greeted by customizable tiles. There are new complications to add to different watch faces, and the buttons can also be configured. The lower button on the watch’s case now opens a recent app view by default, so it’s quicker to jump back into recently used apps.
I wore a $2,750 smartwatch and I didn’t want to take it off Fossil’s first Wear OS 3 smartwatch looks like a better (and cheaper) Pixel Watch These two smartwatches reveal a dark side of Wear OS 3 But it’s not all about the way Wear OS looks on your watch — it’s also about the app you use on your phone.
New Tag Heuer Connected app Porsche watch face Andy Boxall/Digital Trends When the update is complete, you’ll have to delete the old Wear OS app on your phone and install a new Tag Heuer Connected app, as your smartwatch will use this to pair and sync with your phone. It apparently will only take five minutes to set the newly updated smartwatch up. The companion app lets you customize the watch’s look and view data from all your stored activity sessions. This all sounds quite familiar, as it’s a similar experience to the one we had with the Montblanc Summit 3 , which was released with Wear OS 3 already installed.
Tag Heuer will also include a new feature with the app called Tag Heuer Golf Full Shot Tracking, which includes shot detection, distance measurement, and shot recording. Although it has not shared any more details about this feature, it indicates it’s just the first in a series of new features enabled by Wear OS 3 and the Tag Heuer Connected app.
It’s important to understand that the Wear OS 3 update is so transformative that it will completely reset your smartwatch during the update process, due in part to the requirement to use the new companion app. Your smartwatch will alert you when the update is ready, but it appears it won’t be fully released much before March 27. Even then, expect the update to reach compatible smartwatches in sequence and not all at once.
Tag Heuer and Google’s Wear OS 3 update is compatible with all the Calibre E4 smartwatches, including the recently released Sport Edition, Golf Edition , and the Porsche special edition.
 If you own an older Tag Heuer Connected smartwatch , which isn’t going to get the update, the company runs a trade-in program to encourage you to update to a newer model, which may be an incentive if you’re tempted by the new software.
Editors' Recommendations One of the best Wear OS smartwatches just got a surprise upgrade Wear OS 4 is coming to your smartwatch this year — here’s what’s new Wear OS 3 is finally coming to these older smartwatches this month Tag Heuer’s new smartwatch goes perfectly with your Porsche Android 12L and Wear OS 3 show Google still isn’t serious about tablets and smartwatches Tech News Wearables Mobile German luxury brand Montblanc has added a new smartwatch to its portfolio, the Summit 3, targeted at a deep-pocket audience that can shell out $1,300 for one of its timepieces. But what’s truly remarkable about the smartwatch, aside from its eye-watering price tag, is that it runs Wear OS 3 — the latest (and inexplicably delayed) version of Google’s reworked smartwatch operating system.
Wear OS 3 was officially revealed over a year ago, but so far, it has remained exclusive to the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 and its pricier Classic sibling. The upcoming Pixel Watch will run the latest software update, and Google has confirmed that Wear OS 3 will also land on Fossil Group smartwatches such as the Fossil Gen 6, Michael Kors Gen 6, and Skagen Falster Gen 6. Wear OS 3 is also confirmed for the TicWatch Pro 3 and E3 from Mobvoi.
Mobile Google is finally bringing streaming to its YouTube Music app on Wear OS. It now joins Spotify as the main method of streaming music on the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 and other Wear OS-powered smartwatches.
"We’re excited to share that the YouTube Music app on your Wear OS watch is rolling out two new features. First, starting this week you will be able to stream music over LTE or Wi-Fi, so you can listen to your favorite playlists wherever you go, even when your phone isn't nearby. Second, you can now add a new YouTube Music tile to your watch that allows quick access to your recently played playlist or to the browse page of the YouTube Music app," the Wear OS team shared.
Mobile The new Tag Heuer Connected Calibre E4 smartwatches have only recently gone on sale, but that hasn’t stopped the company from announcing a special edition version. The Connected Calibre E4 Golf Edition probably won’t come as a surprise to anyone familiar with the brand’s previous models, as it also released a Golf Edition of the Connected Modular 45 in 2019.
The Connected Calibre E4 Golf Edition is based on the 45mm version of the new range, not the sleeker 42mm version we recently reviewed. This means it has a larger ceramic bezel set around a flat sapphire crystal over the 1.39-inch AMOLED screen, while the 45mm case is made from titanium with a Diamond-like Carbon (DLC) finish. The crown has a rubber surround to make it easier to twist and navigate through the watch’s menu and golf course maps, and there are two pushers for other functions on either side of it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
