Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Wearables News Together, Google and Samsung just may have a chance to beat the Apple Watch By Andy Boxall Close At this moment in time, Apple owns the smartwatch space, and the Apple Watch’s status as the world’s bestselling watch is well-deserved.
 Google, on the other hand, has let Wear OS stagnate over the years, and while the dedicated companies that use Wear OS keep making great hardware, the software usually feels substandard.
More than just speed and battery life What does Google bring? Good track record Samsung makes the only true competitor to the Apple Watch. The Galaxy Watch 3’s fluid, well-designed Tizen software and innovative control system make it a winner, but it lacks Google apps and services. Neither Google nor Samsung can beat Apple on their own, but perhaps together they can? That’s what was announced at Google I/O 2021.
Google’s new “Wear” software is an exciting mash-up of Wear OS and Samsung’s Tizen , complete with Fitbit’s comprehensive health tech for good measure. Apple may not be shaking in its boots yet, but for the first time, it should be looking over its shoulder to see what’s coming.
More than just speed and battery life Google said Wear is about three things: Faster performance, longer battery life, and a thriving developer community. Yes, speed and longer battery life will be welcome, but if you’ve ever used both Wear OS- and Tizen-powered smartwatches, you’ll know Samsung has a lot of far more important improvements to bring to this new software platform if it wants to truly compete with the Apple Watch.
We’re combining the best of @wearosbygoogle and @SamsungMobile Tizen into a unified wearable platform. ⌚ Apps will start faster, battery life will be longer and you&#39;ll have more choice than ever before, from devices to apps and watch faces.
#GoogleIO pic.twitter.com/vj2aYZD81x &mdash; Google (@Google) May 18, 2021 Samsung’s biggest advantage over Wear OS is the control system. The Galaxy Watch 3’s rotating bezel is a triumph of ergonomic design as it’s so easy to use on your wrist. Some Wear OS watches have rotating crowns, and while it’s a decent alternative to swiping the screen, it’s not always very comfortable to use, and not every company implements it on every watch.
The rotating bezel is tied to Tizen’s excellent, natural-to-use menu system. Compared to the endless screen swiping on a Wear OS watch, it’s quirky, eye-catching design feels modern and fun. It’s also really fast, something Google-powered smartwatches often struggle with, which is due to the baffling rarity of smartwatches with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 4100 Wear platform inside.
Tizen’s control system has always been crying out for more attention, as it’s vastly more user-friendly, much better designed, and far more natural to use than Wear OS. Everything that makes Tizen great is now potentially coming to Wear and a host of smartwatches made by companies that truly understand watch design.
What does Google bring? However, Tizen suffers because it’s not a piece of Google software, and that means it doesn’t have Google Maps, it doesn’t natively use Google Pay, and Samsung has to actively encourage developers to make apps for it. Samsung’s problem with Tizen is the same one Huawei has with HarmonyOS and the App Gallery.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Google working together with Samsung cures this. All the familiar and widely used apps will be available, you won’t have to sign up for Samsung Pay if you don’t want to, and all the apps from the Google Play store that work with Wear OS will likely work with Wear, too. If they don’t, there’s plenty of motivation for developers to change the situation.
Then there’s Fitbit.
Google acquired Fitbit for $2.1 billion, and this is the first time we’ve heard what it has planned for the fitness giant. The Apple Watch and the Apple Health platform is superb. It’s usable by casual exercisers along with the hardcore, and has thoughtful accessibility features like wheelchair movement tracking, as well as a comprehensive suite of sensors and health-related tools like environmental noise measurement and automatic handwash timing.
Fitbit has the data and the experience to challenge Apple Health, but it has never had the hardware design ability to really take it on. Samsung is equally capable when it comes to health tracking, and has innovated where Apple hasn’t with its blood pressure measurement feature on the Galaxy Watch 3. However, neither can come close to the simplicity or friendliness of tracking activity on the Apple Watch.
On Fadelite’s Google Fit step count Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Google Fit is somewhere in-between. Fit’s design and usability is one of the few areas of Wear OS that Google has steadily updated and improved, but it’s let down by not really catering to highly motivated sports and fitness fans. Add Fitbit and Samsung into the Google Fit mix, and you’ve got a lot of potential for a far more extensive health-tracking platform that’s not tied to ugly hardware.
Good track record Industry partnerships can go either way. For every Leica and Huawei , there are also marketing cash-ins like McLaren and OnePlus.
 The good thing is not only have Google and Samsung got plenty of motivation to succeed — both would love to blitz Apple — but the pair have recently successfully worked together on another innovative project, the Galaxy Fold series.
When Samsung revealed the updated Galaxy Fold after its difficult start in life, it did so with software co-designed with Google that helps Android work faster, more reliably, and more naturally on the new folding smartphone. The combined efforts made the release-ready Galaxy Fold a pleasure to use right from the start. It’s proof the two companies can work well together, have a shared vision of how to make a great software experience, and share a love of extremely cool hardware to show it off.
I can’t wait to see what Samsung and Google bring to smartwatches with Wear, because the potential here is absolutely huge. But I can’t help but smile at the effort that’s being put into it, because if notihng else, the new unified Wear platform underlines the might of the Apple Watch in the smartwatch space: Two of the world’s biggest names in tech feel the only way to take it down is to join forces.
Editors' Recommendations This hidden Apple Watch feature is better than I could have imagined Apple and Google are teaming up to make tracking devices less creepy Your Google One plan just got 2 big security updates to keep you safe online 5 things the iPhone has to change in 2023 before I ditch Android Apple vs. Samsung: Who has the best lock screen customization in 2022? Android Apple Mobile Android Apple Fitbit Google Google I/O 2023 Samsung Wearables Mobile One of my favorite things to do with my iPhone 14 Pro is to take photos. Whether it’s part of my attempt to be artsy by snapping spontaneous moments with my husband and daughter, or just capturing the magic at Disneyland, I have a ton of photos. Though I don’t have time to edit every single one, I do like to spend time making edits on my favorites just to improve how they look before I post them on social media. But the built-in tools on the iPhone for taking photos and editing them are, well, lacking.
I’ve been testing a few different Android devices since I joined Digital Trends, and let me tell you — it’s been a trip. I’ve discovered so many new photo and camera tools on various Android devices that just show how much Apple is behind in that regard, despite being one of the most popular devices for mobile photography.
Mobile The Competition Commission of India slapped Google with two hefty fines over anti-competitive strategies that have allowed it to dominate the mobile ecosystem in India. Totaling over $250 million, the penalties reprimand Google for forcing smartphone makers to avoid Android forks, prefer Google’s web search service, and pre-install popular cash cows like YouTube on phones.
Google was also disciplined for forcing its own billing system on developers that allowed the giant to take up to a 30% share of all in-app purchases for applications listed on the app store. Google is not really a stranger to titanic penalties; The EU handed Google a record-breaking fine of approximately $5 billion in 2018 for abusing its dominant market position — a penalty that was upheld in September this year following Google’s appeal.
Mobile Last week, the Pixel Watch launched. As Google's first premium smartwatch, it fills up the void that has existed for eight long-drawn years. During this time, Android users have felt the absence of a powerful smartwatch that offers an unadulterated Android experience, competing against the Apple Watch. Google arrives late to the party, at a time when brands already imagine successors to smartphones, and Apple and Samsung have strongholds in the market.
The Pixel Watch stands against the odds, and the first impressions lend no mercy. Things could have been much different had Google set a timely foot in the segment. So, a few basic questions crop up: Is it too late for the Pixel Watch to get the success that Google claims it to be worthy of? Can Google salvage that? Is this the end of Wear OS? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
