Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Honor Magic Vs review: a load of old hocus-pocus By Andy Boxall Close $1,695.00 Easy to use when closed Two-day battery life Big screen is great for video Reasonable price No app drawer No wireless charging Poor wide-angle camera We need more big-screen folding smartphones like the Honor Magic Vs to take on the mighty, market-dominating Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4.
 But these phones need to do more than just exist — they need to match and also exceed the competition.
Honor Magic Vs: design Honor Magic Vs: screens Honor Magic Vs: software Honor Magic Vs: camera Honor Magic Vs: battery, charging, and performance Honor Magic Vs: price and availability Honor Magic Vs: 2 months later Unrefined Honor Magic Vs can’t beat the Galaxy Z Fold 4 The Galaxy Z Fold 4 is an excellent smartphone, and it’ll take more than just similar hardware to become a serious challenger. Can the Honor Magic Vs steal people away from the Z Fold 4? The new Honor Magic 4 Ultimate is all about the cameras The Honor Magic V folding smartphone is here to tempt you Honor’s Magic V foldable reappears flaunting a more premium look than the Fold 3 Honor Magic Vs: design Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I’m going to talk about the Honor Magic Vs’s design in a mostly positive fashion, but there are a few causes for concern here. The Magic Vs’s wide cover screen is more usable than the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4’s, and I’ve primarily used it this way during my weeks with the phone. The keyboard is placed a little low on the screen, which needs adjusting to, but once you have it’s fine. However, it’s Microsoft’s SwiftKey keyboard installed by default, so I installed Google’s Gboard separately, as it’s far more reliable to use.
At 12.9mm thick when closed, the Magic Vs is surprisingly compact, and it has slipped into my pocket without causing a problem. It is quite heavy at 267 grams, and for that reason, you always know it’s there. This also causes fatigue after holding the closed phone for any length of time, but this isn’t a situation unique to the Magic Vs. Open the phone up, and the chassis is 6.1mm thick.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The slimness of the chassis, and the way the phone folds tightly shut without a gap, do make it a little awkward to open. The hinge is still stiff on my review model, and there isn’t much to “grab,” so it takes more effort than I’d like to open the phone. If my hands are sweaty or recently moisturized, then there’s almost no chance of prying the two sections apart at all. I like the gapless construction, but the Oppo Find N2 shares a similar design and isn’t such a pain to open.
The gear-less hinge is quiet, and its special construction allows the phone to close without a gap, but it still seems to be bedding in. At least, I hope it is. Initially, the hinge didn’t have enough resistance to hold it at a semi-open angle, but it seems to be better now after a few weeks of use. However, it needs time to settle after opening it up, as for a start, the phone isn’t quite flat. After a short time, it seems to relax the last few millimeters, which is very strange, and the not-quite-flat angle is really noticeable at first. Even after a few weeks using the phone every day, this has not changed.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends My version of the Honor Magic Vs is in the stunning cyan color, which has a beautiful silver flake inside to really catch the light, but you can also get the phone in an ordinary black color too. The camera module is jewel-like in its shape, with more sweeping corners than you’d expect to find, and it looks great. The Magic Vs has a very attractive overall look, especially in cyan, and the slimness of the chassis makes it feel “normal” in your hand when it’s closed up. I have been able to comfortably use the phone like this, which is great news, but the hinge is not as refined as the one on the Galaxy Z Fold 4.
The hinge isn’t the only issue. The Magic Vs is also lacking any durability enhancements. It does not have a basic IP rating for dust resistance, and there’s no mention of Gorilla Glass or an alternative to give this heavy phone some extra protection in the long term. Honor says the hinge has been tested to 400,000 folds, but outside of this, you should be pretty careful with the Honor Magic Vs if you want it to last.
Honor Magic Vs: screens Andy Boxall/Digital Trends On the outside is a 6.45-inch, 21:9 aspect ratio OLED screen with a 120Hz refresh rate and a 2560 x 1080 pixel resolution. On the inside is a 7.9-inch OLED with a 10.3:9 aspect ratio, a 90Hz refresh rate, and a 2272 x 1984 pixel resolution. Both have a 90% screen-to-body ratio, 1920Hz PWM dimming for less flicker, a DCI-P3 color gamut and can show more than one billion colors.
What about a crease? Well, it is there, but as with most foldable, you can’t see it when viewed face-on, and when the screen is illuminated. It’s more visible at an angle, and you can feel it when you run your finger across the screen. I don’t find it annoying or distracting, and there aren’t any ripples in the screen on either side. I don’t consider it an issue. Outside visibility is good, but in bright sunlight, there is a lot of reflection on the inner screen.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Both screens have a higher than 60Hz refresh rate, but you won’t always see the 90 or 120Hz refresh rates the screens are capable of. I found that, particularly when closed, the Magic Vs defaults to 60Hz far too often. It’s noticeable in apps like Chrome and Twitter, where blur I don’t expect to see was visible when the refresh rate was left on automatic. I ended up forcing the phone to use the higher refresh rate all the time.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Video looks great, especially on the inner screen, and it remains a huge benefit of big-screen foldables. I love not having to reach for a tablet when I want to really enjoy a video, and the convenience of doing this anywhere is fantastic. It’s the same for reading, whether it’s an e-book or the browser, too.
However, apps (including YouTube) don’t really support the half-angled mode, where the phone supports itself, so the information bar at the top of the screen doesn’t disappear and controls don’t dynamically appear on the lower half of the screen. It also bothers me the volume rocker is on the same side as the camera module, so in this supported orientation, it’s on the leading edge of the phone if you put the phone flat-side down, making it difficult to push.
Honor Magic Vs: software Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Using the Honor Magic Vs’s software is like stepping back in time by a few years. There are strange design decisions and a wealth of apps that can’t be uninstalled — making it far less enjoyable to use than One UI on the Galaxy Z Fold 4 and even ColorOS on the Find N2. It’s a real shame, as there are good points about the Magic Vs’s software, but they are outnumbered by the bad.
There’s no app drawer available — a cardinal sin in 2023 for a phone sold outside China. There are at least 22 pre-installed apps, eight of which can’t be uninstalled, and you can only stuff them inside a folder because there’s no app drawer. It makes the phone appear and feel messy.
Previous Next 1 6 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends When using the camera app with the screen open, the shutter button stays on the right of the screen regardless of the phone’s orientation, but a black bar that can contain buttons for features will shift around the screen, seemingly unattached to those buttons. Perhaps that’s the way Honor intends it to look, but it’s not very pretty. It all feels a bit unfinished.
On the positive side, apps delivered notifications reliably, and it doesn’t seem to manage power too aggressively. Multi-tasking on the large screen is decent, with the option to show an app on either side of the screen and to add a floating window too. It’s activated using a simple swipe, so it’s not difficult to learn either. I like the unusual “peek” view for certain apps, such as the gallery and the phone, where a small window shows your last action or recent calls.
Previous Next 1 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Honor’s MagicUI 7.1 is reminiscent of Huawei’s EMUI user interface on both Android and HarmonyOS, and it lacks any character of its own. Some of the design decisions mean it won’t appeal to anyone used to Samsung or Google’s Android phone software, and recent usability advancements in Oppo’s ColorOS software mean it lags behind the Find N2 as well.
When I first tried the Magic Vs the software wasn’t ready to test, and seeing as this was in November 2022, I had high hopes the months of extra development time meant it would be a real winner on arrival. Unfortunately, it still needs refinement. Honor says it will deliver three years of major Android software updates, along with five years of security updates too. This is solid but behind Samsung’s slightly longer commitment.
Honor Magic Vs: camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends At the top of the camera module is the main 54-megapixel camera, in the middle is an 8MP telephoto camera with a 3x optical zoom and optical image stabilization (OIS), and at the bottom is a 50MP wide-angle camera with a 122-degree field of view, which can also shoot macro photos.
When I previewed the Magic Vs during MWC 2023 , I hoped a software update would arrive before I fully reviewed it to fix some of the camera issues, but this has not happened, and issues have not been fixed after the arrival of an update in May 2023 either. What it means is the main camera is the only one worth using, as the wide-angle camera is surprisingly poor quality, and the 3x optical zoom’s low pixel count means photos lack detail. The camera app also pushes a 10x digital zoom setting, which is predictably awful.
Previous Next 1 19 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 3x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 3x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 3x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Night Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Night Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 3x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends What’s wrong with the wide-angle camera? There’s a lot of smoothing going on, which robs photos of detail and makes them look artificial and unpleasant. Colors and contrast are not consistent with the main camera, and there’s quite a lot of distortion at the edges of photos too. It’s very disappointing. The 3x optical zoom lacks detail, and like the wide-angle, there’s evidence of smoothing and digital enhancements which don’t change the photos for the better.
The main camera takes pleasing photos with a good balance of colors and contrast, but nothing stands out as being extra special. I reviewed the Magic Vs immediately after the Xiaomi 13 Pro , which has a fantastic camera, so its generally lackluster performance really showed up. Night mode is passable, but there’s plenty of evidence the software has to step in to maintain quality.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends On the video side, Honor has its own version of Samsung’s Single Take mode, called AI Instant, which generates smaller clips and still images from a video, along with a special edit mode to create your own movie. There’s also a special Movie mode with different filters and effects, similar to the system on the Magic4 Pro.
 The camera can shoot up to 4K resolution at 60 fps.
Some will argue the camera is not the focus here, but this is an expensive, flagship folding phone, and the camera should still be up there with the best. It’s not, and it’ll take some hefty software tweaks to improve it, which I’m disappointed to have not seen yet.
Honor Magic Vs: battery, charging, and performance Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Honor Magic Vs’s 4,900mAh battery consistently returns two days of average use, which means messages, apps, web browsing, GPS, and taking photos for a total of under three hours per day, with the device turned off overnight. Most days, I end with around 60% battery remaining, so with light use, the Magic Vs’s battery would stretch into a third day. Extend use beyond three hours per day, add a smartwatch into the mix, and I’ve found the battery is unlikely to last two full days.
Recharging the Magic Vs is only possible using a wired connection, as it does not have wireless charging, or a reverse charging feature either. The Honor 66W SuperCharge fast charger is included in the box and offers the fastest way of recharging the battery. Going from 2% (when the phone turned itself off) to 100% takes less than an hour.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Honor Magic Vs Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Regarding performance, the Honor Magic Vs uses the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 processor, with 12GB of RAM, and I have experienced no issues at all. This chip has proven itself to be very efficient in the past, which definitely helps the Magic Vs make the most out of its battery capacity, but there are some concerns when the phone is pushed hard.
I don’t think the software is making the most of its ability. Playing games, including Asphalt 9: Legends , reveals it’s not as smooth or as fast as I expect, and definitely isn’t the faultless gaming experience the Galaxy Z Fold 4 provides. The aspect ratio of the screen means you get bars above and below the gameplay screen too. Playing Asphalt 9: Legends for 30 minutes took 11% of the battery, and watching videos for the same amount of time can take at least 5%.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Additionally, the Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 has been superseded by Qualcomm, and although it’ll still be a good performer for several years to come, this is a phone with a high price, and for that, I would have liked to see the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 inside. If you want to keep your new phone for many years, then getting the best specification possible is important. Finally, calls sound great, and 5G connectivity has been fine too.
Honor Magic Vs: price and availability Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Honor Magic Vs has not been officially released in the U.S., and this isn’t expected to change. The phone is available now in the U.K. and Europe, where it costs 1,399 pounds (around $1,760 U.S. or 1,599 euros). For reference, the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 starts at $1,800, or 1,650 pounds, and makes the Magic Vs the cheapest big-screen foldable available in the U.K..
It’s good to see Honor keep the price of the Magic Vs well under the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 , its primary competitor at the moment, but does that make it worth buying? It definitely makes it appealing, but the camera and software are better on the Z Fold 4 — and spending a little more to get it is still wise. It may also be worth waiting to see the reviews of the Google Pixel Fold and whether Samsung still makes the big-screen foldable to beat in 2023.
If you want a folding phone that’s more about convenience, then do take a look at the excellent Galaxy Z Flip 4 and Oppo Find N2 Flip.
 Alternatively, you can save some money and choose between the two best non-folding flagship phones available today — the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra and the Apple iPhone 14 Pro Max.
 Both have massive screens (admittedly contained in massive bodies), great cameras, and all the power and features you could want. They’ll last you for years.
Honor Magic Vs: 2 months later Andy Boxall/Digital Trends After the announcement of the U.K. price, I returned to the Magic Vs for a week to see if anything had changed over the two months since I first reviewed the phone. I reset the device to ensure a clean start, and a large update did arrive shortly after setting it back up. The new software seems to have squashed the bugs I noticed when I first used the phone, but it has not added an app drawer or increased app compatibility.
Worse, it doesn’t seem to have made a difference to the camera performance, and the wide-angle and 3x zoom modes are equally as disappointing this time around. This time I used the Magic Vs with a Google Pixel Watch connected to it, and this did affect battery life in a more negative way than I usually expect, which may point to the Magic Vs’s software not being as refined as other devices.
Is all this more forgivable when the price is lower than the Galaxy Z Fold 4? No, not really. You’re still paying a lot of money for the Magic Vs, and it’s reasonable to expect it to perform well in all areas — not just pin all its appeal on the flashy, slick hardware. The Galaxy Z Fold 4’s better camera, software, charging features, and durability make it worth spending the extra money.
That said, the software update does seem to have fixed some of the annoying bugs I noticed the first time around, and the low price is a good thing for the future of folding smartphones in general. For these reasons, the review’s score has been upgraded from a 5/10 to a 6/10. I still don’t think it’s a recommended buy, but it’s slightly better than it was.
Unrefined Honor Magic Vs can’t beat the Galaxy Z Fold 4 Honor Magic Vs (left) and Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Honor Magic Vs feels like it has arrived a little too soon, yet I first used the phone in November 2022, so this isn’t a brand new device that has just this moment come to life. Unfortunately, the software feels unfinished, only the main camera takes good photos, the battery life is only decent when you don’t push the phone too hard, and not all apps are optimized for the big screen. The Magic Vs is here, but it probably needed a little more time in the lab.
It’s unfortunate. The hardware is impressive, and the overall design looks excellent. But it’s hard to avoid the lack of dust resistance, wireless charging, and a hinge that doesn’t immediately lay flat. I had high hopes for the Honor Magic Vs when I first tried it, but after using it every day for several weeks, it has not managed to capitalize on this early goodwill.
This isn’t a terrible smartphone, but it suffers from various frustrating problems that see it fall far behind the industry behemoth that is the Galaxy Z Fold 4. The technically “old” processor is unfortunate, too, but you can’t fully dismiss the Magic Vs because of the temptingly low price. A series of software updates may help the Magic Vs in the future, but for now, it’s not quite the big-screen folding smartphone to buy.
Editors' Recommendations The new Honor Magic 5 Pro smartphone has a truly unusual design Honor pulls the Magic4 Pro out of its hat at MWC 2022 Honor Magic V could be a Galaxy Z Fold 3 rival with flagship cameras The Honor Magic V — foldable rival to the Fold 3 — finally gets a launch date Honor Magic V is the company’s first foldable to rival the Galaxy Z Fold 3 Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile Honor has announced the Magic 3 series, consisting of the Honor Magic 3, the Magic 3 Pro, and the Magic 3 Pro+. It’s the brand’s first flagship phone launch since becoming independent from Huawei, which has enabled it to strike up partnerships with a variety of companies including Qualcomm, Google, and Microsoft.
Honor CEO George Zhao holding the new Honor Magic 3 phones Image used with permission by copyright holder Mobile Newly independent phone maker Honor has announced a partnership with Qualcomm, confirming it will release a smartphone with the new Snapdragon 778G mobile processor in the near future, and a flagship phone with a top-flight Qualcomm chip at a later date. It’s an important step forward for Honor -- which was sold off by former owner Huawei in late 2020 -- in its efforts to return to the global phone market.
Prior to gaining its independence, Honor smartphones used Huawei-developed Kirin processors, just like Huawei’s phone range. When the U.S. government restricted American companies from doing business with Huawei, Kirin chip production was affected, and in turn, so was Honor. Huawei sold Honor to a consortium known as Shenzhen Zhixin New Information Technology in November 2020.
Mobile Honor has announced the global availability of its Honor Band 6 fitness tracker and the Honor MagicBook Pro Windows laptop. Both devices have already launched in China, but the company has used CES 2021 as a platform to confirm the wider launch. While Honor is best known for its smartphones, the company’s smartwatches, other wearables, and laptops have become increasingly important to it, due to the U.S. government’s restrictions on Huawei.
Honor Band 6 The Honor Band 6 is the latest in a long line of simple, but highly effective fitness bands from Honor. This time the design has changed considerably compared to the Honor Band 5, and shares more with the recently released Honor Band ES. It has a 1.47-inch AMOLED touchscreen attached to a silicone band with a proper clasp, rather than a simple pin-and-eye system seen on most low-cost fitness bands.
It comes with 10 workout tracking modes, including running, cycling, rowing, and swimming. The Honor Band 6 is water-resistant to 50 meters, and can be used in the pool, when it will return data including SWOLF and stroke rates. Additionally, the heart rate sensor on the back of the band works when swimming too. Beyond activity tracking, the band will monitor sleep if worn overnight, keep track of stress levels, and menstrual cycles too. It has a blood oxygen monitor, which is most helpful for sleep tracking purposes.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
