Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Motorola’s latest Android phone is (almost) a Google Pixel 8 killer By Joe Maring Close $600.00 Unique leather back Gorgeous curved display Solid day-to-day performance Good battery life 68-watt wired charging Slow cameras In-screen fingerprint sensor Only gets two software updates If you have $700 to spend and need a new smartphone, one of the best options you can find today is the Google Pixel 8.
 Google’s newest Pixel handset has a great design, excellent cameras, fantastic software, and surprisingly good battery life. It’s just a pleasure to use in almost every regard.
What I love about the Motorola Edge (2023) Where Motorola stumbles How it compares to the Google Pixel 8 Motorola Edge (2023) price and availability Should you buy the Motorola Edge (2023)? But Motorola’s latest phone makes things interesting for prospective Pixel 8 buyers. On October 10, just days after Google revealed the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro, Motorola announced a new Android phone of its own — the Motorola Edge (2023). It promises good design, cameras, software, and battery life, all for $100 less than the Pixel 8.
Is it all too good to be true? Is the Motorola Edge (2023) the Google Pixel 8 killer we didn’t know we needed? I used Motorola’s new phone to find out for myself, and I must admit that I’m impressed … mostly.
What I love about the Motorola Edge (2023) Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Motorola Edge (2023) makes an excellent first impression the second you take it out of the box. The matte aluminum frame is sleek and cool to the touch, and the screen curves over the left and right edges — making it look like there aren’t any bezels at all. I don’t have particularly strong feelings about flat versus curved displays, but the curves on the Motorola Edge add a touch of elegance that’s unexpected at this price.
I also quite like the back of the Motorola Edge (2023). Motorola chose vegan leather for the rear of the phone, and it feels excellent. It’s grippy, has a pleasant texture, and looks leagues better than the glossy plastic backs seen on other budget Android phones (I’m looking at you, OnePlus Nord N30 5G ). I wish Motorola offered more than the single Eclipse Black color, but overall, I have very little to criticize about this design.
Previous Next 1 4 Joe Maring / Digital Trends Joe Maring / Digital Trends Joe Maring / Digital Trends Joe Maring / Digital Trends Beyond the curved display and leather back, Motorola also got the smaller details right. The power and volume buttons feel nice, the speakers sound good (and get very loud), and there’s an IP68 rating for dust and water resistance — the same one you get on flagship smartphones like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
Speaking of the display, it’s excellent. Besides the curved edges, the 6.6-inch screen offers a pOLED panel with a 2400 x 1080 resolution, HDR10+ support, up to 1,200 nits of peak brightness, and a 144Hz refresh rate. It’s a fantastic screen with vibrant colors and plenty of brightness for regular use. You can force the refresh rate to run at 144Hz, but I’ve kept it in Auto mode — which runs it at up to 120Hz — and it’s looked great to my eyes. When Apple is still slapping 60Hz displays on its iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus , having 144Hz on the Motorola Edge (2023) feels pretty awesome.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends I’ve also been (mostly) impressed by the Motorola Edge’s performance. Powering the phone is a MediaTek Dimensity 7030 chipset. It’s one of the only phones in the world with this specific MediaTek chip, and it’s actually pretty good. Apps open quickly, the 8GB of RAM has done a great job with basic multitasking, and the Edge (2023) has held its own with various mobile games.
Having 144Hz on the Motorola Edge (2023) feels pretty awesome.
With graphics quality set to High and 60 frames per second (fps) enabled, Marvel Snap looks and runs great. Motorola’s phone also does a good job of playing Call of Duty: Mobile with High graphics and Max frame rate settings. Some menus take slightly longer to load compared to phones with a Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip, but it’s never been enough to seriously impact my enjoyment of the phone.
Lastly, I’d be remiss if I didn’t talk about battery life and charging. It’s a 4,400 mAh battery inside the Motorola Edge (2023), and in my testing, it’s typically enough to get me through a day and a half on a single charge. You can drain the battery in a single day if you really try, but with moderate app usage and some light gaming, a day and a half is much more likely.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends And when your battery does run dry, the Motorola Edge (2023) is able to charge up quickly thanks to 68-watt wired charging. Plug the phone in with a fully depleted battery, and you’re back up to 17% after just 10 minutes of charging. Thirty minutes on the charger takes you from zero to 52%, while getting all the way to 100% happens in about 55 minutes.
If you don’t mind sacrificing charge speed, you can also wirelessly charge the Edge (2023) at up to 15W. And if you want to top up another phone or a pair of wireless earbuds, you can place them on the back of the Motorola phone to use its 5W wireless power sharing. This is one of the better charging solutions on a smartphone at this price, and it’s a seriously huge benefit if you pick up the Motorola Edge (2023).
Where Motorola stumbles Joe Maring / Digital Trends Motorola got a lot right with the Edge (2023), but as with any phone, perfect it is not. In fact, there are a few big issues with the Motorola Edge.
The first has to do with the phone’s cameras. The Motorola Edge (2023) has two cameras on the back, including a 50MP main camera and a 13MP ultrawide camera. There’s also a 32MP selfie camera.
In good lighting conditions and with a steady hand, photos from the Motorola Edge (2023) can look fine. They typically look a bit flat without particularly impressive colors or details, but they’re certainly usable for posting on social media or sharing with friends.
These certainly aren’t the best photos I’ve taken with a smartphone this year, but they get the job done. The ultrawide camera is a bit worse than the main sensor, but if you need a wider view of your subject, it works.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends My main issue with the camera is how slow it is. Throughout my time with the Motorola Edge (2023), the actual photo-taking process hasn’t been an enjoyable one. The camera app can be slow to open, the shutter button has a noticeable pause between pressing it and when your photo is captured, and this often results in blurry or missed shots.
I’m not sure if the MediaTek processor is to blame or if this is poor optimization on Motorola’s part. Whatever the cause is, all I know is that it’s made taking pictures with the Motorola Edge (2023) pretty frustrating at times.
Speaking of slow, the phone’s in-screen fingerprint sensor isn’t always as quick as I’d like. It usually works, but there have been a few instances where it takes too long to scan my fingerprint or fails to identify it entirely. I’ve also noticed some instances where tapping notifications or swiping down to view my Quick Settings causes the phone to stutter a bit. It seems to happen more often if I try to do something on the phone very quickly after I pick it up — it’s almost like it takes it a second to “warm up” and start working as intended.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Finally, there’s the issue of software updates. The Motorola Edge (2023) ships with Android 13 and is promised just two Android OS upgrades — plus three years of bimonthly security patches. This isn’t the worst update policy we’ve ever seen on a Motorola phone, but it’s not good, either.
It especially stings considering that Android 14 has now been available since early October. After Motorola gets the Edge (2023) updated to Android 14, the only other big OS update you’ll ever see is to Android 15. Motorola has been getting better with how it updates its phones — most recently with the Motorola Edge Plus (2023) and Motorola Razr (2023) — but this is a disappointing step backward.
How it compares to the Google Pixel 8 Joe Maring / Digital Trends On its own, the Motorola Edge (2023) is a darn good smartphone. But the Motorola Edge doesn’t exist on its own. It was released right alongside the Google Pixel 8, and with a similar price, so it’s impossible not to compare the two. And it’s here where the pitch for Motorola’s phone starts to weaken.
Perhaps the biggest differentiator is the camera. The Google Pixel 8 takes much better photos than the Motorola Edge (2023). The 50MP main camera and 12MP ultrawide camera don’t sound much different on paper, but in practice, the gap between the two is clear. Google’s camera app is also much faster and more reliable, and there’s a whole world of AI photo-editing tools that crank it up to 11.
Google also has Motorola handily beat on the software front. Although the Android interfaces look largely the same on both phones, the Pixel 8 gives you so much more. From the Google Assistant holding your spot in line on a phone call, Now Playing automatically recognizing music playing in the background, or being able to summarize entire webpages into a few bullet points, the AI features you get on a Pixel are pretty incredible — and are legitimately difficult to live without on a non-Pixel Android phone.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends There’s also the matter of software updates. The Google Pixel 8 ships with Android 14 and is promised seven years of Android upgrades, feature drops, and security patches. In other words, the Pixel 8 will keep getting software updates through October 2030 — four years after the Motorola Edge (2023) receives its last security patch.
And then we have everything else. While the Motorola Edge (2023) has very nice hardware, the Google Pixel 8 edges it out. It has a much nicer vibration motor, the buttons feel clickier, and its extra weight (187 grams versus 168 grams) feels reassuring in your hand. You’ll also find that the Google Pixel 8’s Tensor G3 processor is more capable than the MediaTek chip in the Motorola Edge. The Pixel 8 generally feels smoother throughout daily use, and it also has much faster internal storage — UFS 3.1 compared to the UFS 2.2 storage Motorola opted for.
The Pixel 8 can’t match the Motorola phone when it comes to charging speed, and the Edge (2023) has a larger display, but those are really the only two areas where Motorola has a clear advantage.
Motorola Edge (2023) price and availability Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Motorola Edge (2023) is available for purchase right now from Motorola’s website, Amazon, Best Buy, and other retailers. It comes in just one configuration — the Eclipse Black color with 256GB of storage and 8GB of RAM.
You’ll find a retail price of $600 for the Motorola Edge (2023), which is $100 less than the $700 Google Pixel 8 and $200 cheaper than the $800 Samsung Galaxy S23.
 That’s already a good deal, but things get more interesting.
As part of a special launch offer, you can buy the Motorola Edge (2023) right now for just $500. It’s technically a limited-time promotion, but knowing how Motorola runs its sales, you should be able to get the Edge (2023) at this $500 sale price fairly often.
Should you buy the Motorola Edge (2023)? Joe Maring / Digital Trends OK — so what’s the final word on the Motorola Edge (2023)? Did Motorola knock it out of the park and create a phone you should buy instead of the Google Pixel 8? As with everything in life, it’s a bit complicated.
If you can buy the Motorola Edge at its discounted $500 price, I think there’s a really solid argument in the phone’s favor. At $200 cheaper than the Pixel 8, the Edge (2023) delivers a really solid smartphone experience — so long as you don’t mind some occasional performance issues and a lackluster camera. But if we’re looking at the Motorola Edge (2023) as a $600 smartphone, I don’t think the $100 in savings is enough to justify buying it over the Pixel 8.
The Edge (2023) delivers a really solid smartphone experience.
For folks who can afford it, there’s no denying that the Google Pixel 8 is the better overall choice. In fact, it’s one of the very best smartphones you can get right now. But if money is an object — and you can snag the Edge (2023) at its lower price — it’s worth considering. It may not be the undisputed Google Pixel 8 killer that Motorola hoped it would be, but it is a worthy alternative — and a phone that should be on your radar.
Editors' Recommendations Google is finally fixing an annoying issue with its Pixel phones The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new There might be something wrong with the Google Pixel Watch 2 Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it Google Pixel 8a: news, rumored price, release date, and more Android Google Pixel Motorola Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile Finding a bad Android phone is a rare occurrence these days. However, with so many options available, it can be daunting to choose the best one in 2023. In this article, we aim to help you find the answer to this question.
When looking to buy a new Android phone, there are many factors to consider. Do you prefer a large screen? How important is camera performance to you? Are you someone who enjoys gaming on your phone? Or do you need a long-lasting battery life? To assist you, we have compiled a list of Android phones that cater to everyone's needs, regardless of your preferences or priorities.
Mobile One of the most surprising additions to Google’s Pixel hardware in recent years is temperature sensing. The Google Pixel 8 Pro comes armed with a temperature sensor that can measure the temperature of objects simply by “scanning” them from an optimum distance within the five-centimeter range. Google says the sensor is good for “beverages, cooking pan, water temperature, and more.” The smartphone community, however, is seemingly hell-bent on relegating it to gimmick status. But average Pixel 8 Pro owners are finding cool ways to use it. As detailed in this Reddit post, one Pixel 8 Pro user was stuck in a stormy situation that took out the power supply for 36 hours, putting them in a quandary regarding the status of food items kept in an out-of-power refrigerator.
Mobile Qualcomm has revealed its new top-end mobile processor that will power the next wave of Android flagships in 2024. But this time around, the focus is not just on raw performance and camera enhancements. Instead, Qualcomm is turning its attention to generative AI and bringing it to smartphone users with an on-device approach. If you've played with products like ChatGPT and DALL.E image generator, well, prepare for such tricks to be available natively on your next Android phone.
At the heart of Qualcomm’s latest mobile processor is the next-gen Kryo core based on Arm’s Cortex-X4 that offers a clock speed of up to 3.3 GHz. It is claimed to be 30% faster than its predecessor while also being 20% more frugal at power intake. It is based on TSMC’s 4nm fabrication technology, which is a generation behind the 3nm stack deployed by Apple for the A17 Pro silicon powering the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
A leap in mobile gaming Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
