Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Motorola ThinkPhone review: all business, no fun, no sale By Andy Boxall Close $699.00 Two-day battery life ThinkPad-inspired design is fun Durable build Disappointing camera No always-on screen The Motorola ThinkPhone, or the “ThinkPhone by Motorola” as it’s also known, was launched as a business phone at CES 2023. At the time, there was no intention to sell it to the general public.
Motorola ThinkPhone: design Motorola ThinkPhone: software Motorola ThinkPhone: screen and performance Motorola ThinkPhone: battery Motorola ThinkPhone: camera Motorola ThinkPhone: price and availability Motorola ThinkPhone: verdict If you saw it at the time and were disappointed about not being able to own one, Motorola has since done a U-turn and said you and I can purchase it directly, whether we want it for business purposes or not. But does the original business-focused sales pitch mean it’s not worth buying if you just want it for social media and selfies? I’ve found out.
Motorola’s newest folding phone is cheaper than the iPhone 15 Motorola’s folding phone just had a durability test — and it’s painful to watch This leaked Motorola phone looks like the foldable of my dreams Motorola ThinkPhone: design Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The ThinkPhone name ties the phone in with the famous IBM ThinkPad laptops (a brand that Motorola’s owner, Lenovo , also owns), and its release coincides with the 30th anniversary of the ThinkPad name. Motorola has borrowed several design elements for the phone from those well-known laptops that are popular with business types. For example, take a look at the red button on the side that evokes the red track button in the center of the keyboard on a ThinkPad, along with the font used for the angled ThinkPhone logo on the back. It’s a good-looking phone, and I love the carbon-like rear panel, an effect that continues into the camera module.
The flat-sided chassis is made of aluminum, while the rear panel is aramid fiber,which is the same material as Kevlar and makes it strong and light. It’s soft, warm, and grippy, and the slim 8mm chassis is easy and comfortable to hold. The ThinkPhone weighs 189 grams and has an IP68 water- and dust-resistance rating, so all of this combined means it should prove very durable. The red button can be programmed to activate different functions, and by default, it’s linked to Motorola’s Ready For feature, where the phone can be connected to a PC or monitor.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The flat screen eschews the frivolousness of a curved screen that we expect to see on a flagship device. This is built for spreadsheets and important calls — not Fortnite and tweeting, remember. It comes in one color, Carbon Black.
I’ve found the ThinkPhone to be an excellent everyday device; it’s barely noticeable in your bag or pocket, and the choice of materials means it doesn’t slide around on a table. The low weight and sensible dimensions mean it’s never fatiguing to hold. The few design nods to the ThinkPad are cool, but it’s not a visual competitor to the OnePlus 11 , the Samsung Galaxy S23 , or the Google Pixel 7 Pro.
What did strike me is that although it’s a bit simple for consumers, it’s perhaps a bit over-the-top for the business world. Tying it into the famed IBM ThinkPad brand is fun, but I’d be surprised if any businesses cared about nostalgia when putting together a bulk order of dozens, perhaps hundreds of new phones. It’s an odd middle ground, where the nostalgic design isn’t quite impactful enough for consumers and probably inconsequential to businesses. It leaves the ThinkPhone in a no man’s land, where the design is not really appealing to anyone.
Motorola ThinkPhone: software Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends If the Motorola ThinkPhone was originally conceived as a business phone, does this mean it’s full of business tools and apps that will be irrelevant to you? No, and in fact, if I didn’t know about the ThinkPhone’s business aspirations, I’d never have guessed. It operates and works like any other Motorola Android phone and the business-oriented features that are there are never pushed.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Like what? Motorola’s Ready For, which works a little like Samsung’s DeX , lets you connect the phone to a PC and make use of screen mirroring, app streaming, fast file transfers, and notifications on both screens — plus the ability to use your phone as a webcam.
Motorola’s ThinkShield for Mobile security platform is also available, but this either runs silently in the background or ia part of an entire solution for a business. In other words, you don’t have to worry about it or any of the other mobile management tools Motorola provides to its business customers here.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Otherwise, the ThinkPhone has Android 13 with a selection of Motorola interface tweaks. There are plenty of customization options, from overall themes to changing the design of the icons, but it largely follows Google’s Material You design philosophy. Notifications are swiped down into view from the home screen, Google Discover is found to the left of the home screen, and apps can be placed into massive folders. Motorola has its own floating shortcut button, plus gestures including a “karate chop” motion to turn on the flashlight and a flip for Do Not Disturb, but they’re all optional.
I don’t like the annoying favorites app that appears in the dock, which cycles through previously used apps and needlessly takes up space, but worst of all is the lack of an always-on display. There’s no excuse for not providing this as an option when the hardware supports it, but there’s no such feature on the ThinkPhone. It’s very frustrating when even the iPhone provides an informative always-on screen today. Another disappointment is the complete lack of any IBM ThinkPad-style design nods in the software, which would have helped give it some personality for fans.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Motorola has promised three years of major Android version updates and four years of security updates with the ThinkPhone. This puts it in the same league as the Google Pixel range, but it still falls slightly behind OnePlus’ and Samsung’s even lengthier commitments. It’s still good news, though, and should mean the phone will last for at least this period of time without it suddenly becoming out of date. That’s good for businesses and you.
Motorola ThinkPhone: screen and performance Andy Boxall/Digital Trends There really is no excuse for not giving the ThinkPhone (or any other Moto phone ) an always-on screen, as it has a technically suitable 6.5-inch pOLED screen on the front. It’s lovely, with a 2400 x 1080 pixel resolution, a smooth 144Hz refresh rate, and a peak brightness of 1200 nits. I’ve had no problem seeing it outside on sunny days and have left the refresh rate on automatic mode without issue. I may not like the flat glass, but the screen looks great, with vibrant colors, and the dual speakers sound decent too.
This makes the ThinkPhone a good multimedia device, and the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 processor and 8GB of RAM make it excellent for games, too. I’ve played through Asphalt 9: Legends without seeing any slowdown or judder. The screen’s ambient light sensor is a little dim-witted, as it sometimes likes to very slowly dim the screen when I’m trying to read, even when Motorola’s Peek Display feature — which keeps the screen on when it “sees” you looking at it — is active.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I’ve not had any performance issues with the ThinkPhone, and consider the Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 an extremely capable processor, but it has been superseded by the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 as Qualcomm’s top chip. This presents a problem for the ThinkPhone, as the far more consumer-friendly, interesting, and similarly priced OnePlus 11 uses the Gen 2, as does the Galaxy S23. The amount of money you’d save by getting the ThinkPhone is negated by the fact it’s technically running a processor that’s a year old, and one of the moderately more expensive alternatives has the potential to last you longer.
Calls sound loud and clear, and I’ve had no complaints from the other party either. Connectivity — over Wi-Fi, 4G, and 5G — has been rock solid. These fundamental features matter for both businesses and consumers, and the ThinkPhone keeps up with the best.
Motorola ThinkPhone: battery Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The combination of a 5,000mAh battery and the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 processor is a winning one, as the chip’s already-established efficiency makes the most of the battery’s considerable capacity. With normal use, ranging from video calls to short periods of gaming (less than 15 minutes), for a daily screen time of around three hours, the battery hasn’t fallen below 50% by the end of the day. That’s starting out around 7:30 a.m. and turning it off around midnight. I’ve easily got two days of full use from the ThinkPhone on a single charge.
Show it some intensive games, and it still has to work hard, but 30 minutes of playing still doesn’t take much more than 8% to 10% of battery. Running the 3DMark Wild Life Extreme Stress Test illustrates its ability, as the 20-minute repeated sequence took 15% from the battery in one go, which is a strong performance, especially when the device’s temperature increases considerably. Play video for around 40 minutes, and the battery drops by only a few percent.
The battery life and efficiency is easily one of the ThinkPhone’s strongest aspects.
Included in the box is a 68-watt TurboPower wired charger, and the phone also has 15W wireless charging. It takes 15 minutes to reach around 60% and about 40 minutes to fully charge. It makes the ThinkPhone one of the fastest-charging smartphones you can buy and a rival to the OnePlus 11. The battery life, the phone’s efficiency, and the fast charging are some of the ThinkPhone’s strongest reasons to buy it — but they aren’t unique.
Motorola ThinkPhone: camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Motorola ThinkPhone has a 50-megapixel main camera with optical image stabilization (OIS), a 13MP wide-angle camera, and a depth sensor. That’s it, no attention-grabbing industry partnerships like the OnePlus 11 or Xiaomi 13 Pro , and it doesn’t have an optical zoom like the iPhone 14 Pro and Galaxy S23. If you shoot video, it will do so at up to 8K resolution, plus there’s a 32MP selfie camera at the top center of the screen.
Just because the camera setup is modest in comparison to its competition, does that mean the photos are bad? No, they’re not, provided your expectations aren’t high. The main camera takes decent photos of food, items, and flowers. But show it a more complex scene, and it introduces noise, while photos can lack quite a lot of detail.
Previous Next 1 15 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Portrait mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Macro mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Night mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The wide-angle camera is the same, with a distinct lack of detail when you zoom in and noise in areas where it should be sharp. Consistency is decent, though, and the camera seems to get exposure right. However, it struggles with focus when you try to get up-close to some objects and it doesn’t automatically switch to the macro mode. Macro is surprisingly good, and you could have fun with the feature. By default, selfies employ skin smoothing and have a habit of washing out skin tones.
It’s not an awful camera, but its performance won’t encourage you to do much more than take a few fun snaps. If the camera needs to be good on your next smartphone, look at the Pixel 7 or Pixel 7 Pro instead — or the ThinkPhone’s other main rivals from Samsung and OnePlus.
Motorola ThinkPhone: price and availability Andy Boxall/Digital Trends You can buy an unlocked Motorola ThinkPhone directly from Motorola for $700, and it doesn’t matter if you’re a business customer or not. If you are a business and want to buy the ThinkPhone for your staff, you can also do so, and the pricing will vary.
The ThinkPhone has a competitive price, and on the face of it, represents decent value. However, it’s the same price as the OnePlus 11, $100 less than the Galaxy S23 and the iPhone 14, and $200 less than the Pixel 7 Pro. All of these phones are better buys than the Motorola ThinkPhone, as they are more enticing to consumers — with great cameras, lots of performance, and features that may actually help you on a daily basis.
You could also spend less and get a phone that’s almost as good, like the Samsung Galaxy A54 , or one with a stronger camera, like the Google Pixel 6a.
 Sure, none have a hint of ThinkPad about them, but they’re a whole lot more interesting and enticing in almost all other aspects. None of this is the ThinkPhone’s fault because it’s supposed to be a business phone , not a consumer phone. Do consider this before putting your money down for one.
Motorola ThinkPhone: verdict Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Let me make this clear: There is nothing wrong with the Motorola ThinkPhone. It’s a perfectly serviceable, durable smartphone with two-day battery life and a nostalgic design nod to a popular laptop line. But that’s all it is. The few cute ThinkPad design elements just aren’t enough to make it desirable to many outside of the die-hard IBM fan base. Everyone else will get far more from the OnePlus 11 or the Galaxy S23, and each will last longer too.
Exactly why Motorola has gone back on its original announcement that the ThinkPhone would only be a business phone isn’t known, but the push was a new move for the company, and this sudden switch may mean Motorola’s B2B aspirations are taking a while to take off. This is speculation, but if the ThinkPhone hasn’t excited the business world — where it actually makes good sense with its durable body, long battery life, great call quality, and robust security options — I’m not sure it has what it takes to excite the consumer world either.
If you’ve long dreamed of a ThinkPad-inspired smartphone, or want a phone that an informed few will think you’re being forced to use by your company, the ThinkPhone is for you. For everyone else, it’ll be wiser to buy a smartphone designed expressly for you as a consumer, not one made to kick-start a brand’s business aspirations.
Editors' Recommendations This amazing concept phone from Motorola just made my jaw drop Motorola just launched 3 new Android phones, and they look incredible Motorola’s newest phone has something we’ve never seen before Motorola Edge vs. iPhone 11: Which budget flagship device reigns supreme? Motorola Edge Plus vs. iPhone 11 Pro Max: Two big phones clash Motorola Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile The second age of the flip phone has arrived with Motorola's new Razr combining a futuristic folding screen with a distinctly retro form. Not to be outdone, Samsung unveiled the Galaxy Z Flip at its Samsung Galaxy Unpacked event. Which of these new foldable phones is going to grab your attention? Let's see exactly how the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip measures up against the Motorola Razr.
Specs Galaxy Z Flip Motorola Razr Mobile Are foldable phones the future? The Samsung Galaxy Fold and Huawei Mate X are two examples of what future smartphones could look like, with tablet-sized screens hidden beneath a fold. But what if the future doesn't mean making even bigger screens, but instead shrinking down the size of our existing displays? Motorola has revealed the new Motorola Razr, and it's a foldable phone with a twist. Borrowing heavily from the classic Motorola Razr V3's design, the new Motorola Razr asks why we can't simply make big phones smaller again by folding a 6.2-inch screen into a smaller package. Here's everything you need to know about the foldable Motorola Razr phone.
Mobile A new year approaches, which means a new slate of smartphones will start to hit in a few months. One of the first that we’ll see in 2024 should be from OnePlus with its flagship OnePlus 12.
The OnePlus 11 is an excellent phone, as we indicated in our review. It’s one of the best phones you can get in 2023, and is right up there with great competitors like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, Google Pixel 8 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
