Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Using this new Android phone made me miss my Pixel 7 By Andy Boxall Close $449.00 At least two days' battery life Main camera takes fun photos Fast wired and wireless charging Software lacks polish Design lacks appeal There are some phones that leave no real lasting impression at all, and I’ve been using one for the last week. It’s the Poco F5 Pro, and it’s terribly mature, sensible, and painfully ordinary. Does this mean it’s a bad phone? No, it has been perfectly reliable — and, without a doubt, the best Poco phone I’ve used. But the lack of character made me miss phones like the Google Pixel 7 , which is one of its natural competitors.
The problem with Poco’s design It’s a good camera, but that’s not enough Plenty of specs, but are they enough? Price and availability I don’t know who Poco is It’s not that the Pixel 7 is vastly superior, but it’s more about the allure of living dangerously since we’ve seen the Pixel could decide to be “exciting” at any moment.
 While using the F5 Pro, I’ve missed the crazy lights on the back of the Nothing Phone 1 in the same way. The thing is, I’m used to Poco making brightly colored, recognizable phones or ones that have crazy magnetic shoulder buttons — not phones like the F5 Pro. Without some silliness, I don’t get the Poco brand at all. Let’s get into the F5 Pro a bit more.
Google Pixel 8 Pro users are finding weird ways to use the phone Motorola just launched a new Android phone to take on the Pixel 8 Motorola just launched 3 new Android phones, and they look incredible The problem with Poco’s design Nothing Phone 1 (top left), Poco F5 Pro (top center), Google Pixel 7 (top right) and the Samsung Galaxy A54 (lower center).
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The F5 Pro is Poco’s highest specification device to date, as the brand is more known for mid-range hardware with flashy features sold at a competitive price (and aimed at young people wanting a fun, eye-catching phone).
The F5 Pro is not like that. The glossy white back panel is classy and expensive-looking, the glass camera array is encased in a slanted, brushed metal module, and the phone comes in black or white without a hint of retina-searing yellow in sight.
It’s nearly 9mm thick, it weighs 204 grams, has an IP53 water and dust resistance rating, stereo speakers that sound good, and a reliable in-display fingerprint sensor. It’s only Gorilla Glass 5 over the screen, which is fine, but it’s a shame the glass is flat. I know some people don’t like curved glass, but it’s more comfortable to hold (when the chassis is well-designed), and it looks much better visually. The flat glass and simple rear panel make the Poco F5 Pro a bit boring to look at.
Previous Next 1 2 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends This is where Google succeeds with the Pixel 7. It looks excellent, with evidence of real thought in the design and a recognizable camera module that has become the “face” of the Pixel range.
 It’s the same situation with the Nothing Phone 1, a mid-range phone you’ll never mistake for anything else. The F5 Pro is a phone, but not a Poco phone, and that’s bad news. Without a hint of silliness or an attempt to be interesting, its strengths risk being ignored.
This is further compounded by its close family. Poco is a sub-brand of Xiaomi, and the trouble is that sensible Poco joins sensible Redmi, the other sub-brand of equally sensible Xiaomi. At least when Poco was a bit mad, it made sense as a separate brand. But now, I don’t know why I’d choose it over another phone from Xiaomi’s family. Worse, without some individual identity in the design, it doesn’t look much fun next to the more eye-catching Nothing Phone 1, Galaxy A54 , or the Pixel 7.
It’s a good camera, but that’s not enough Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s a 64-megapixel main camera on the back, and it’s really the only one you need to pay attention to, as it’s joined by a pointless 2MP macro camera and an often disappointing 8MP wide-angle camera.
 The one good thing about the main and wide-angle combination here is the consistency of color, as both cameras take similar-looking images. That doesn’t always happen, so it’s good to see.
The main camera is tuned in the way I’d expect from a Xiaomi phone, with strong colors and heavy-handed saturation, but this does give photos a fun and vibrant tone. It also makes them great for sharing online, as in the right environment, they really pop. There’s no optical zoom, but the 2x mode in the camera app isn’t a disaster at all, and the camera is even good in low light, avoiding too much smoothing out without adding masses of noise.
Previous Next 1 12 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Portrait Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Night Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 2x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends If you really examine the photos critically, then in some circumstances, it can wash colors out — but it’s not a dealbreaker on a phone like this. Remember, it’s not being billed as a camera phone. In fact, I don’t really know what it’s being billed as , which ends up being part of the overall issue. The camera is good, but not a reason to buy it over anything else, and without any effort to make it stand out (the 8MP wide-angle and 2MP macro are pure laziness), it’s just another part of the phone that’s merely solid.
We’ve moved past congratulating phones about a camera taking some good pictures. We expect phones to take good photos at this stage, and there really needs to be something beyond this to capture attention. Gimmicks aren’t the answer, but some effort to set it apart would help the F5 Pro no end.
Plenty of specs, but are they enough? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Maybe Poco is going for power to make the F5 Pro appeal? Many people value the basic specification over anything else, and the Poco phone doesn’t disappoint. The Qualcomm Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 processor continues to be superb, not just brimming with power but also still impressing with its efficiency. It’s great here, paired with a massive 5,160mAh battery, which I’ve had running for almost three days without charging. That’s with about three hours of screen time each day and no gaming. Add some games and up the daily use to more than four hours, and two days is still easily achievable.
Oddly, Poco hasn’t pushed the F5 Pro as a gaming smartphone, despite the processor’s ability, the battery’s power, and the bright 6.67-inch AMOLED screen. The display is filled with tech, too, with a 120Hz refresh rate, 480Hz touch sampling, a 3,200 x 1,440 resolution, and a 1,400 nits peak brightness. When I’ve played games, they look and sound really good, and Asphalt 9: Legends delivers the speed and smoothness I expect. Video is sharp, colorful, and smooth, plus there’s Dolby Atmos to enhance the speakers.
Previous Next 1 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends There’s plenty more too. The phone has NFC for Google Pay, 5G , 30W wireless charging, and 67W fast wired charging. This adds 50% in 15 minutes and fully charges the battery in about 45 minutes. Poco has added a new LiquidCool vapor chamber to keep device temperatures in check, which also helps with its efficiency, and I’ve not had any issues with heat. I’ve not once picked up the Poco F5 Pro and lamented the lack of some crucial feature, but I have picked it up and wondered who would buy it.
I can live with the software, but it’s not my favorite interpretation of Android 13. Poco uses a slightly customized version of Xiaomi’s MIUI 14, with different icons and some brighter colors, but it seems to work in the same way. This means you get a lot of feature suggestions in the notification shade, various pre-installed apps, some system instability, and the hateful split pull-down menu where it’s notifications on one side and quick settings on the other.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s not as slick as Android on a Pixel and not as mature or visually pleasing as Android on the Galaxy A54, but if you can forgive the slightly childish color scheme, it’s fine. What it’s not is unique, as it’s not that different from MIUI on a Xiaomi or Redmi phone, and you can easily customize it to look exactly like it if you want. If you choose a phone by ticking spec boxes on a list, then the F5 Pro will probably satisfy, but outside of the processor, it’s fairly standard. It reminds me of phones like the OnePlus 10T , which appear to have everything you could want but don’t really do anything interesting with it.
Price and availability The Poco F5 Pro costs $449 in its basic 8GB/256GB form, but if you’re quick to jump on it, there’s a $429 early bird price for a limited time. It’ll be released in the U.K., Western Europe, Central and Latin America, and parts of Asia. The price puts it up against the Samsung Galaxy A54, the Google Pixel 7, and likely the Google Pixel 7a too.
I don’t know who Poco is Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Poco F5 Pro is a very capable smartphone. The performance and efficiency are top-notch, the main camera takes fun photos, the mature design means it’ll look good wherever it goes, and the battery lasts two days. I should be telling you to buy it, and in a way I am, but not before you’ve had a good, long, hard look at the Google Pixel 7 and the Samsung Galaxy A54 (plus the Nothing Phone 1 if it’s available where you live). They are all equally capable but have something special and interesting about them, which gives them more character and a stronger reason to buy than the F5 Pro.
I’m sure many will be thinking they don’t need their phone to have any character, and while I agree, it’s important for a brand to make their devices appealing in some way. The fact the F5 Pro doesn’t scream “Poco” means if I’d been told this was a Xiaomi or a Redmi phone, I wouldn’t have questioned it. It also means when I use the phone, I think about all the other phones that are just as good but also have something about them that makes them special and wonder why I’m not using them instead.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The F5 Pro is Poco’s best phone yet, and if you want it, I don’t think you’ll be disappointed. The trouble is, there’s nothing outside of general competence — good performance, strong battery life, capable main camera — to make you really want it, and when I swap my SIM to another phone, I’d be surprised if I remember anything much about the F5 Pro in a few days time.
The smartphone landscape is immensely competitive. Poco needs to find an identity and stick to it if it wants to separate itself from Xiaomi and Redmi and encourage people to choose its phones over some very strong competition from outside the family. The F5 Pro is a good phone that, unfortunately, leaves me cold.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it See how the Pixel 8 Pro handles the bend test that broke the new iPhone Best Google Pixel 7 Pro deals: Get one of the best phones for free This is one of the most important new Android phones of 2023 The Pixel 8 may fix two of my biggest complaints about the Pixel 7 Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile The Google Pixel series of phones, specifically the Pixel 6 and Pixel 7, have an exclusive feature called Magic Eraser. With Magic Eraser, you can get rid of unwanted objects in a photo, such as people in the background or things like power lines. As of today, Magic Eraser is becoming available to all Android phones and iPhone users through Google One.
Magic Eraser debuted on the Pixel 6 lineup, which includes the Pixel 6, Pixel 6 Pro, and the more affordable Pixel 6a, which is still available to purchase (the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro have been discontinued). If you have a Pixel 7 or Pixel 7 Pro, you also have the Magic Eraser feature. One of the reasons I had always wanted a Pixel device is because of Magic Eraser, and it is something that I desperately wished Apple would implement.
Mobile When deciding to invest in a new smartphone, most people want to make sure that the device they're buying can withstand the wear and tear of daily use. Unfortunately, it looks like the Google Pixel 7 Pro may not fare too well in the long run.
A recent durability test video posted by YouTuber JerryRigEverything showed that there are two major problems that Pixel 7 Pro owners might want to keep in mind over the device's lifespan: the poor durability of the camera bar, and how easily the phone's frame can bend.
Mobile As we've gotten closer to the launch window for the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro, we've had something of a drip-feed of information both from official announcements from Google as well as unofficial information in the form of leaks. A new leak now provides some unconfirmed information about the pricing of the Pixel 7 and the Pixel 7 Pro.
According to Android Police founder Artem Russakovskii, the Pixel 7 will retail starting at $599, while the Pixel 7 Pro will start at $899. These prices are exactly in line with what the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro cost when they launched last year, so it's nice to see that Google is likely staying the course as other flagship devices are starting to see price hikes.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
