Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews This Android phone is (almost) a great Google Pixel 7a alternative By Andy Boxall Close $529.00 Classy design Interesting camera zoom feature Fast 100W wired charging Slim and lightweight No IP rating Terrible selfie camera Irritating auto brightness adjustment I’ve been feeling very warmly toward mid-range smartphones recently, with the Samsung Galaxy A54 leaving a very good impression and the Google Pixel 7a making me wonder why I’d need a more expensive device at all.
It has the looks The screen almost wins The software is a bit annoying Does it take good photos? Battery, charging, and performance Price and availability Lots to learn from all sides The Realme 11 Pro+ is priced similarly to these phones, so can it continue the trend? It has the looks Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Realme 11 Pro+ beats the Galaxy A54 and the Pixel 7a in the looks department, but only if you get it in the Sunrise Beige color scheme in our photos. It’s a real beauty, and the fake leather rear panel (complete with fake stitching) is a really pleasant surprise on a phone at this price. It’s warm to the touch, tactile, grippy, and doesn’t get covered in fingerprints. Realme makes no secret about it being penned by a former Gucci designer, but name-dropping aside, the Realme 11 Pro+ is a seriously classy-looking device.
In addition to the Sunrise Beige version I’ve used, the phone also comes in an Oasis Green shade that shares the fake leather rear panel and a standard Astral Black version too. The black model is thinner and lighter than the fake leather models, measuring 8.2mm thick and 183 grams, compared to 8.7mm and 189 grams for the fake leather versions. You probably won’t notice much difference, as the Realme 11 Pro+ is slim and light regardless of the model you buy.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Durability is a little bit of a concern, though. The screen is covered in “double-reinforced glass,” according to Realme, but don’t expect branded Gorilla Glass here. It doesn’t have any form of IP rating either, so there’s no splash or dust resistance. A transparent case is included in the box, and it’s probably very wise to use it.
The screen almost wins Andy Boxall/Digital Trends On paper, the Realme 11 Pro+’s screen is a real winner on any phone, let alone a mid-range model. It’s a 6.7-inch AMOLED with a 120Hz refresh rate, a 2412 x 1080 refresh rate, and 2160Hz PWM dimming for reduced flicker. It looks great for video but does have that typical cool, blue tint that comes with similar panels — and is nowhere near as warm as an iPhone 14 Pro’s screen, for example.
I like that it’s curved down the sides, and the bezel at the bottom is really small, as it adds to the expensive look and feel of the phone. It’s suitably bright, and only in very strong sunlight does it become a little difficult to see what’s going on. I’ve had no problems with the in-display fingerprint sensor for security either, and there’s face unlock too.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends All this is excellent, but the screen is let down by Realme’s incredibly aggressive brightness control.
Multiple times a day, the screen will dim down to its lowest level, often in normal conditions. Either the ambient light sensor isn’t doing its job very well, or Realme’s software prioritizes battery life at all costs. Whatever the reason, it’s infuriating, and I’ve ended up turning the auto adjustment off entirely. There’s no need for Realme to tune the auto brightness adjustment this way, as it ruins user-friendliness.
The software is a bit annoying Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Realme 11 Pro Plus has Android 13 with Realme UI 4.0 installed. It’s very similar to Oppo’s ColorOS and OnePlus’s OxygenOS but a bit less user-friendly. Thankfully Realme has cut down the number of annoying system notifications from previous versions, so it mostly leaves you alone, but the way it’s set up out of the box means it requires work to make it easier to live with.
For example, by default, the Drawer mode includes a personalized search bar, app suggestions, and displays the keyboard immediately when you pull it into view. The auto brightness adjustment annoyed me the most, but this comes a close second.
Muscle memory means I open the Drawer and swipe up again to scroll through the list of apps, but the setup here means, instead, I swipe, type something by accident, and then have to tap and clear the search bar before finding my app. Dig into the Settings menu, and all this can be turned off, but why it’s all active by default is beyond me.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends When I set up the phone, it hid the automatic installation of at least a dozen games inside the “review additional apps” screen, something no other phone does, plus there are more than 25 pre-installed apps and games, both from Realme and third parties, already. This borders on the unacceptable. It’s not all bad news, though, and I like Realme UI’s always-on-screen options, the speed of the operating system, and its general reliability.
However, the overall brilliance of Android on the Google Pixel 7a was a big reason why I didn’t feel the need to change it to a different phone when I used it, but the shortcomings and frustrations of Realme UI mean I won’t miss the 11 Pro+ in the same way. It looks like Realme will provide two years of Android updates and three years of security updates, which falls way behind Samsung’s four and five-year commitments.
Does it take good photos? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Pixel 7a takes fantastic photos , and the Galaxy A54 is no slouch either.
 Realme has done something different with the 11 Pro+’s camera to make sure it captures attention — it has a 200-megapixel main camera with a 2x and 4x “lossless” zoom mode. This isn’t an optical zoom but instead uses the massive pixel count of the 200MP main sensor to crop images without losing quality.
This feature certainly separates the Realme 11 Pro+ from the competition, and the good news is it’s moderately successful, too, provided you don’t expect it to take on the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
 The 2x zoom setting is far less pixelated than the 4x, and although it’s not perfectly sharp, it’s more than acceptable. You can use the Realme 11 Pro+’s zoom modes with some confidence, and that’s a big deal on a phone without a telephoto camera.
Previous Next 1 8 Wide-angle Image used with permission by copyright holder Main camera Image used with permission by copyright holder 2x zoom Image used with permission by copyright holder 4x zoom Image used with permission by copyright holder Wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Main camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 2x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 4x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Continuing with the zoom features, you can take a single 200MP photo, and the software automatically crops the image down to zoom in on key features, then saves them as individual images. It reminds me of Samsung’s Single Take mode but is let down by the quality of the 200MP photos themselves, which can be harshly exposed and overly saturated. The other two cameras on the phone are an 8MP wide-angle and a 2MP macro camera, neither of which inspires.
There are times when the main camera does take good photos, especially if you want to share them on social media, and the inclusion of optical image stabilization (OIS) is great to see. But there are quite a few problems that arise the longer you use the camera. Reliability is an issue, where it will fail to properly focus or produces blurry shots for no reason, and the consistency across the main and wide-angle camera is poor, plus lowlight capabilities are nowhere near that of the Pixel 7a.
Previous Next 1 18 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 4x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Realme 11 Pro+ 2x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 4x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 4x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 2x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Worst of all is the 32MP selfie camera, which washes everything out to the point where I assume it’s broken. It’s easily one of the worst selfie cameras I’ve ever used. The Realme 11 Pro+’s camera has potential, but it’s unreliable and inconsistent, and the selfie camera is a disaster, making it tough to recommend for anything more than casual fun.
Battery, charging, and performance Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The battery has a 5,000mAh capacity and 100W wired charging, but the phone does not have wireless charging. This isn’t an essential feature, but more phones are including it, with the Google Pixel 7a and the Samsung Galaxy A54 featuring both wired and wireless charging. However, when the wired charging takes the battery to full in just under 30 minutes, do you really need the convenience of inevitably slower wireless charging too? Realme has worked with MediaTek for the 11 Pro+, and it uses the Dimensity 7050 processor with either 8GB or 12GB of RAM and 128GB or 256GB of storage space. For everything except gaming, it returns strong, solid power and will handle normal apps, social networking, calls, and video without an issue. I’ve been reviewing the Realme 11 Pro+ with 12GB of RAM.
Wired charging takes the battery to full in just under 30 minutes.
Gaming is not its forte, and although Asphalt 9: Legends is perfectly playable, there is some slight slowdown when the screen is busy. It isn’t designed to run hardcore games for hours and struggled to maintain a decent frame rate even in the 3DMark benchmarking app’s easier tests. If you expect to play some of the top titles for hours, this may not be the phone for you.
The fact it leans more toward general use is reflected in the time the battery lasts. With around two or three hours of screen time each day, provided you don’t play games, it will last two full days. Add more than an hour of games and video streaming into this, and it may even struggle to last a single, full day. I’ve been using the Realme 11 Pro+ linked to a Garmin smartwatch, so this should also be taken into account, but overall it provides similar battery life to the competition.
Price and availability Oasis Green Image used with permission by copyright holder The Realme 11 Pro+ has been announced for India, where it’s available to buy now. It’s possible the phone will launch in Europe and the U.K. in the future, but no release plans have been made official yet. Realme does not sell its smartphones in the U.S. The 12GB/512GB Realme 11 Pro+ costs $529.
This makes it more expensive than the $499 Galaxy A54 and the $449 Google Pixel 7a — and substantially more than the still available (and still worth buying) $399 Google Pixel 6a.
 The classy design, faster charging, and camera zoom features are strong reasons to give the Realme 11 Pro+ a try, but it’s really let down by some of the software, the selfie camera, and the lack of IP rating and other toughness features.
What if you own the Realme 10 Pro+ ? The prequel hasn’t been out very long (because Realme is addicted to making phones ), but the design is much more attractive, and the camera’s zoom features are completely new. The price is quite a lot higher this time around, though, and the core specs aren’t much different at all, so few will find a compelling reason to upgrade just yet.
Lots to learn from all sides Realme 11 Pro+ (left) and Google Pixel 7a (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Google, Samsung, Motorola, and HMD Global could all learn from Realme about the value of taking the time to design a great-looking smartphone in this price range. I think the Realme 11 Pro+ looks excellent, and I love the way the fake leather makes the phone feel when I’m holding it. It’s also good to see a different, fun new feature on a mid-range camera. The zoom mode isn’t perfect, but it’s far more interesting and useful than gimmicky features that apply to only a few people.
Realme needs to pay attention to its software though, which almost ruins the 11 Pro+ for me, and to ensure that spending extra on the design doesn’t overly impact other key features. The terrible selfie camera is unforgivable these days, and the lack of an IP rating takes away confidence. I realize a mid-range phone can’t have everything, but there has to be a sensible balance.
Having enjoyed various mid-range phones recently, how has the Realme 11 Pro+ compared, and is it further evidence of a resurgence in this crucial, sometimes under-served space? I’d definitely still choose the Google Pixel 7a over the Realme 11 Pro+, but the superior design and ergonomics may make me think twice about buying the Galaxy A54 over it. Despite its faults, the Realme 11 Pro+ adds just enough to the growing range of affordable, interesting phones out today to save it.
Editors' Recommendations Google is finally fixing an annoying issue with its Pixel phones The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it Google Pixel 8 Pro users are finding weird ways to use the phone OnePlus is about to put the Google Pixel 8 Pro to shame Android Google Pixel Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile Can the Google Pixel 8 Pro even Survive 7 YEARS?! - Durability Test! Another new smartphone means another new durability test from Zack Nelson of the popular YouTube channel JerryRigEverything.
Mobile Technology always has something new on the horizon. For instance, just a few days after the launch of the Google Pixel 8 and Google Pixel 8 Pro, a new leak has emerged about the rumored Google Pixel 8a smartphone that could perhaps be released early next year.
In at least the second leak about the Pixel 8a, Smart Prix has published renderings of the new phone. The renders suggest the Pixel 8a will feature a 6.1-inch flat screen with a hole punch camera cut out. The back shows a visor that contains two camera sensors. Based on the leaked renders, the phone's dimensions will be 152.1 by 72.6 by 8.99mm, compared to the Pixel 7a's 152.4 by 72.9 by 9.0mm.
Mobile The Google Pixel 8 and Google Pixel 8 Pro have been getting a lot of positive words since its debut a few days ago. This time around, it's not just the hardware that's getting good feedback, but also the software tricks that throw AI and advanced camera processing chops into the mix.
Of course, Google is offering a few benefits that further sweeten the deal for buyers, such as a free Pixel Watch 2 or Pixel Buds Pro, depending on the model you pick. In fact, when it comes to trade-in deals, Google is showering more love on generations-old iPhones than its own flagships. of yesteryear Google's Pixel 8 trade-in deals are ... bad One of the many Pixel owners venting frustration at poor trade-in deals. @ChrisMySass / X Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
