Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best level 2 home EV chargers By Christian de Looper Close When you brought home your shiny new electric vehicle, it came with a home charging cord. But that was likely a Level 1 charger , which can only add two or three miles of range per hour. Upgrading to a Level 2 home EV charger can triple that speed — or more — plus provide you with a multitude of options to help lower your electricity bill and extend your car battery life.
In other words, it's now easy to keep your car topped up without ever having to drive to a DC fast charging station unless you're on a road-trip -- ensuring that in day-to-day use, your car will stay fully charged.
There are, of course, a few things to note before buying a home EV charger. For starters, most of the chargers on this list make use of the SAE J1772 connector that works with most modern EVs that aren't Teslas, which need an adapter. That said, that's likely to change over the next few years, as a number of car manufacturers have announced that they're switching the charging ports on their cars to the Tesla NACS connector.
 Also, it's important to keep in mind that Level 2 chargers can't be plugged into a standard 120-volt outlet, so a larger 240-volt outlet is required. You also have to make sure your home’s electrical system can handle the charging station. Manufacturers should provide instructions on how to determine that.
It's wise to check our list of local EV tax credits and incentives before you select a charger, since many local utilities offer generous rebates that may cover most or all of the cost of your charger, but only if you select the right model. Typically utilities incentivize smart, internet-connected chargers that can be remotely throttled back in the event of a brownout. Always check the terms and conditions to make sure you're following them to the letter.
From the five best electric vehicle charger manufacturers come our top home EV chargers. Check out the best home EV chargers below.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More.
JuiceBox 40 Charging Station Two can play at this game Compatible with Google Home and Alexa Long 25-foot cord Hardwired or plug-in One circuit can handle multiple JuiceBoxes Expensive Maxes out at 40A The Enel JuiceBox comes in 32-amp or 40-amp models and is Wi-Fi-enabled, allowing you to monitor and schedule charging with the JuiceNet mobile app or web portal. The charging station features a built-in cable rack and security lock. You can choose to buy the model that hardwires into your house or the plug-in model that comes with a NEMA 14-50 plug, or the optional NEMA 14-30 or 10-30 plugs.
The charging station can also be controlled and monitored with Amazon Alexa or Google Home. Indoor or outdoor use is possible because the unit is weatherproof, dust-tight, and made of polycarbonate. The JuiceBox makes a smart buy if you think you may someday own multiple EVs, because you can connect multiple JuiceBox charging stations to the same circuit.
Hardwired or plug: Both Amp rating: 32 and 40 Wi-Fi capability: Yes Cord length: 25 feet Indoor/outdoor: Both Warranty: 3 years More Image used with permission by copyright holder ChargePoint Home Flex Electric Vehicle Charge The fastest option Charging speeds up to 50A Works with existing ChargePoint app Hardwired or plug-in Expensive ChargePoint, also known for its network of public charging stations, offers one model for home charging. The older 32A model has been recently discontinued. The company's latest model, Home Flex, offers adjustable amperage to 50 amps so owners can match their electrical panel’s or car’s capacity. The plug-in model can be used outdoors (unlike the 32A model) and comes with a NEMA 14-50 or NEMA 5-50 plug. The Home Flex can also be used with the ChargePoint app, Nest, and Amazon Alexa. Both models are Energy Star certified, making them the only ones on this list. That can be important for rebate eligibility in some scenarios. The ChargePoint app used to control and monitor charging can also be used to locate and pay for public charging stations.
Hardwired or plug: Both Amp rating: Adjustable up to 50 amps Wi-Fi capability: Yes Cord length: 23 feet Indoor/outdoor: Yes Warranty: 3 years More Lectron Level 2 EV Charger The cheapest option Affordable Compact No smart features Maxes out at 32A If you're looking for something relatively basic, then the Lectron 32 NEMA 14-50 EV charger may be worth considering. You won't get fancy features like Wi-Fi connectivity, but you will be able to easily charge at home at a reasonably fast pace, without having to pay for extra bells and whistles. It's relatively compact too, which might make it a better choice for some users.
This charger is 32 amps and can be used both indoors or outdoors. It can be plugged in or hardwired and uses the J1772 connector, so it should connect perfectly fine to most non-Tesla EVs.
Hardwired or plug: Both Amp rating: 32 Wi-Fi capability: No Cord length: 21 feet Indoor/outdoor: Yes Warranty: 1 year Electrify America Electric Vehicle (EV) Charger The name you know Long cord Separate plug holster Works with existing Electrify America app Maxes out at 40A If you own an EV and regularly charge on the go, it's very likely you've used an Electrify America charging station. And, if you have, and you like the app, then it's worth considering the Electrify HomeStation charger. This charger works with the same app as the Electrify America fast chargers, meaning you can easily monitor charging progress.
The Electrify HomeStation has a cord length that's similar to the others on this list, but on the higher end -- so if you need something a little longer than the others, it might work for you. It can be used both indoors and outdoors and has the J1772 connector.
Hardwired or plug: Both Amp rating: Adjustable up to 40 amps Wi-Fi capability: Yes Cord length: 24 feet Indoor/outdoor: Yes Warranty: 3 years Image used with permission by copyright holder Tesla Wall Connector A no-brainer for your Tesla Charging speeds up to 48A Tesla plug is increasingly popular Long four-year warranty No plug-in option The Tesla Wall Connector could be a whole lot more useful in the next few years. If you have a Tesla, it's a no-brainer to get this over the competition, considering the fact that it can be monitored through the Tesla app and has the Tesla NACS connector. But, it can still be used with non-Tesla cars through an adapter, and as more carmakers, like Ford and GM, adopt Tesla's connector, fewer and fewer users will need to use it with an adapter.
This charger is hardwired, so you'll need to get a professional to install it. It has a 24-foot cord, and as mentioned, it works with the Tesla app. It's not overly expensive, which is nice, too.
Hardwired or plug: Hardwire Amp rating: Adjustable up to 48 amps Wi-Fi capability: Yes Cord length: 24 feet Indoor/outdoor: Yes Warranty: 4 years Editors' Recommendations Flash deal knocks $140 off this 48-amp home electric vehicle charger Deal: Save $120 on this 25ft, 32-Amp home electric vehicle charger Amazon cuts prices of ChargePoint, JuiceBox, and Siemens home EV chargers Best Products Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
