Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The RedMagic 8 Pro is the year’s best phone you haven’t heard of By Prakhar Khanna Close $649.00 Full-screen display without a cutout Powerful performance Gorgeous design Loaded with gaming features Good value Software has a few hiccups Average cameras Gaming phones have a niche audience, but the hardware on these devices is top-notch. The RedMagic 8 Pro is another such gaming phone that performs as amazing as it looks. It’s also a phone that — unless you’re heavily invested in the mobile gaming space — you probably haven’t heard of.
The RedMagic 8 Pro has a flashy, premium design An incredible display in every way Outstanding performance and battery life Are the cameras worth using? Software that’s a mix of good and bad What about the competition? The RedMagic 8 Pro is a great choice for gamers But using a gaming phone mostly means compromising on software and cameras. I used the RedMagic 8 Pro for a week as my go-to smartphone to find out if you can buy it as your primary phone. Here’s what I learned.
The best iPhone 15 Pro cases in 2023: our 14 favorites The best iPhone 15 Pro screen protectors in 2023: our 8 favorites The best OnePlus phones in 2023: the 6 best ones you can buy The RedMagic 8 Pro has a flashy, premium design Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends I like flashing lights on phones, and the RedMagic 8 Pro has plenty of them that light up the logo and a few strips at the back. You can configure the colors and choose from up to seven options from the Settings menu. The matte version of the phone misses out on the transparent fun, but you get that on the titanium edition, which looks gorgeous in its transparent casing.
The RegMagic 8 Pro feels solid in the hand; it gives you a premium feel. In fact, the silver color variant looks more premium than any other Android smartphone.
 The matte surface on the regular model gives a good grip and isn’t prone to smudges. While I’d suggest using the phone as it is, you get a clear plastic case for protection in the box.
The RedMagic 8 Pro looks more premium than any other Android smartphone.
On the back also lies a triple rear camera setup. It doesn’t sit flush like last year’s RedMagic 7 Pro.
 However, it doesn’t seem out of place either. It is a rare phone with a minimal camera layout in 2023. On the right side, you get the power button, Game Space switch, and trigger buttons on top and bottom for gaming. There are volume rockers on the right side with air vents on both edges.
The RedMagic 8 Pro is smaller than the 7 Pro but features thinner bezels, so you get the same 6.8-inch screen size. There is no hole-punch camera cutout, so you get a full-screen display. The selfie shooter is mostly invisible. On the top lies a headphone jack alongside two mics, whereas the bottom has another mic and USB-C port. There is no IP rating for dust and water resistance.
An incredible display in every way Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The RedMagic 8 Pro features a 6.8-inch AMOLED display with a Full HD+ resolution (2480 x 1116 pixels) and a 120Hz refresh rate. Plus, there’s a 960Hz touch sampling rate for a smoother experience.
The company has worked on the display to improve its legibility in sunlight. The peak brightness has been increased from 600 nits to 1300 nits. I had no issues using the camera or viewing content in direct sunlight.
You can choose from five color modes: Normal, Vivid, Natural, P3, and sRGB. It came with Vivd out of the box, and I let it stay that way.
I liked consuming content on this display. It’s sharp, vivid, and offers a full-screen experience without any notch or cutout hindrance. It’s a good screen to view media on. The accompanied speakers get loud enough to let you enjoy TV shows, movies, or gaming sessions without the headphones.
Outstanding performance and battery life Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The RedMagic 8 Pro is powered by the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chipset, which has been really good on every flagship smartphone I’ve tested this year. It is paired with up to 16GB RAM and 512GB storage.
What’s a gaming device without a fan, right? You get a built-in cooling fan here, which runs up to 20,000 rpm. But you won’t be able to hear it unless you hold the phone close to your ears.
The phone aced every game I ran on it.
The smartphone aced every game I ran on it — from Genshin Impact to Asphalt 9.
 The former consistently gave me 60 fps at max settings. To my surprise, the phone didn’t get warm after 20 minutes of gaming. It stays cool for longer gaming sessions. The shoulder trigger buttons are mappable and work well.
As for day-to-day usage, I didn’t come across any stutters or interface lag. The navigation works well, and the call quality is clear. Plus, the haptics on offer here are some of the best I’ve used.
Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The RedMagic 8 Pro packs a 6,000mAh battery with support for 66W fast charging. It continuously lasted me a day with ease, even on heavy work days. I used the phone at a 120Hz refresh rate, pushed the brightness to the max, did a few gaming tests, clicked photos, and navigated the interface — and it still had 20% battery left by 9:00 p.m.
And if you’re running out of charge, the included 65W GaN charger helps get it to 50% within half an hour of charge time.
Are the cameras worth using? Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The RedMagic 8 Pro sports three rear cameras. It is led by a 50MP Samsung GN5 sensor, which is accompanied by an 8MP ultrawide angle sensor and a 2MP macro camera.
Previous Next 1 2 1x Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The primary camera captures detailed photos in daylight. It offers good dynamic range in outdoor shots with details even in the shadows.
Previous Next 1 2 Tap and shoot Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Point and shoot Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Photos at night come out surprisingly well too. I had low expectations from it for nighttime photography, but the images come out bright with minimal lens flare. You’ll have to work a bit to adjust photos to get even better-looking images.
Previous Next 1 3 Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Wide-angle Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Selfie shot on RegMagic 8 Pro Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Portrait shots have good edge detection with natural blur. It doesn’t feel like the subject is pasted artificially over the background, which happens on a few phones.
Switching to the ultrawide camera, the colors remain consistent in daylight, but the shots aren’t as detailed as the primary camera. As for the 2MP macro sensor, it is of minimal use.
On the front lies a 16MP selfie shooter. It has been immensely improved over its predecessor. However, it still smoothens outs the skin. I’m OK with the image quality because I get a no-nonsense full-screen display without any hindrance. It’s not the best camera package in the world, but it gets the job done.
Software that’s a mix of good and bad The RedMagic 8 Pro runs Android 13 with its own RedMagic OS 6. Simply put, there’s still room for improvement in the UI. It’s not consistent most of the time. For instance, if I change the layout option from no drawer to app drawer, I lose my home screen setup, and it converts to something random by default, which is frustrating.
Then there’s the notification problem as well, where the system changes anything more than one notification to “x notifications hidden.” That said, multitasking features like floating windows and others are good to use for productivity.
You can add a custom launcher without any issues this time around. I came across a few bugs that could be fixed with an update, but I’m not sure when and if an update will roll out. Sometimes, trying to insert an icon to create a folder on the home screen would lead to no result.
The best part about the software is the Game Space, which can be toggled by the switch located on the right edge of the phone. It allows you to store game shortcuts, adjust frame rate, touch sensitivity, fan and shoulder triggers, and view CPU and GPU performance. When inside a game, you can access the Game Space by swiping from either side.
What about the competition? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The RedMagic 8 Pro stands tall on its own, but it becomes an even more fascinating device when you compare it to its peers.
Take the ROG Phone 7 Ultimate as an example. It’s similarly powerful to the RedMagic 8 Pro, but it features a much bulkier design and a significantly higher price. Asus compliments the ROG Phone 7 with some helpful gaming accessories that the RedMagic 8 Pro doesn’t offer, but there’s also a difference of nearly $900 between the two.
The RedMagic 8 Pro also becomes an interesting alternative to phones like the OnePlus 11 and Galaxy S23.
 Those phones are better all-around smartphones, while the RedMagic 8 Pro is more focused on gaming — but they’re also more expensive.
The RedMagic 8 Pro is a great choice for gamers Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The matte variant of the RedMagic 8 Pro comes with 12GB RAM and 256GB of storage. It is priced at $649 / 649 euros / 579 British pounds.
On the other hand, the titanium and void options that offer a transparent design come with 16GB of RAM and 512GB of storage. These can be bought for $799 /749 euros /709 pounds.
The RedMagic 8 Pro is available unlocked in the U.S., including RedMagic’s website and Amazon.
The RedMagic 8 Pro is strictly for people who are serious about mobile gaming. It’s a gaming-first smartphone with a few hiccups in software, but you get all-day battery life, a good display without any cutouts or notch, excellent performance, and serviceable cameras. It’s not for everyone, but if this is the type of phone you’ve been looking for, the RedMagic 8 Pro has a lot to offer.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones See how the Pixel 8 Pro handles the bend test that broke the new iPhone The best iPhone 14 Pro cases: 20 best ones in 2023 The best iPhone 14 Pro Max cases: top 15 you can buy I really hope the iPhone 16 Pro Max doesn’t look like this Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile The iPhone 15 — and its rumored hardware upgrades — have been the talk of the rumor mill for the past few months. Now, the folks over at 9to5Mac have shared what they claim to be CAD-based renders of the iPhone 15 Pro and its Max variant in some stunning visual fashion.
Let’s start with the screen. The pill-shaped Dynamic Island is here to stay, but it looks like Apple is trimming the bezels on its upcoming flagships. If the leaked renders turn out to be true, the iPhone 15 Pro would offer some of the thinnest bezels you can find on any phone out there.
Mobile The iPhone 12 Pro is the powerful flagship of 2020's iPhone 12 range. With a 6.1-inch display, a powerful A14 Bionic processor, and an upgraded camera, the iPhone 12 Pro is a reasonably sized iPhone for users who want an iPhone that's reasonably priced, but still relevant in 2023.
Apple's Ceramic Shield claims to protect iPhones better than ever before, but if we were you, we'd still slap a case on our iPhone. Cases come in a range of forms, and choosing the right one for you is a matter of deciding what you need it for. We've checked the biggest case makers, grabbed some of their best cases, and explained what's good (and not so good) about each of them. Here are the best iPhone 12 Pro cases you can buy in 2023.
Mobile It appears that 9to5Mac got an exclusive first look at the upcoming iPhone 15 Pro, and it looks like some significant changes are coming.
These renders are based on a CAD model provided by a reliable case manufacturer and produced by 3D artist Ian Zelbo. We can expect the iPhone 15 lineup, including the iPhone 15 Pro, to arrive sometime later this year.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
