Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews I want to like this new Android phone, but there’s a big problem with it By Andy Boxall Close $856.00 Very fast battery charging IP68 water and dust resistance Strong processor for gaming Customizable software Poor wide-angle camera Lackluster selfie camera Software can be unreliable The Xiaomi 13T Pro has a bit of a problem, and it’s one the manufacturer can’t do much about. It’s not a bad phone at all, but it faces a sea of excellent ones released over the past year.
A cool and unusual smartphone design MediaTek’s new chip really helps The camera on the Xiaomi 13T Pro gets left behind Incredible fast charging makes life easy Xiaomi 13T Pro price and availability What about the Xiaomi 13T? The Xiaomi 13T Pro’s problem is all the other phones It doesn’t help that its specifications aren’t always top-notch or that it’s a downgrade from previous models in some cases. And although there’s a very famous camera maker’s name slapped on the back, it struggles to make the most of that collaboration. We end up with a phone that looks rather out of place among so many incredible smartphones available alongside it. Here’s why.
One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app MediaTek’s new chip just raised the bar for Android phones Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it A cool and unusual smartphone design Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Xiaomi 13T Pro has a glass back, a metal frame with a visually pleasing texture to it, and Gorilla Glass 5 over the 6.67-inch, 144Hz AMOLED screen. It comes in the basic black seen in our photos, in a Meadow Green color that’s also made of glass, or an Alpine Blue with a vegan leather back. Get it in glass, and it weighs 206 grams and is 8.49mm thick, so it’s quite chunky next to the new lightweight iPhone 15 Pro.
 The flat glass and sides are made more comfortable by the slightly tapered glass rear, but this is still a bit of a chunky, slippery phone to hold.
There are bold designs, and then there’s the Xiaomi 13T Pro’s camera module. It’s willfully sharp and strong lines make a clear statement, and it protrudes enough from the smooth, hyperreflective rear panel to make you think it’s hiding something very special indeed — especially as Leica’s branding is also so obvious. There’s a 50-megapixel main camera with optical image stabilization (OIS), a 50MP telephoto camera, and a 12MP wide-angle camera, while around the front is a 20MP selfie camera.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Inside the box with the Xiaomi 13T Pro is a flexible, transparent case that obviously adds protection, but also increases the phone’s not-inconsiderable weight and girth — a consequence of its 20:9 aspect ratio screen.
There’s an IP68 water resistance rating, which adds confidence, and there are no complaints about the build quality either. It’s every bit the high-quality smartphone you’d expect from the company.
MediaTek’s new chip really helps Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Inside the Xiaomi 13T Pro is a significant change over the Xiaomi 13 Pro , Xiaomi 12T Pro , and Xiaomi 12 Pro.
 That’s because the company has used a MediaTek Dimensity 9200+ processor, which replaces the Qualcomm Snapdragon chips used in previous models in Xiaomi’s “number” range. The screen has taken a resolution hit compared to the 13 Pro, dropping down to 2712 x 1220 pixels, although it does have a strong list of cool features. That includes 2880Hz PWM dimming, 2600 nits maximum brightness, Dolby Vision certification, and a 480Hz touch sampling rate.
The screen shows Android 13 with Xiaomi’s MIUI 14 interface. There are a lot of preinstalled apps on my review phone, including TikTok, WPS Office, AliExpress, Opera, and Spotify, plus all of Xiaomi’s tools such as a Notes app, a weather app, a calculator, a compass, and a whole lot more. I’ve been using the Xiaomi 13T Pro as my main phone for a few days, and I find MIUI is somewhat intrusive with its suggestions to try this or that app. At least it’s customizable, so I can change the look. Notifications are its weak point, as they don’t reliably appear on the lock screen.
Previous Next 1 5 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Performance is excellent, though, and MIUI flows smoothly, even if some of the animations are a little ponderous by default. But the real joy of Xiaomi’s software is that I can change it from “relaxed” to “balanced” or “fast” if it bothers me too much. It’s this kind of in-depth tweaking that makes MIUI appealing to so many people. There’s good news on the software update front though, as Xiaomi promises four major Android updates and five years of security patches with the Xiaomi 13T Pro.
I played Asphalt 9: Legends , and it was fluid, smooth, and fast. Plus, the dual speakers are loud, making it a fun gaming phone. The system’s speed is a credit to the Dimensity 9200+, which is a rarity in phones released outside China, and as the Xiaomi phone proves, it’s a shame this is the case.
The camera on the Xiaomi 13T Pro gets left behind Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I’ve already described how the camera module makes a strong impression, but can the MediaTek Dimensity 9200+ make the most out of the camera hardware? First, what does Leica bring to the phone? It adds its “photographic styles,” which work a bit like filters to change the look of your photos. It also supplies the lenses for the cameras to give that desirable Leica look to your final images.
Leica’s partnership with Xiaomi echoes the one it shared with Huawei , and it has given us some really great cameras already, with the Xiaomi 13 Pro springing instantly to mind.
 The 13T Pro needs, at the minimum, to match the superb ability of the camera on that phone.
However, it’s not at that level right now. I’m using the phone ahead of release, so software updates may come in the future to improve it, but the camera hasn’t impressed as instantly as the Xiaomi 13 Pro’s.
Where are the problems? It has trouble focusing when getting in close, but not that close, while the wide-angle camera disappoints with low quality and little consistency with the main camera. Selfies are also pretty poor, with washed-out colors and severe skin smoothing on the default setting, plus poor edge detection accuracy when using the selfie camera’s portrait mode.
Previous Next 1 16 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall / Digital Trends 2x zoom Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends 2x zoom Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Night mode Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Night mode Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Portrait mode Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends 2x zoom Andy Boxall / Digital Trends As is becoming a trend this year, the main camera is perfectly acceptable most of the time, and the 2x zoom photos are decent as well. But when you dig into the wide-angle camera or other modes, such as the highly smoothed-out Night mode, it’s just not inspiring — and I think that’s a problem when the camera has Leica’s name attached.
Incredible fast charging makes life easy Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Everything you could want is provided on the connectivity side, including NFC for mobile payments, Bluetooth 5.4, Wi-Fi 7, and 5G with dual-SIM support. However, according to Xiaomi, this does differ based on the market, so check before buying if one of these features is essential to you. The phone comes with up to 1TB of storage space, with the basic version offering 256GB.
A 5,000mAh battery powers the phone, and it’s recharged using the supplied 120-watt HyperCharge fast charger. Xiaomi says it takes just 19 minutes to fully recharge, and in our tests, this may be a little optimistic — with it taking about 23 minutes to go from 1% to 100%. However, I tested it using an adapter to change the European-spec wall plug to a U.K. one, which may cause the discrepancy.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends This aside, it’s still incredibly fast to charge and easily one of the fastest we’ve ever tested. It almost makes up for the Xiaomi 13T Pro not having wireless charging, an unfortunate feature omission on a modern smartphone. In my time with the phone so far, the battery appears to be capable of lasting about two days maximum on a single charge, with around three hours of screen time on each day.
Xiaomi 13T Pro price and availability The Xiaomi 13T Pro is available in the U.K. starting September 26, with no U.S. release expected. The cheapest model has 12GB of RAM and 256GB of storage space, and costs 649 British pounds, or around $795. There are two other models, a 12GB/512GB version for 699 pounds (about $857) and a top-end 16GB/1TB model at 799 pounds (about $980). In addition to being able to buy the Xiaomi 13T Pro through the mi.com website, it’ll be sold via the Three UK and Vodafone Ireland networks, and retailers including Amazon and Very.
What about the Xiaomi 13T? Xiaomi 13T in Alpine Blue Xiaomi The Xiaomi 13T Pro has a cheaper sibling called simply the Xiaomi 13T, which looks very similar, but slightly differs in specification. It has a 6.67-inch, 144Hz AMOLED screen, a MediaTek Dimensity 8200-Ultra processor, 67W fast charging for the 5,000mAh battery, an IP68 water and dust resistance rating, and 5G connectivity. The camera has been tuned by Leica, and is made up of a 50MP main camera, a 12MP wide-angle camera, and a 50MP telephoto camera. It comes in the same black, Meadow Green, or Alpine Blue vegan leather (seen in the image above) finishes, and only one 8GB/256GB configuration. It costs 549 pounds, which is around $672, and is also available from September 26.
The Xiaomi 13T Pro’s problem is all the other phones Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Xiaomi 13T Pro is an odd mishmash of features and designs from the Xiaomi 12T Pro, the Xiaomi 12 Pro, and the Xiaomi 13 Pro. It has the same charging technology as all three of these devices and a similar “family” design and style. The screen is basically the same as the 12T Pro’s, just with a slightly higher refresh rate and PWM dimming, but it has a notably less impressive camera than its older siblings.
I don’t think the switch to MediaTek’s Dimensity chip is an issue, as the phone’s overall performance is excellent, but I’m not sure enough has been done in terms of tuning the camera to work with it. There’s also no standout camera feature, with the 12T Pro coming with a 200MP camera when it launched this time last year. Instead, the camera is very similar to the 12 Pro, just with a lower-resolution wide-angle camera.
If you already own any of these phones, there’s no obvious reason to upgrade, and if you have a 12 Pro or 12T Pro, then you should be looking at the superb Xiaomi 13 Pro as your next phone. The price means for everyone else, there’s a massive amount of choice available, and it’s difficult not to recommend looking very closely at the Samsung Galaxy S23 , the Google Pixel 8 Pro , the iPhone 15 , or the OnePlus 11 instead. Or, if you want to save money, even the Google Pixel 7a or the Nothing Phone 2 are solid options.
This is the Xiaomi 13T Pro’s biggest problem. It’s not bad, the design is unique, and there’s plenty of performance on demand, but the feature list and camera look mediocre next to the many outstanding, similarly priced phones released over the past year.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon These 5 iPhone 15 problems are annoying. Here’s how to fix them See how the Pixel 8 Pro handles the bend test that broke the new iPhone T-Mobile iPhone 15 deals: The carrier’s latest iPhone offers Android Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile The Apple iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 series have been launched with much fanfare, but it seems that not all users are completely satisfied with the new handsets. Despite the many improvements and new features that come with these phones, users of both the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 have taken to social media to complain about overheating issues.
While this may not be a cause for immediate alarm, it is certainly something that Apple and its team of engineers will need to monitor closely, assuming there is a system-wide problem, which there might not be. The last thing anyone wants is for the new phones to become a safety hazard or for users to suffer damage to their devices.
Mobile Zack Nelson of popular YouTube channel JerryRigEverything has been at it again, subjecting yet another phone to the kind of durability test that will leave you wincing in horror.
Be gentle with Apples new Titanium iPhone 15 Pro Max ... Yikes! Mobile The iPhone 14 and iPhone 15 series have identical display sizes, but there are slight variations in their total dimensions due to design changes. This has led to a common question of whether the cases designed for iPhone 14 would fit the iPhone 15 models. The answer to this question is not straightforward and depends on whether you are looking for a perfect or a reasonable fit.
The iPhone 15 series consists of four models, just like the iPhone 14 series. These are the 6.1-inch iPhone 15, 6.7-inch iPhone 15 Plus, 6.1-inch iPhone 15 Pro, and 6.7-inch iPhone 15 Pro Max. The prices of the iPhone 15 series are the same as the previous models, and they come with several improvements. The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are made of titanium, while the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max have stainless steel bodies. Additionally, the iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus now have the Dynamic Island for the first time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
