Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Tempo Move review: An interactive, at-home fitness savant By Michael Bizzaco Close $395.00 Excellent equipment storage Intuitive app Responsive A.I. and reactive fitness tracking Support for up to six users under one Tempo household Competitively priced versus comparable options No Android support No live classes (currently) App can be finicky sometimes The last several years have been incredible for the world of at-home fitness gear. Now more than ever, we’re buying treadmills, stationary bikes, and other interactive fitness tools that take full advantage of the current state of the smart home. Through apps and touchscreens, we can track everything from calories burned to workout goals for the day, week, month, and year.
Out of the box Initial setup Features Workout experience Price and warranty Our take While a number of these at-home exercise devices tout impressive features, many also flaunt top-dollar prices. Yes, we all want the luxury of being able to stay fit right from our living room , but not all of us can spare the thousands of dollars required to do so. That’s where hardware like the Tempo Move comes in.
The best smart home devices for 2023 Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? From the creative workout minds that brought us the incredible mirror-mounted Tempo Studio, the Tempo Move is the company’s newest tech. Designed for budget shoppers and utilizing our iPhones instead of a dedicated touchscreen, does the company’s latest addition to its impressive fitness lineup make the grade? Read on to see what we thought after using the Tempo Move for a number of weeks.
Out of the box Image used with permission by copyright holder First impressions are important, and the Tempo Move is built to impress the moment you unbox the equipment. For starters, we don’t think we’ve ever seen a fitness company put so much thought into gear storage — let alone hardware — that costs as little as the Move package (currently sells for $395).
Weights, dumbbells, and the Tempo Core module are all designed to be placed inside a stowaway cabinet that measures 22 inches tall, 13.5 inches wide, and 13.5 inches deep. Cabinet color options include light blond and maroon wood finishes.
A magnetized mesh cover pulls back to reveal two shelves of weight-plate storage. Up top, wooden inserts can cleverly be removed for weight, resistance band, and cable storage. There’s also a hinged compartment that you can insert the dumbbells into. Weight plates range from 1.25 to 5-pound increments and the included dumbbells are 7.5 pounds each.
A center cutout can be removed to place the Tempo Core atop the cabinet, although you can always place the module right near your TV if you have the space. The Core itself comes packaged with an HDMI/USB-A combo cable.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Apartment dwellers, you’re in luck. The Tempo Move is the perfect at-home setup for space-deprived living. Better yet, if you don’t have the real estate in the TV room to keep everything, you can always store the cabinet in another part of your home. When it comes time to work out, just go and grab the Tempo Core, along with whatever weights you’ll need for the day.
Initial setup Getting the Tempo Move up and running is a fairly straightforward process. To get things started, the first thing you’ll want to do is create a Tempo account. You can do this by going to members.tempo.fit/register.
 On the webpage, you’ll be tasked with registering the equipment and inputting a payment method. While the first 30 days of your Tempo membership are free, you’ll be spending $40 per month after the trial period — a price about on-par with competitive workout subscriptions from companies like Peloton.
Adjacent to the Move’s impressive A.I. skills is the amazingly interactive Tempo app.
Next, grab your iPhone and download the Tempo app from the App Store (you can also scan the QR code on the quick start guide sheet in the box). Once you launch the app, you’ll scan the bottom of your Tempo Core to pair up your membership. The first few screens are all about gathering data about what kind of person you are (height, weight, exercise experience) and what kinds of goals you’re looking to set (weight loss, building muscle, etc.).
Next, on to the Tempo Core, the actual A/V module and iPhone dock station that is your essential A-to-B from your Tempo hardware to your TV.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In the box, you’ll find an HDMI/USB-A cable. Plug the HDMI portion into any free port on your TV and the USB-A into a free USB port on your TV. In the event that your TV’s USB is already in use, you can use a dedicated USB power brick instead.
The last step is docking your iPhone. Because the Tempo Move utilizes the iPhone’s True Depth Sensor for motion tracking, you’ll need an iPhone XS /XR or anything up to the iPhone 13 Pro Max. Speaking of mobile hardware: Sorry Android users. As of right now, the Tempo Move is for iOS devices only.
During setup, we actually had some trouble getting our iPhone 12 to handshake with the Tempo Core. We followed a few troubleshooting tips, including HDMI and USB-A unplugging and re-plugging, but to no avail. After restarting the phone though, everything linked up correctly. Ah, tech.
Features The major tech behind the Tempo Move is 3D Tempo Vision , an A.I. learning system that tracks your workout style, keeping long-term tabs on everything from form to reps. Over time, the system becomes smart enough to know your workout style, which allows it to do things like recommend weight sizes.
As you replicate what your instructor is doing, the exact exercise you’re doing is displayed in the top-left portion of the TV screen with rep-time remaining in the top-right corner. Actual reps, pace, and heart rate (which requires a compatible wearable ) are tracked at the bottom of the screen.
With the higher-priced Tempo Studio , 3D Tempo Vision is built directly into the touchscreen mirror. As far as the Move goes, 3D Tempo Vision forms an alliance with your iPhone’s various motion-tracking capabilities via your device’s True Depth Sensor.
Adjacent to the Move’s impressive A.I. skills is the amazingly interactive Tempo app. At launch, the Home tab shows you how many classes you’ve completed on the current date, complete with how many calories you burned and leaderboard stats (if you’re interested). Here you can also see what workouts you’ve completed through the entire week.
Under the Classes tab, you’ll find quite the spread of workout tools, including thousands of classes encompassing everything from high-intensity interval training (HIIT), stretching, yoga, strength, cardio, and more. Currently, the Tempo Move doesn’t offer live classes, but we’re betting these will be included sometime soon.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In the Programs tab, you can choose from a medley of Tempo-curated workout regimens for everything from losing weight to improving definition. For those in need of a recommendation, a separate For You sub-tab suggests regimens based on whatever workout experience you inputted during registration.
Then there’s the Profile tab. Here you’ll be able to see how many workouts you’ve completed , calories burned, and total volume. Date ranges include a week, the past 30 days, and all time. Selecting the gear icon in the top-right corner of the screen allows you to adjust notification settings, change your password, invite up to five family members to your Tempo membership, and more.
Workout experience Now it’s time to hit the mat. We positioned our Tempo Core on top of our TV stand, slightly in front of the TV. After docking our phone, one of the first things we were prompted to do was to set up our workout mat. Ideally, you’ll want this about five feet back from your TV stand. During setup and throughout your interactive workouts, a mat indicator will appear at the bottom of the screen, letting you know if you’re properly located in your workout area.
We got things started with a 20 Minute Low Impact Cardio training, for your humble reviewer is not so skilled in the art of exercise. The onscreen trainer was energetic and encouraging, but incredibly talkative. Like, a bit too talkative. Not a huge deal though — gotta pump us up! As you replicate your instructor’s movements, the exact exercise you’re doing is displayed in the top-left portion of the TV screen with rep-time remaining in the top-right corner. Actual reps, pace, and heart rate are tracked at the bottom of the screen. And hey, it works! Sometimes the small things really count when it comes to consumer tech, and watching the rep counter increase with every pathetic squat I performed confirmed that my iPhone was playing nicely with the Tempo hardware.
The leaderboard is displayed along the right side of the screen. Other people’s successes scared me though, so I hid this real-time chart (you can do so by going selecting Leaderboard on your iPhone and choosing the Hide setting). In-app during the workout, you’ll also be able to choose from different music genres, as well as adjust the music-to-instructor volume ratio.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When you pause a workout (by pressing the big Pause icon on your iPhone screen), your TV screen will show what your current circuit is, along with whatever forthcoming forms there are in the round of the workout you’re currently training in. All of this information is also displayed on your phone screen right before you launch the actual workout.
In my 25 Minute Full Body Build and 35 Minute Strength Training courses , it was nice to have the required weights displayed onscreen. In both exercises, the Move had a tough time keeping track of my reps though. While there were a few times I stepped out of the mat-zone, when I was nailing the form (or as close to nailing as possible) on the mat, the Move still wouldn’t count my reps or track my pacing.
Looking into things later, I found out this probably wasn’t a glitch. Indeed, the Move does not track reps, pace, and offer form correction for all exercises. A bit of a bummer, but I guess interactive feedback is offered on enough workouts to make this not such a big deal.
Price and warranty Right now, Tempo is offering a solid discount on the Move. Normally, the Tempo Move package sells for $500 but Tempo is currently knocking $100 off the retail price. So, for $400, you get a solid workout package, a versatile storage cabinet, and a three-year warranty.
There’s more money to be spent though. The Tempo Move requires a Tempo subscription, which after the 30-day free trial, is going to run you $40 a month. All things considered — including the massive assortment of classes, fitness customizations, and support for up to six individual users — this isn’t a bad monthly premium, in our opinion.
Our take If you’re looking for an all-immersive, at-home workout experience for a decent price, the Tempo Move is a fantastic bundle that we definitely recommend. While you may not get the exact same experience as you would by using the company’s higher-priced Studio hardware (or equally-priced competitive workout equipment ), the Move effectively pushes the power of your iPhone to the next level.
Fitness tracking is on point, the workouts are bountiful, and the sky is the limit for new features to be added. True, it’s no fun that Android devotees can’t play along too. But if you’ve got a fairly new iPhone and a little cash to spare, both upfront and month-to-month, the Tempo Move is the perfect way to get your reps up in the comfort of your living room, bedroom, or basement gym.
How long will it last? With the Tempo Move you’re only relying on two pieces of equipment to keep your workouts powered. There’s the Tempo Core, which is covered by Tempo’s three-year warranty, and whichever iPhone you’re using for the Tempo app. That being said, we’re betting you’ll get a number of successful years from the Core module, with performance only improving as app updates roll through.
In fact, Tempo already has plans to utilize more advanced hardware features of the later iPhone models, so you can expect improvements and new features for the foreseeable future.
Is there a better alternative? If you want a more robust platform, Tempo’s higher-priced Studio ($1,995) includes an interactive touchscreen that doubles as a workout mirror. Negating your iPhone, everything you would use the Tempo app for is built right into the display. And don’t forget: The Studio includes live classes (the Move doesn’t.) As far as an alternative that matches the price of the Move, we’re having a tough time thinking of one. At-home fitness gear typically runs for thousands of dollars, on top of whatever monthly subscription you have to factor in.
Should you buy it? Absolutely. The Tempo Move offers an incredible workout experience by way of some solid equipment and an intuitive companion app.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Best Keurig deals: Get perfect coffee at home for just $50 The 5 weirdest smart home gadgets of 2023 How to fix a robot vacuum that stops moving Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Wearable Reviews Smart Home Smart home technology has expanded dramatically over the past few years, and there’s no shortage of cool tech available to help you with your holiday decorations. Halloween is a particularly great one for smart home gadgets to help with, as you’ll find a variety of products available that create unique lighting and sounds -- as well as a few ways to tweak them to create a spooky atmosphere.
With so many products up for grabs, it can be difficult to figure out where to start. If you need some help sifting through all the options, here’s a look at which smart home devices are best for Halloween -- and how they can make your home the talk of the neighborhood.
Light it up Smart Home The Yale Assure Lock 2 was already one of the best smart locks of 2023, thanks to its versatile smartphone app and a bevy of unique designs -- including a keyless model and vibrant Magenta color. Today, Yale is expanding the lineup by introducing the Assure Lock 2 Plus and Assure Lock 2 Touch, both of which bring new capabilities to a smart lock already loaded with premium features.
If you own an iPhone or Apple Watch, the Yale Assure Lock 2 Plus is a most compelling new product. Offering support for Apple Home keys, you can now unlock your front door by simply tapping your iOS device on the Assure Lock 2 Plus.
Smart Home Amazon Astro came as a surprise when it was revealed in September 2021. The quirky device does a little bit of everything, serving as a robot companion that boasts facial recognition, impressive navigation skills, and tons of useful home security features.
But a lot has changed with Astro since it was first announced, and it's gotten some new competition in the form of EBO X. Here’s a look at everything we know about Astro, including how you can get your hands on it and add it to your home.
Designed to rove around the home Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
