Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple Fitness Plus Review: Rough around the edges, but has potential By Kelly Hodgkins Close $10.00 Seamless integration with the Apple Watch Diversity of likable trainers Variety of workout types New content every week Requires an Apple Watch Series 3 or newer and an iPhone No live classes Some exercises require specific equipment Because of gym restrictions and pandemic concerns , many people are building their own home gym instead of dropping their hard-earned money on a gym membership. Services like Apple Fitness+ are stepping in to fill this void as the shift to at-home fitness transforms the fitness industry. Can an online stream replace your in-person Pilates class? We tested Apple Fitness+ to find out.
Apple Watch is the killer feature Can’t-do vibe Diverse, enthusiastic trainers Moderate workouts, but no live content Cost Our take Apple Watch is the killer feature Apple Fitness+ is available for the iPad, iPhone, and Apple TV, but it really was designed for the Apple Watch.
 As soon as you open a workout on your iPhone, it immediately shows up on the Apple Watch. Your watch then sends your health data to your connected device so you can view it as you follow the trainer’s lead.
I found myself connecting with the trainers and wanting to exercise with them.
While you are exercising, you can watch your activity rings increase as you get closer to completing your workout goals. You also can see your heart rate, time, and calories burned. It’s a small feature, but incredibly motivating to see all your stats on the big screen. Because it’s on your screen, you don’t have to keep glancing down at your Watch. This is huge for someone like me who is likely to stumble or lose the rhythm by looking at my wrist.
Can’t-do vibe Apple Fitness+ is excellent for beginner to midlevel athletes, just as long as they have the right gear. Most cardio workouts require a treadmill, bike, or stepper machine, and they are not interchangeable. Unlike iFit, which films landscape-based activities suitable for any machine, Fitness+ requires you to have a bike to do the cycling workouts, for example.
Image used with permission by copyright holder You’ll also need dumbbells or kettlebells to complete many of the strength activities. You may be able to swap out bodyweight exercises, but it is not the same. You also can skip those workouts that require specific gear, but eliminating so many exercises considerably diminished my experience. Instead of having a “can-do” feeling, I often had a “can’t-do” feeling as I browsed through the workout library. To be fair, Apple does offer walking workouts and dance classes that don’t require any special gear, but these are few and far between. I would love to see more of this creative, gear-free content.
This “can’t-do” feeling was exacerbated by a limited user interface. Fitness+ sorts the workouts into broad categories (high-intensity interval training, yoga, core, strength, treadmill, cycling, rowing, dance, and mindful cooldown) to help you find the right exercise. ut once inside a category, I found it challenging to find the right workout for my fitness level. There was no way to filter activities based on the difficulty level or gear it required. I had to choose a workout and then read the description to figure out if it was appropriate for me. This hunt-and-peck method of finding an activity was tedious.
Diverse, enthusiastic trainers Apple is the master of appearance, so it’s no surprise that the Fitness+ videos are highly polished. The videos are filmed in a gorgeous studio gym with great camera angles so you can see exactly how the trainer is moving. The workouts offer upbeat music and likable trainers who encourage you to “close those rings.” There is no way to filter activities and the hunt-and-peck method of finding a workout was tedious.
Apple’s trainers reflect a variety of different ethnicities, ages, and body types, which I appreciated. Because they were normal and not super-fit elite athletes, I found myself connecting with the trainers and wanting to exercise with them. Their enthusiasm was infectious. Apple also adds content weekly, which keeps me coming back to find out what’s new.
Moderate workouts, but no live content Fitness+ is geared toward the massive number of iPhone and Apple Watch owners. It targets the beginner-to-midlevel person and not advanced athletes. Established fitness fanatics could use Fitness+ to supplement their existing routine or for cross-training on a rest day, but it won’t replace their existing high-intensity routine.
Most workouts are simple to follow and some are even scalable, which is a feature other exercise programs should adopt. In these scalable strength workouts, you can choose to complete the selected activities, pump it up a notch with advanced activities, or scale down the exercises if you have an injury or just want to take it easy. This flexibility encourages you to keep going even when an injury or an illness gets in the way.
As much as I enjoyed Fitness+, the service has a major Achilles’ heel. Unlike Peloton or Mirror , which offer an abundance of live classes, Apple Fitness+, unfortunately, is comprised entirely of prerecorded videos. On-demand workouts are convenient because you can exercise anytime you want, but they lack the communal feel of a live class. Hopefully, Apple will bring on a few trainers to lead live classes on a daily basis.
Cost Apple Fitness + requires an Apple Watch Series 3 or newer, which will set you back at least $199 for a new Watch. It also requires a $10 monthly or a $80 yearly subscription. The service is also included in the Apple One Premier bundle, which costs $30 per month and includes Apple Music, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, Cloud, and News+. When it comes to cost, it’s significantly cheaper than the average $40 per month subscription that most connected home gyms like Mirror, Tempo Studio, and Tonal require.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Our take Apple Fitness+ is a great workout tool for the beginner to midlevel Apple fan who already owns an Apple Watch. A growing library of workouts from motivating trainers encourages you to exercise. It’s a little rough around the edges, but it has potential. If Apple listens to its critics and improves the service, Fitness+ could give Peloton a run for its money in the coming year.
Is there a better alternative? Apple Fitness+ shows promise, but it requires an Apple Watch. Not everyone owns an Apple Watch, nor wants to buy one just to workout. The strongest competitor to Fitness+ is iFit, which has an extensive library of prerecorded studio and outdoor activities and a growing number of live workouts, and does not require a fitness watch. It’s competitively priced at $10 monthly and runs on tablet or smartphone.
How long will it last? Apple has a history of supporting and upgrading the software on its older devices, and we expect Apple Fitness+ to receive the same treatment. The service will improve over time, and its deficiencies (no live workouts, for example) will be a thing of the past.
Should you buy it? Yes, Apple Fitness+ may be just what the doctor ordered for Apple Watch owners looking to get fit and stay fit.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s our first look at OnePlus’ next Apple Watch killer The best iPhone 15 Plus cases in 2023: 11 best ones right now The best iPhone 15 Plus screen protectors in 2023: 10 best ones Apple may kill one of its most important iPhones with iOS 17 The OnePlus 11 Concept has PC-like liquid cooling, and it looks incredible Health & Fitness Smart Home Wearables Apple Fitness Tracker Reviews Health & Fitness Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Mobile Since Apple launched the App Store in 2008, the tech giant has paid out an astonishing $320 billion to developers.
The data was revealed on Tuesday in Apple’s annual analysis of how the company's various services performed over the past year.
Mobile Apple has just released iOS 16.2 for iPhones, as well as watchOS 9.2 for compatible Apple Watch devices. iOS 16.2 has been in the beta testing stages for a few months, and it is now finally available for everyone. This is a relatively big point update, bringing with it several new features.
In iOS 16.2, we have the newly announced Advanced Data Protection. With Advanced Data Protection, end-to-end encryption has been expanded to many more iCloud data categories. This includes Messages backups, photos, notes, reminders, voice memos, and more points of data. Advanced Data Protection is currently only limited to those who are in the U.S., with a worldwide rollout starting in early 2023.
Mobile The iPhone 14 Plus is one of Apple's latest offerings with an improved camera and mandatory eSIM. If you're buying this model, we recommend setting aside a few more dollars to invest in a solid, protective case to keep your precious new device safe. To save you the hard work, we've rounded up the best iPhone 14 Plus cases available on the market right now. Want even more protection? Check out our list of the best iPhone 14 Plus screen protectors.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
