Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Fitbit Charge 4 review: The only fitness tracker you need By Christian de Looper Close $150.00 Excellent fitness tracking Some smart features Good battery life GPS built in Solid value Limited music support Slightly dated design Display could be better Tracking my health is important to me. I use MyFitnessPal to track what I eat, Sleeptracker to monitor my sleep, and the Apple Watch to track my fitness and activity. All that information is tied together in the Apple Health app.
 The Apple Watch even alerted me to the fact that I might have atrial fibrillation — a diagnosis that was later confirmed by cardiologists. In a world with all these ultra-high-tech, artificially intelligent tracking systems, the humble Fitbit can feel a little old-school.
Design Tracking fitness Not quite a smartwatch The Fitbit app Battery life Our Take While the Fitbit Charge 4 isn’t going to compete with the Apple Watch in many areas, for the price, it’s pretty much the best fitness tracker you can buy. That’s especially true given that the device now finally offers built-in GPS and new heart-monitoring features.
Let’s take a closer look.
Design The Fitbit Charge 4 looks almost identical to the Fitbit Charge 3 — and while the Charge 3 did offer an updated design, it does still feel a little dated at this point. That’s not to say that it’s ugly. The device is small enough to look good on wrists of all sizes, plus it’s easily customizable thanks to the huge range of bands out there.
On the front of the device, you’ll find a 1-inch monochrome OLED display with a resolution of 160 x 100 pixels. The display is pretty boring and at times frustrating to use. It’s not always on, and it often doesn’t wake when you raise your wrist. Not only that, it’s not very bright, and can sometimes be difficult to read in sunlight. An updated display would have been appreciated here.
Image used with permission by copyright holder On the side of the Charge 4, there’s a haptic button, which wakes the display and serves as a home button in the device’s software, among other things. It works fine, though sometimes you have to press harder for it to work. You’ll get used to it, though. On the bottom of the device you’ll find the charging pins and a heart rate monitor.
As you would expect from a fitness tracker in 2020, the device is water-resistant to up to 50 meters and supports swim tracking as a result. I wasn’t able to get to a pool to test this due to the ongoing lockdown.
Generally speaking, the overall design of the Fitbit Charge 4 could be described as “fine.” It does the job. It’s not flashy, and the display is a bit lackluster. This isn’t a smartwatch after all — it’s a fitness tracker. And it looks like one.
Tracking fitness Before you actually start tracking your fitness, it’s worth diving into the app and figuring out which activities you think you’ll use most, as the device only actually holds six shortcuts at a time. I actually thought that the Charge 4 couldn’t track tennis, but it can track a massive range of activities — you just have to specify which ones are most important to you. By default the shortcuts include running, biking, swimming, treadmill, outdoor workout, and walk.
It is a little annoying that only six shortcuts can be included. I wouldn’t characterize myself as the most active person out there, but I still track walks, runs, strength training, and the occasional tennis and swimming sessions. It would be easy to imagine someone needing to use more than six types of activity regularly.
Image used with permission by copyright holder New for the Charge 4 is built-in GPS, which is a very welcome addition. With the GPS, you can finally leave your smartphone at home if you want to physically track your run. I found GPS accuracy to be pretty accurate — and even slightly more accurate than the Apple Watch.
The fact that the device has GPS built into it puts it ahead of the vast majority of other trackers, especially in this price range. Most other GPS-enabled devices are full-on smartwatches, except for the Garmin Vivosport, which trades in other features, like swim tracking and some other fitness metrics.
The workouts that use the GPS track things like pace, speed, distance, time, and heart rate. Other workouts track time, calories burned, and heart rate. It’s a good selection of metrics, and those things can all be easily seen straight from the Fitbit app.
The Charge 4 can automatically track some workouts like running, walking, biking, elliptical, and more. This came in handy more than once. During this time of social distancing, I’m trying to take at least a few walks per day — and I might not remember to start a workout to track those, considering I don’t always think of them as “workouts.” The Fitbit Charge 4 had me covered, as I was pleasantly surprised to see all my walks in the app.
The Fitbit Charge 4 can track your sleep, too. While wearing a device to bed took some getting used to, it tracks a ton of data — and if you get Fitbit Premium, you’ll see how Fitbit breaks down your score. It’s hard to determine how accurate sleep tracking is without a dedicated sleep lab, but the scores did seem to line up with how I felt about my sleep, and with the score I get from Sleeptracker.
While I didn’t test it for obvious reasons, the Charge 4 offers menstrual cycle tracking, and the app lets you log and compare symptoms and moods with other users and previous months. The Charge 4 also helps out with mental health — thanks to the built-in Relax app that helps you conduct breathing exercises.
Not quite a smartwatch Let’s get this out of the way right now. The Fitbit Charge 4 is not a smartwatch.
If you want a smartwatch, you should look elsewhere.
That’s not to say that the Fitbit Charge 4 has no smart features. On the contrary, it can do a number of things that you would expect from a smartwatch. You’ll be able to see many notifications on your wrist, including text messages, calls, and more. The device now supports Fitbit Pay, which makes for easy mobile payments.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Another new feature is the ability to control music playing on your phone from your Charge 4. Unfortunately, the feature is limited to Spotify, and you can’t control music when you’re working out — which makes the feature pretty useless on a fitness tracker. Also, you can’t store music on your device. If you were hoping to leverage the GPS support to leave your phone at home, but still want to listen to music, you’re out of luck.
This essentially completes the Charge 4’s smartwatch-like feature list. It doesn’t have accept to an app store. It can’t record audio. It won’t take calls. It can’t provide GPS navigation. It won’t display local weather. And so on. The lack of these feature isn’t really a flaw with the Charge 4, as its focus on fitness no doubt contributes to the tracker’s reasonable price point.
If you’re looking for a true smartwatch, then it’s worth considering other options. If you’re an Apple user, you could pay only a little extra for an Apple Watch Series 3.
 While the Apple Watch isn’t quite as in-depth on fitness-tracking, it’s very capable, plus it offers all the other features you would expect from a smartwatch.
The Fitbit app Tying together all the data that the tracker collects is the app — and it’s a home run. Fitbit has been working on its app for years, and it’s incredibly detailed. The dashboard of the app shows things like the number of steps you’ve taken, the number of floors you’ve climbed, your heart rate, and more. Tap on those metrics, and you’ll be able to see much more detailed information.
For a run, you can see where you ran on a map, along with the “heart zones” you reached on that map, and your pace. Scroll down, and you’ll get a look at your elevation, a breakdown of your heart zones, heart rate information, calories burned, and more.
The app is great at tracking and rewarding goals too. You’ll find all kinds of goals on offer, including weekly and daily goals. “Active Zone Minutes” takes recommendations from the World Health Organization and American Heart Association, and turns those recommendations into minutes of exercise. It can be a little confusing, but the overall gist is that you’ll get more credit toward your goals for more intense workouts, which helps encourage users to push themselves.
You will have to dig into the settings to find some of the features on offer, but once you get used to how the app is laid out, that’s easy to figure out. For example, you can’t just head to the settings menu to tweak the settings of your device, but have to tap through to your device first, and then head to its own settings menu. It does make sense when you think about it, but it can still a little confusing.
Overall, the Fitbit app is awesome. It’s well-designed, and it makes sorting through the huge amount of data that the Fitbit Charge 4 collects easy.
Battery life The battery life on the Fitbit Charge 4 is rated at up to an impressive week of use — but that will largely depend on how often you use GPS. Fitbit says that with GPS on, you’ll only end up getting five hours of use. In real-world use, you’ll end up getting a few days out of the battery if you use the device to track workouts.
That’s not bad. “Real” smartwatches will only get you a day or two of use, at the most.
While battery life is good, the fact that you may end up using this device to track your sleep means that you’ll actively have to think about when to charge your Charge. For some, it will be in the shower, or when you’re sitting at your desk.
Our Take The Fitbit Charge 4 is the best fitness tracker out there. It’s distinctly better than the Charge 3, thanks to the built-in GPS, plus the Fitbit app allows those who want to dive into their fitness metrics to do so.
However, the age of fitness trackers is coming to a close. If you’re an Apple user, you could get a new Apple Watch Series 3 for only $50 more, and if you can afford it, an Apple Watch Series 4 or 5 is even better. On the Android side, there are watches like the Samsung Galaxy Watch Active 2.
On the fitness tracker side of things, the only competition comes from devices like the Samsung Galaxy Fit, Huawei Band 4 Pro, and some devices from Garmin — but in each and every case, you’ll either sacrifice GPS, or decent software. The Fitbit Charge 4 is the complete package.
Is there a better alternative? If you’re looking for a traditional fitness tracker, then the Fitbit Charge 4 is the way to go, and there’s very little in the way of competition. If you want a versatile device that you can use for more than just fitness tracking, then it’s worth considering something like the Apple Watch SE or Apple Watch Series 3.
Want more options? Check out the best fitness trackers for 2020.
How long will it last? The Fitbit Charge 4 should last at least a few years under normal use. The body is built to withstand some bumps, and it has a water-resistance rating of up to 50 meters.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Fitbit Charge 4 is a great fitness tracker, and the Fitbit app is a near-perfect companion to it.
On the other hand, you might also be looking for something discounted. We’ve written about the best Fitbit deals and smartwatch deals that you can check out.
Editors' Recommendations The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid Best Fitbit deals: Nearly every fitness tracker model is on sale What is RAM? Here’s everything you need to know Wearing a fitness tracker could help you detect COVID faster Does the OnePlus 11 have wireless charging? What you need to know Health & Fitness Wearables Fitbit Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile If you’ve been thinking of buying a new fitness tracker, you have a wide selection of options to choose from. Fitbit is a name you're bound to have heard of, as it's one of the top brands in the fitness industry, with more than a dozen varieties of fitness trackers and smartwatches to suit different needs.
With that number to choose from, it's not hard to see why people might become overwhelmed when choosing between them. Thankfully, there are definitely Fitbits that excel in certain areas, and as such, it's not too hard to narrow down your choice to find the best Fitbit for you. We've done a bit of the work for you here by grabbing some of the best Fitbit options around, breaking them down, and pointing out what makes them so special. Here are the best Fitbits for 2023.
Mobile Updating your electronic devices to keep them running at an optimal level is important, but if you have the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 or Galaxy Watch 4 Classic, you might want to hold off on the latest firmware update. We're specifically referring to the update bearing the number R89xXXU1GVI3, which users have reported is killing their smartwatches.
According to a report from SamMobile, users have taken to online forums and complained that both models of the Galaxy Watch 4 will not reboot at all after shutting down upon installing the R89xXXU1GVI3 update. In other words, the update wouldn't allow the watches to restart, effectively rendering them useless.
Mobile The charging benchmarks set by Android phones are quite astounding — with some phones being able to charge at 200 watts. If that wasn’t enough, a new Android phone takes it up a notch.
Xiaomi’s newly launched smartphone, the Redmi Note 12 Explorer, brings 210W charging, which is the fastest on any smartphone we've seen to date. The proprietary charging tech charges the phone to 66 percent in five minutes and up to 100 percent in about nine minutes. This is extremely impressive considering that the flagship offerings from the likes of Apple and Google take close to two hours for a complete charge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
