Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Fitbit Luxe review: Beautifully designed, yet modest in size By John Velasco Close $150.00 Minimalist design makes it discreet Sharp looking AMOLED display Exceptional battery life Lacks Fitbit Pay It’s hard for me to believe that it’s been five long years since I last reviewed a Fitbit. That seemed like ages ago, but I suppose the reason why I stopped checking them out was because smartwatches began to rise in popularity — showing me that they, too, were more than capable with health tracking.
Design Display Software Features Battery Life Our take One of the early Fitbits I fell in love with was the Flex because it was discreet and didn’t draw as much attention as a smartwatch, which is probably the same reason that attracts me to the company’s latest tracker, the Luxe. There’s no arguing the need for a fashion-forward design, but the Luxe is competing in a time when smartwatches have substantially evolved to effectively more than cover the features in a standard fitness tracker.
Design Looking at my wrist, there’s a permanent untanned portion leftover by the Apple Watch that once adorned the spot. It’s a reminder of the overwhelming nature of some smartwatch designs. With the Fitbit Luxe in its place, though, I forget the sweetness of the minimalist look. I went with the black/graphite stainless steel version of the Luxe, which I have to say is a refreshing change. The black rubbery band has a subtle contrast against the graphite stainless steel chassis.
John Velasco / Digital Trends While my particular color edition of the Luxe favors a more neutral tone, something I appreciate because it remains discreet and doesn’t draw attention like other smartwatches, Fitbit offers it in two other colorful combinations — orchid/platinum stainless steel and lunar white/soft gold stainless steel.
And finally, there’s the Fitbit Luxe Special Edition, which features a gold stainless steel Parker Link Bracelet in favor of the standard rubbery band. Sure, it has a sophisticated look that effectively masks the tracker to make it look more like a piece of jewelry. While it’s not something I’d go after, I know it can appeal to individuals that don’t want to blatantly flaunt a piece of tech gear on them.
Display Without question, the crown jewel of the Luxe is its gorgeous AMOLED display. It’s tiny, probably less than an inch diagonal by my estimate, but that doesn’t take away from its vibrant colors, sharp details, and accurate touch responses. Its size perfectly matches its purpose: a fitness tracker that’s there to capture information in the background — all while looking and remaining discreet on my wrist.
John Velasco / Digital Trends Getting acquainted with the touchscreen’s operation doesn’t require much investment, as it heavily relies on the typical swipes used by other smartwatches. It’s fairly responsive and I do enjoy some of the minor touches, like how the screen automatically turns on when you raise the Luxe towards you, as well as covering the display with your palm to quickly turn it off.
This is the first time I’ve used a Fitbit with a color screen and it’s an upgrade I’m happy with While I’ve been mesmerized by the iridescence and larger size of other fitness tracker displays (the Samsung Gear Fit comes to mind), I find the more modest nature and smaller size of the Luxe’s AMOLED display to be equally compelling.
Software As with other modern fitness trackers, the Luxe provides all of the most relevant health stats on the unit itself without the need to check on a smartphone.
 It’s convenient to say the least, but there are some ‘lite’ smartwatch functions at your disposal — like setting timers and alarms, starting workout routines, and receiving notifications. With the latter, you can actually choose what apps you want notifications from, which is handy so that you’re not constantly bombarded by irrelevant things.
Over on the app side of things, the Fitbit app is just as rich in information and detail as it was when I last used it. Everything the Luxe tracks, the app breaks it all down. I’m particularly impressed by its sleep tracking, which gives me a sleep score similar to what Sleep Number beds offer.
However, I’m still a little shocked that the Luxe can be fooled into thinking I’ve taken steps, when in fact, I’ve simply moved my hand in a side-to-side motion. This isn’t a problem isolated to just Fitbit trackers, but it’s something I thought would’ve been remedied somehow by now. I really don’t think it amounts to anything substantial in my experience, but I can clearly see how the tracking can be skewed if you do this frequently.
Features As you’d expect, the Fitbit Luxe functions similar to other fitness trackers. That means it tracks steps, resting/active heart rate, your sleep, and exercises. All of this is fantastic, something I expect from any fitness tracker nowadays. Still, it’s missing one critical feature I think that could add a little bit more utility to its arsenal.
I forget the sweetness of the minimalist look.
I’m talking about a baked-in mobile payment solution. In this case, it would’ve been Fitbit Pay, something that’s available on its other smartwatch-esque trackers. I personally have relied heavily on mobile payment solutions like Apple Pay and Google Pay , even more when situations arise when I don’t have my phone on me by chance. Fitbit Pay would’ve tremendously added value to the Luxe, but it’s unfortunately absent.
Battery Life Fitbit’s rating of up to 5 days is still better than most smartwatches. Take the Apple Watch for example that I use, which requires nightly charges. Amazingly, the Luxe managed to best even Fitbit’s ambitious claim by going nearly 7 full days before a recharge. In order to reduce battery drain, I only set notifications for text messages and one mobile game I play religiously. As much as I detest proprietary chargers, I understand the reasoning behind them, so you’ll want to pay extra attention to not lose the one here with the Luxe.
Our take I still have a sweet spot for the Fitbit Flex. It was the early days for fitness trackers, and much like it, the Luxe brings back some of that nostalgia. In fact, it seems to me that the Luxe is the modern-day upgrade to the little ol’ tracker I fell in love with many years ago.
The price isn’t too shabby either. With a price tag of $150, the Luxe isn’t excessively costly in comparison to the $279 starting cost of the Apple Watch SE. While I crave more features, fitness trackers such as this one have merit in the sense that they focus on the primary fitness stuff before anything else.
Is there a better alternative? Functionally, most smartwatches can be better alternatives if they’re relatively close in price. The Mobvoi TicWatch E3 and Apple Watch SE come to mind, but the trade-off for having superior utility is that battery life is nowhere close to what the Luxe offers.
Alternatively, the Fitbit Charge 4 would be a similar offering to the Luxe, but comes with a lower price tag and support for Fitbit Pay.
How long will it last? Fitbit designed the Luxe to be water-resistant up to 50m, so the occasional shower or hand washing won’t do a thing to it. The rubbery band may wear over time, but thankfully it’s something that can be easily swapped.
For other defects that could happen, Fitbit offers a 1-year limited warranty that would cover them.
Should you buy it? Yes, if you really love its minimalist design. It tracks for nearly every major health metric at the moment, but it’ll also gain oxygen saturation monitoring with a future update.
Editors' Recommendations The future of Fitbit doesn’t look good The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid Best Prime Day Fitbit Deals for October 2022 Fitbit’s excellent sleep tracking is about to get even better Fitbit’s AFib detection is here and it could save your life Health & Fitness Wearables Fitbit Fitness Tracker Reviews Health & Fitness Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile If you've been around kids for a while, you know they love gadgets. Many parents are concerned their children are gripped by technology, but this doesn't always have to be a bad thing. Devices like fitness trackers can be useful for kids to encourage movement in a way that's actually fun, and they can help keep them fit and outside in a way not usually associated with technology as a whole. Intrigued? Here's a roundup of the best fitness trackers for kids.
Best fitness trackers for kids Fitbit Ace 3 Fan of Fitbit and want to get one for your kid? Consider the Fitbit Ace 3, a kids' version of the classic Fitbit fitness tracker. It tracks the number of steps taken, monitors movement, sends activity reminders, and even has bedtime alarms to make the parents' job easier. The tracker is waterproof so you don't have to worry about accidental spillage, and the kids can even take it swimming.
Mobile The Fitbit Luxe launched in July 2021 and was reviewed by our smart home editor, John Velasco, as a beautifully designed and modestly sized fitness tracker. It has now received two major updates bringing new features to the table.
Version 1.151.16 has added SpO2 measurements that allow users to track their blood oxygen saturation levels when asleep. SpO2 tracking is currently available in devices such as the Fitbit Charge 4, Charge 5, Fitbit Versa 2, and the Fitbit Versa 3, so it's nice to see it roll out to other devices in Fitbit's lineup. To use the function, check the SpO2 tile on the watch face or the Health metrics tab on the mobile app. Additionally, Fitbit has published a detailed manual on tracking Sp02 levels with this model.
The second major update enables always-on-display functionality. As the name suggests, users no longer need to wake up their Luxe trackers to check the time or their workout tracking data. To use the feature, it's essential to enable the updated display functionality in Settings. You'll be warned that the feature can increase battery drain, so keep that in mind if runtime is important to you.
The new Fitbit Luxe Fitbit Apart from these two updates, there are several smaller ones. A bigger font size has been added to the trackers' screen, along with a series of bug fixes and patches. These updates are being rolled out on an incremental basis and may take some time to reach particular regions. To check if an update is available for the device, you should be able to see a pink banner when you log into the Fitbit App, and you'll be notified of further updates once they're available.
Mobile Following a high-profile leak that spilled most of the beans, Google-owned Fitbit today announced the Charge 5, an upcoming addition to the company's lineup of fitness trackers. On the outside, the Charge 5 borrows heavily from the Fitbit Luxe, with a sleek, rounded, colorful display. Under the hood, though, is where you can find all the goodness.
Vibrant always-on display The most noticeable change in the Charge 5 is the always-on display that lets you check your health stats instantly and curves to fit the wristband. The always-on feature can be turned off to help you eke more battery life from the device. If you want to wake the display, all you need to do is raise your wrist.
Built-in GPS Similar to the Charge 4, the new Charge 5 will ship with built-in GPS to track your outdoor activities. Not only will you be able to view your activity on a map, but the Charge 5 will also display your workout intensity along the GPS track. You'll be able to see at a glance where you were pushing yourself to your limit and where you were taking it easy.
New stress-monitoring sensor The Charge 5 joins the Fitbit Sense as Fitbit's first trackers to feature an EDA sensor, which measures your sweat to monitor your stress levels. The sensor is used to generate a Stress Management Score to help you manage your daily stress levels.
Daily Readiness Daily Readiness is a new metric added to Fitbit's Premium service. Like Garmin's body battery, the Daily Readiness Score takes heart rate variability, sleep, and activity into account to calculate your overall energy level. This new metric determines whether you are ready for a crushing workout or an extra-long nap. Daily Readiness helps athletes manage their exercise and recovery schedule so they can get the most out of their activities.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
