Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides Tesla’s charging connector is taking over. Here’s every company that will switch By Christian de Looper Close Tesla It looks like the days of different charging connectors for different electric cars may be coming to a close. After years of Tesla using its self-designed NACS connector, and pretty much everyone else using the CCS connector, it seems like everyone will ultimately switch to the Tesla NACS port.
Car companies Charging companies Of course, that will take some time, and not every company has announced that they’re switching to the NACS connector just yet. When (and if) they do, however, there will be one unifying charging standard in the U.S., allowing any EV driver to go to any charging station. This should help alleviate much of the confusion around charging standards.
So which cars are set to get the NACS connector? Here’s a list of the companies that are switching so far, and when their new models will adopt the standard. Further down, we’ve also included news from the major charging station companies, which are also shifting to offer NACS plugs.
Toyota joins ‘the Tesla plug’ club Tesla recalls 130,000 U.S. vehicles over touchscreen safety issue Elon Musk takes Cybertruck for a spin ahead of important Tesla update Car companies Quite a few car companies have promised to adopt the NACS connector on their upcoming EVs. Here’s a list of them so far.
Ford Joel Patel / Digital Trends Ford was the first to announce that it was partnering with Tesla to adopt the NACS connector and switching away from the CCS connector. Ford says that EVs with the NACS connector will start rolling out by 2025, and it’ll offer an adapter for current-generation cars to charge at NACS-equipped charging stations “soon.” General Motors General Motors followed Ford’s lead, announcing that its brands would switch away from CCS to the NACS plug by 2025.
General Motors also said that it would offer a plug adapter by spring 2024, so that older EVs can take advantage of charging stations with NACS plugs. This switch will include the likes of Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick, and other General Motors brands.
Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz has said that it will switch to the NACS plug on its electric cars by 2025.
Nissan Nissan Nissan will switch from CCS to NACS “beginning in 2025.” That means it may be a little behind the other companies that have promised an NACS connector “by 2025.” In 2024, Nissan says that it will also provide an adapter for EV owners who have cars with a CCS port. It’s currently unclear if the adapter will be available for free, or an additional accessory.
Volvo Volvo has said that it will adopt the NACS connector, and will offer it on cars by 2025.
Polestar Image used with permission by copyright holder Polestar is a sister company to Volvo, so like Volvo, Polestar says that it will adopt the NACS connector by 2025.
Rivian Rivian is a major player in the EV space, and it too has said that it will adopt the NACS connector. Like other companies, Rivian says that it will offer cars with NACS connectors by 2025, but it will offer access to the Tesla Superchager network, via an adapter, by 2024.
Tesla Having created the NACS connector, all Tesla cars have come with the connector for years, and will continue to do so.
Charging companies It’s not just car companies that are set to adopt the new charging connector. With an influx of new cars that support NACS, chargers will need to make the switch as well. Here are the charger companies that are set to adopt NACS.
ChargePoint Image used with permission by copyright holder ChargePoint is a major player in the home and public charging space, and it was one of the first to start offering CCS chargers. Now, the company has said it will offer NACS plugs by the end of 2023 — though don’t expect all ChargePoint to offer NACS connectors any time soon. It will take a while before a large portion of ChargePoint chargers have NACS plugs.
Electrify America Electrify America is another major player in this space, and it’s the largest EV charging network in the U.S., outside of Tesla. Electrify America has said that it will offer NACS connectors across its 850 stations by 2025 — so expect to be able to use the connector with your new EV at an Electrify America station.
Editors' Recommendations Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug Tesla recalls 363,000 of its vehicles over safety issue Elon Musk to hand over first Giga Berlin Tesla cars on Tuesday Tesla recalls nearly a half a million vehicles over safety issues Tesla recalls 135,000 vehicles over touchscreen safety issue Tesla Cars Released in 2012, the Model S is the oldest member of the Tesla range. It's about to look a lot newer than its age suggests thanks to a much-needed update that brings a fully redesigned interior and a lot more power.
Not much has changed on the outside, and the sedan remains recognizable as a Model S. Look closely and you might notice stylists gave it a nip-and-tuck that brings a redesigned front bumper, small aerodynamic tweaks out back, and new wheels. Visually, it takes a well-trained eye to tell the latest evolution of the S apart from its predecessor.
Cars The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) has asked Tesla to recall about 158,000 Model S and Model X vehicles due to an issue with the touchscreen that could cause it to fail, compromising the safety of those inside. The request follows as investigation by NHTSA that began last year.
A touchscreen failure results in the loss of the vehicle’s rearview/backup camera, and also impacts its Autopilot advanced driver assistance system. Various audible chimes linked to turn signals are also affected, and drivers are unable to use windshield defogging and defrosting systems, which may decrease the driver’s visibility in inclement weather, increasing the risk of a crash, according to a letter posted online by NHTSA on January 13.
Cars Watch Live! Tesla's Annual Shareholder Meeting & Battery Day Tesla's long-delayed Battery Day event will finally push through on Tuesday, immediately after the electric vehicle maker's annual meeting of stockholders.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
