Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Fitbit Versa 3 Review: The perfect everyday, wear-and-forget fitness tracker By Andy Boxall Close $230.00 Very comfortable Simple to use Comprehensive health tracking Battery lasts a week Side button is awkward to press I put the Fitbit Versa 3 on more than 10 days ago and have pretty much forgotten it was on my wrist, meaning it has stayed there 24-hours a day, silently tracking my movements, sleep, and workouts. The way it has slipped into my everyday life is a testament to its simplicity and good design, and although it’s not really a smartwatch, it’s a definite step above basic fitness trackers. Let’s go into more detail about this excellent wearable.
Design Fitness tracking Software and battery Price and availability Our take Design The Versa 3 is a watch-like fitness tracker, rather than a full smartwatch. My review version has a simple black strap made from a material that feels similar to the synthetic rubber used for Apple Watch Sport straps, attached to the black aluminum case. It’s a 40mm case and just 12mm thick, so it can be worn under a cuff without being annoying, and the 42-gram weight means it’s entirely unobtrusive.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The straps are easily removed with a single button press, and a choice of a short or long strap is included in the box. I’ve stuck with the short strap, which fits my 6.5-inch wrist with a hole to spare and minimizes the amount of extra strap to tuck away. This has gone a long way to making the Versa 3 so comfortable to wear. It’s light and doesn’t get particularly hot or sweaty, and I’ve been able to wear it overnight to track sleep.
There is a single button on the side of the case which acts like a back control, but it’s not a physical button, more of a touch-sensitive panel. It’s set low on the case and is awkward to locate and press, and I still spend a few seconds feeling around for it. The 1.58-inch AMOLED touchscreen has a 336 x 336-pixel resolution and is sharp and very bright. The size is just right, it’s easy to interact with, information is displayed clearly, and it’s readable in most lighting conditions.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Fitbit almost gets everything right with the Versa 3, apart from the overall design. The basic shape and lines aren’t conventionally attractive, and it’s not something I would wear and show off. The simple look and choice of colors will elevate it above a fitness band for some, but because it’s not overtly stylish in any way, I’d rather go for the stealth black model and keep its existence under the radar.
Fitness tracking It’s hard to imagine what other features most people would need to track their health and activity above what’s offered by the Versa 3. It has a heart rate sensor on the back, can monitor blood oxygen (SPo2) levels, checks skin temperature, plus it has GPS, is swim-proof, and a wide range of workout tracking modes, some with automatic recognition. What it doesn’t have is an electrocardiogram (ECG), which comes with the more expensive Fitbit Sense wearable.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends My chosen watch face shows heart rate, steps, and calorie burn which is all the data I need at a glance. There are other, more comprehensive watch faces available too, although I struggled to find one that I thought looked good. To see more detail you either select the Today app, or just swipe up on the screen where it shows step count, distance traveled, floors climbed, active time, and sleep scores. If you choose to manually add calorie intake, water consumed, and even core temperature it shows these too. It’s all clear, concise, and easy to find.
Tracking workouts is similarly easy, and all the options are accessed under the Exercise app. I tracked a walk with the Fitbit Versa 3 and the Apple Watch SE , both using GPS. The Versa 3 showed a total distance of 1.58 miles, 243 calories burned, and an average heart rate of 97bpm. The Apple Watch SE recorded 210 total calorie burn, a 1.6-mile distance, an average heart rate of 99bpm. Both wearables showed the same GPS data, but the Versa 3 did lose the signal once. The differences between them are minimal, and at all other times, they have remained consistent with each other.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Compared to Apple’s Fitness app, the Fitbit app is far more comprehensive, with masses of detail for the more committed exerciser. However, it’s also accessible for someone who just wants the basics. The GPS maps show heart rate zones and pace, for example, showing where you worked hardest, but this is all found under a different tab and not mixed in with the general data.
For more in-depth detail you’ll need to pay for Fitbit Premium, the $10 per month subscription service. For most people though, this won’t be necessary. Watch faces are another area where further payment is an option, with many of the watch faces requiring a small fee to be paid before you can use them.
Software and battery I’ve used the Versa 3 connected to an iPhone 12 Pro using Fitbit’s app, and it’s also available for Android phones. I keep coming back to the fact the Fitbit is so easy to use, and this continues with the software. The app and the interface on the Versa 3 itself don’t take time to learn, aren’t hampered by odd user interface choices, and are mostly reliable too. The Versa 3 did fall over once though, getting stuck on the watch face. It needed placing on the charger and the button holding down for it to restart, which then cured the problem. The connection between the Versa 3, the app, and my iPhone 12 Pro has been great, and syncing takes just a few moments.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends However, it’s not a smartwatch. While Google Assistant responds to my voice and does what I ask, and the Versa 3 takes calls, it is terrible at providing notifications and never really feels a connected part of my smartphone like the Apple Watch does. Notifications can’t be interacted with, and although I’ve played with the settings multiple times, it still doesn’t alert me to all incoming messages properly.
There are plenty of additional features that up the value though, including Fitbit Pay, online-only Spotify playback and offline Deezer support, a Find My Phone alert, plus some short animated “Coaching” workouts to follow. That’s before looking at the community aspect of the Fitbit app, where you can challenge friends and join groups based around a common health goal. Perhaps the best thing here is that all these are optional, and none of the features are endlessly pushed as something you should do.
 Once again, it adds to the overall friendliness of the Fitbit, and you can get as involved as you like without pressure.
Previous Next 1 6 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Battery life is better than most smartwatches, but not as good as most fitness bands. The Versa 3 has lasted for seven days with all-day heart rate tracking and wearing it overnight, but without the always-on screen. Charging takes less than an hour using the included proprietary magnetic charging plinth.
Price and availability The Fitbit Versa 3 costs $230, or 200 British pounds, and is available to buy now from Fitbit, Amazon, and other retailers.
Our take The Fitbit Versa 3 may be one of the most comfortable fitness wearables I’ve ever put on my wrist. It’s a true wear-and-forget device, not just from a hardware perspective, but from the simple and effective fitness and health tracking tools, for day and night, too. Good though this all is, it also works against the Versa 3, because the boring design isn’t one you’ll be itching to show off.
Not really noticing the Versa 3 also highlights another of its strengths: convenience. It stays reliably connected to my phone, produces helpful and easily readable stats, and offers sensible features I may actually want to use including Google Assistant and call support. The GPS works without issue, and is another feature you don’t need to “think” about, it just works when you require it.
The Fitbit Versa 3 is massively appealing, provided you can live with the faceless design, and is truly one of the few wearables you can wear 24-hours a day without discomfort. The friendly, comprehensive functionality adds to its appeal. However, you can find almost all of what the Versa 3 does for a lot less money, or get something a lot better looking that’s a real smartwatch for not much more.
Is there a better alternative? If you’re not worried about the smartwatch-style design of the Fitbit Versa 3, but love the fitness tracking aspects including GPS, then the $130 Fitbit Charge 4 would be a cheaper alternative to consider. If you want a smartwatch more than a fitness band, the Apple Watch SE is our recommendation for iPhone owners, while Android owners should look at either the Samsung Galaxy Watch 3 , or the Mobvoi TicWatch Pro 3.
If the prices of all these alternatives are too high, then the Honor Band 6 and Xiaomi Mi Band 6 can both be found for about $50, and provide many of the same features. No, the software isn’t as slick as Fitbit’s, but you won’t mind for the price.
How long will it last? The Fitbit Versa 3 feels very durable, from the strong strap to the aluminum case, plus it’s water-resistant to 50 meters. The strap is easily replaceable, but does use proprietary fittings. Fitbit provides regular software updates, and recent versions have added new features, something unlikely to change for a little while yet, making the Versa 3 a good value buy if you want to use it long-term. There’s no reason to think it won’t last for more than two years.
Should you buy one? Yes. It’s a stretch to call it a smartwatch and the design is a bit boring, but otherwise, this is brilliant fitness tracking wearable you’ll be happy to wear and use every day, all day.
Editors' Recommendations The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid Fitbit Versa 4 vs. Fitbit Sense 2: Which new Fitbit wins? Fitbit leak reveals the upcoming Sense 2, Inspire 3, and Versa 4 How to reset the Fitbit Charge 3: Restarts and resets Fitbit Versa 3 vs. Apple Watch SE: Can Fitbit outrun Apple? Health & Fitness Wearables Fitbit Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Fitbit may be best known for its wearable fitness trackers, but it has now entered the third generation of its Versa smartwatch series. The Versa 3 is the direct successor to last year's Versa 2, and while it may now arguably be overshadowed by the Fitbit Sense (also released this year), it features built-in GPS, a new PurePulse 2.0 monitor, as well as support for Google Assistant and Alexa.
It seems to offer a better all-round package than its predecessor, but is it really the best Fitbit smartwatch of the two? To find this out, we compared the Fitbit Versa 3 and the Versa 2 across five categories. Hopefully, this will help you to decide which is the device for you.
Wearables Fitbit has a commanding share of the pricier end of the fitness wearables market with some of the best fitness trackers you can buy. The original Fitbit Versa marked a move into smartwatch territory, with a much larger, squared-off screen and a few extra features beyond health and fitness tracking. The Fitbit Versa 2 improved on its predecessor with a raft of new features including Alexa support, better sleep tracking, and Fitbit Pay in all models. Let's take a closer look at how these smartwatches compare.
Balking at the price tags? If so, be sure to delve into the best Fitbit deals and the best smartwatch sales available now.
Specs Mobile Fitness encompasses all ages, which is why it shouldn't come as a shock that companies are coming out with wearables for younger age groups. Today, Fitbit announced the Ace 3, its newest activity tracker for kids. Like its predecessors, the Ace 3 is designed to help kids get active and stay fit. The tracker's renewed emphasis on exercise is critical, especially now, when children are learning remotely more than ever. For many kids, active playground time at school has now been replaced by sedentary game time at home -- a trend most parents would like to reverse.
Parents who struggle to find new activities for their kids will appreciate the Fitbit Ace 3's gamelike approach to exercise. Kids are encouraged to reach 60 daily active minutes or 250 steps per hour. Animated watch faces change as children move closer to their activity goals and they are rewarded when a goal is reached. Kids can check their stats right on the tracker, while parents can monitor their children's progress using Fitbit's family controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
