Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Garmin Lily review: Fashionable fitness watch with a few shortcomings By Kelly Hodgkins Close $250.00 Stylish, classic look Pulse oximeter Outstanding sleep and wellness tracking Decent battery life Grayscale display No onboard GPS No music storage Smartwatches are typically built for function and not fashion, which is why the Garmin Lily stands out. With its slender styling and feminine color choices, the Lily has been carefully crafted with women in mind. Garmin hits the mark when it comes to appearance with the Lily, but surprisingly falls a bit short in features.
Petite size is perfect Creative, classic design Durable, but disappointing display Robust wellness tracking offsets missing features Our take Petite size is perfect There is little doubt that Garmin can make monstrous GPS watches, but the Lily shows that Garmin can successfully downsize, too. Its petite round face (34.5mm) and slim 14mm band make the Lily ideal for women. It fits my wrist perfectly and is among the most comfortable smartwatches that I have worn. I even prefer it over the Apple Watch SE , which has been a staple on my wrist for years.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Weighing a feathery 24 grams, the Lily is one of the lightest smartwatches on the market. It doesn’t weigh your wrist down and is slim enough that it doesn’t snag on clothing. You hardly even realize you are wearing it until it buzzes you with an incoming notification. Even though it’s small, the Lily delivers on battery life, lasting about four days in between charges.
Do old Pixel Watch bands fit the Google Pixel Watch 2? Xiaomi’s newest wearables may make you want to ditch your Apple Watch Garmin’s newest smartwatch could replace your Apple Watch Creative, classic design The Lily has a classic design that resembles a luxury watch more than your standard fitness watch. The band is delicate and the round display is framed by a thin aluminum or stainless steel bezel that is attractive and not flashy. Even the sport models, which have silicone instead of a leather band, share this classic, good look.
Though small, the Lily still delivers on battery life, lasting up to four days between charges.
When not in use, the Lily’s grayscale display disappears, leaving behind a patterned lens. The different colors have varying patterns and add a touch of class to the watch. The color choices are decidedly feminine but subdued, so it will match a variety of outfits. You can wear the Lily to work or for a night on the town and nobody will know it’s a fitness tracker.
Durable, but disappointing display The display is bright and easy to read, but its 16-level greyscale is a step down from the colorful OLED of the Apple Watch and the Garmin Venu. The Lily’s display is not bad; it’s just not as good as its competition.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The display is covered by Gorilla Glass 3, which resists scratching. After wearing the Watch for three weeks, the lens over the display is still flawless.
Robust wellness tracking offsets missing features Like most Garmin devices, the Lily is chockfull of wellness features, including stress monitoring and body battery energy tracking. It can even calculate your breathing rate and your blood oxygen level while you sleep. All the outstanding wellness tracking, sleep metrics, and widgets you expect from a Garmin watch are bundled into the Lily. Garmin does skimp a bit on the activity choices — there are only a handful of timed activities from which to choose. Though there are fewer choices than most other fitness watches, the included activities are broad enough to cover the basics for most people.
As great as it is at wellness, the Lily is missing some critical features. Don’t bother setting up Garmin Wallet, as you cannot use NFC contactless payments with the Lily. It also doesn’t have integrated GPS and instead uses the GPS on your phone to calculate distance and pace. Another disappointing area is music. The Lily does have a music widget that you can use to control the music playing on your phone. The watch lacks onboard storage so you cannot download music to the watch for offline listening.
Our take The Garmin Lily is ideal for a woman who wants to control her health and fitness with a decidedly feminine watch. The $199 price tag for the sports band and even the $249 for the classic leather model is worth it if you prefer fashion over features.
Is there a better alternative? If you are a woman looking for a very feminine or classic-style watch with basic fitness tracking, there is no better choice than the Garmin Lily. If you don’t mind a more generic look, you may find either the Garmin Venu or Fitbit Versa 3 a better option. Both watches offer an always-on AMOLED display, integrated GPS, and mobile payments for about the same price as the Lily.
How long will it last? The Garmin Lily has a strong feminine side, but that doesn’t mean it is soft. Like most Garmin watches, the Lily is as tough as nails and built to last for years. Garmin continually updates its watches with bug fixes and new features. If you do run into an issue, Garmin offers a one-year warranty.
Should you buy it? Buy the Lily if you are a woman who wants a fitness tracker that looks like a luxury watch.
Editors' Recommendations Polar’s newest smartwatch could be a Fitbit and Garmin killer The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid Garmin just launched a new $300 Apple Watch alternative The best fitness trackers in 2023: 12 best ones you can buy Garmin’s newest smartwatches steal one of the Apple Watch’s best features Health & Fitness Wearables Fitness Tracker Reviews Health & Fitness Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile If you’ve been thinking of buying a new fitness tracker, you have a wide selection of options to choose from. Fitbit is a name you're bound to have heard of, as it's one of the top brands in the fitness industry, with more than a dozen varieties of fitness trackers and smartwatches to suit different needs.
With that number to choose from, it's not hard to see why people might become overwhelmed when choosing between them. Thankfully, there are definitely Fitbits that excel in certain areas, and as such, it's not too hard to narrow down your choice to find the best Fitbit for you. We've done a bit of the work for you here by grabbing some of the best Fitbit options around, breaking them down, and pointing out what makes them so special. Here are the best Fitbits for 2023.
Mobile Garmin has announced a new ECG app for AFibVenu 2 Plus smartwatch users. This app is cleared by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and allows anyone with the Venu 2 Plus to record their heart rhythm and check for possible signs of atrial fibrillation (AFib) — making it the first Garmin wearable capable of ECG and AFib tracking. With the ECG app, users can record a 30-second ECG and then view the results immediately on the watch itself or save it for later in the Garmin Connect app.
“The ECG App is Garmin’s first FDA-cleared smartwatch feature, and we are thrilled to offer this revolutionary tool to our customers as another way to stay on top of their health,” said Dan Bartel, Garmin vice president of global consumer sales. “During the early stages of AFib, it’s common for symptoms to be infrequent, making it difficult to detect in a clinical setting. With the new ECG App, Venu 2 Plus customers can conveniently take an ECG recording anytime and optionally create a report of their results to share with their doctor later.” Mobile Google has thrown its hat into the smartwatch ring with the Pixel Watch, a flashy new Wear OS device on a playing field already occupied by veteran Android smartphone makers like Samsung, Moto, and Oppo.
The fact that Google makes it may be the most intriguing thing about the Pixel Watch. Coming from the company that created Android and Wear OS in the first place, not to mention its successful Pixel smartphone lineup, Google’s new smartwatch has been one of the most highly-anticipated wearables in years.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
