Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Garmin Quatix 6 Review: So much more than a boat watch By Mitchell Nicholson Close $699.99 Multiple fitness sensors Battery life Build quality Music storage Day to day usability Expensive Only one size No touchscreen Whenever a product has the words “marine” or “boat connectivity” in the description, I turn away as quickly as possible. These words are usually reserved for overpriced, niche items that are inundated with functionality I’ll never use. So when I got word the Garmin Quatix 6 would be arriving on my doorstep, my first thought was “I’m not going on a boat. How am I supposed to review it?” Setup and design Battery life Activity tracking Additional features Our take Thankfully, the Quatix 6 isn’t just a boat watch. It might be the best multisport smartwatch you can buy today.
Garmin’s Quatix 6X uses transparent solar panel to hit 24 days of battery life The ultimate guide to Garmin’s fitness trackers and smartwatches Setup and design While the packaging says Quatix 6, it’s essentially a variant of the Garmin Fenix 6 Pro that does everything the Fenix 6 Pro does. It just has a bunch of preloaded boating features thrown in.
Starting with the basics, the Quatix 6 monitors the usual suspects: Steps, calories burned, sleep, and floors climbed. It also connects to your iPhone or Android device to receive notifications. Such features are expected these days, but the Quatix 6 steps things up with GPS, a heart rate monitor, barometric altimeter, compass, thermometer, accelerometer, Pulse Ox, and gyroscope. What makes the Quatix 6 special isn’t that it has all of those sensors, but what it does with the data.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Garmin’s new interface is certainly an improvement over previous iterations. With multiple complications on the default screen, I get all the data fields I want without the face feeling cluttered.
Normally, I’m making some sort of sacrifice when picking “home” screens, but the Quatix 6’s multiple face options strike a balance between a clean aesthetic and information available at a glance. Meanwhile, the widget loop displays a list instead of taking up the whole screen, which allows for faster scrolling. These slight changes make for an interface that is less cumbersome.
Battery life Another slight change from previous models is the battery format, which now displays in days to recharge instead of percentage full. Battery life differs drastically based on your usage mode, with Garmin providing the following quotes: Smartwatch mode: Up to 14 days GPS mode: Up to 36 hours GPS and music: Up to 10 hours Max battery GPS mode: 72 hours Expedition GPS activity: 28 days Battery-saver watch mode: 48 days Having this kind of adjustability for battery usage is helpful when exploring, whether that be on the water or out in the wilderness.
The Garmin Quatix has a new model with built-in solar charging. This addition takes the Quatix’s already impressive list of features up a notch, improving battery life from 14 to 24 days. However, this new version starts at $1,149. It also comes with a titanium watch band.
Activity tracking Life on the water is the goal of the Quatix 6, and for that reason it comes preloaded with all sorts of widgets to help you transition from landlubber to sea dog in no time flat. With full connectivity of everything from your chart plotters, to autopilot control, and even Garmin’s Sail Assist, the Quatix 6 is ready to handle all your boating needs out of the box.
But like I said, the Quatix 6 is much more than a water dog — it’s a multisport pony that will up your fitness game no matter the activity.
In addition to the wilderness-navigating prowess shown by the Fenix 6S Pro in a previous review , the Quatix 6 can run you through at-home workouts including yoga, P ilates, strength training, and cardio, all with on-screen animations to guide you through the process. For the most part, these are extremely convenient and had me mixing in different workouts I normally wouldn’t have bothered looking up.
My only gripe is the noises the watch makes when switching between positions in yoga workouts. They’re shrill electronic beeps that are unwelcome when I’m trying to get my zen on.
I’m doing most of my training indoors these days, and the Quatix 6 has specific tracking for indoor cycling. Most of the time I’m looking to Zwift for my metrics, but the Quatix 6 can link up directly with my Wahoo Kickr to show power output and distance traveled without interrupting my Zwift workouts. This may seem a little redundant, but for anyone who’s headed down the rabbit hole of which apps to connect to your Strava, this is a nice addition that helps keep your data all in one spot.
If running, swimming or cycling are part of your weekly grind, the Quatix 6 will track your target pace with PacePro, provide new bike courses with Cycle Map, and monitor your swim efficiency in the pool. And if you’re into golfing, it comes preloaded with 41,000 golf courses.
To be honest, there are way too many functions to mention here, so if you’re interested in the full list, you can check it out over on the Garmin site.
The Quatix 6 can combine your activities and evaluate them using its many toold. With features like a heart rate sensor, GPS, and the Pulse Ox sensor — which estimates the amount of oxygen in your blood — the Quatix 6 can estimate your fitness level.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What I liked best about the Quatix 6, though, was the stress and body battery features. In all likelihood, this has more to do with the fact that I’m reviewing this watch during a pandemic.
 Still, paying more attention to my stress and energy levels was a nice change of pace.
That’s not to say I needed a watch to tell me I’m more stressed than usual, but when the Quatix 6 asked if I wanted to do a breathing exercise because it knew I was on edge, I was happy to be offered a reminder. This is a small part of the overall abilities of the Quatix 6, but for this journalist struggling to meet deadlines in a world that functions a little differently than it used to, it was a welcome addition.
Additional features The onslaught of functionality doesn’t stop at breathing exercises and sports. With 32GB of storage, the Quatix 6 can hold 2,000 songs, and since it’s Bluetooth- and Wi-Fi-compatible, you can stream from Spotify , Amazon Music , and more.
Another smart feature is Garmin Pay, which lets you set up a virtual wallet to make contactless payments.
Everything I’ve mentioned up until this point is, or can be, true of the same-priced $700 Fenix 6 Pro. The only difference is that the marine features automatically included with the Quatix 6 would need to be downloaded to the Fenix 6 Pro via the Garmin Connect app.
So why buy the Quatix 6 and not the Fenix 6 Pro? It all comes down to aesthetics.
With its “Captain Blue” silicone band, brushed stainless-steel bezel, and touches of red, the Quatix 6 gives off a far different vibe than its all-black tactical brother. Normally, I’m a fan of the all-black options, but the classy look of the Quatix 6 is a wonderful change from watches I’ve had in the past. If you’re looking to stand out even more, the Quatix 6 comes in a titanium version for $1,000, which steps things up with a sapphire crystal lens, titanium bezel and band, and a drop in weight from 83 to 72 grams.
Our take While you may not be aware of the Quatix 6, you should be. It has all the same functionality of the Fenix 6 Pro, with a different look that’s just as classy on a boat as it is on the trail or the gym.
Is there a better alternative? In the north of $500 price category, you’re looking at the best smartwatches available on the market, like the Apple Watch , Suunto 9 Baro, and Polar Vantage V Titan.
 A lot of this choice comes down to personal preference, price, and whether you’re willing to learn how different brands work.
The main strike against the Quatix 6 is the high price tag, which may kick it out of contention for a lot of people. But if you’re willing to be patient, Garmin watches go on sale quite often, more than most other brands.
How long will it last? Garmin watches are built to be thrown around, and the Quatix 6 is no exception. If previous experience is any indication, you’ll be wearing your Quatix 6 at least three to four years, at which point something shiny and new will catch your eye long before it lets you down or is phased out. The watch comes with a one-year limited warranty.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you can afford it, it’s arguably the most robust multisport smartwatch available today.
Editors' Recommendations The best Garmin watches of 2022 Garmin’s Fenix 6 GPS watches harness solar power for long-lasting adventures Wearables Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Mobile Amazon Fire tablets may not be as powerful as Apple's iPads and Samsung's Galaxy Tabs, but they remain very popular among shoppers because they're relatively affordable options that provide sufficient performance for day-to-day use. If you want to stick to a tight budget when buying from Black Friday tablet deals, you should consider going for one of the several models of the Amazon Fire tablet, available in Amazon Black Friday deals. To help you make a quick decision so you can finalize your purchase before the discounts go offline, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals for Amazon Fire tablets, including our favorite bargain.
Amazon has a ton of early discounts right now, including Amazon Echo Black Friday deals and Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals.
The best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
