Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Garmin Vector 3 smart pedals review: Data to make your head spin By Mitchell Nicholson Close $1,000.00 Easily swaps between bikes Cycling Dynamics Sleek and lightweight Accurate Durable Batteries aren't rechargeable Garmin Computer needed to get Cycling Dynamics Image used with permission by copyright holder Why would anyone want to spend a bunch of money on smart bicycle pedals? It should be easy to tell whether you’re pedaling harder or softer because you’re the one pedaling, right? Unboxing, Install, and Setup Design Cycling Dynamics Hidden Stats Rough Start Resolved Warranty information Our take After 200 miles with Garmin’s Vector 3 pedals , I can say that they do so much more than tell you if you’re smashing the pedals. From tracking my average wattage and left/right balance during long rides, to making pacing easier, to discovering I push on the outside of my right pedal (warranting a cleat adjustment) I’ve learned more about how I pedal in my last five rides with the Vector 3 pedals, than in the previous 20 without them.
Unboxing, Install, and Setup Out of the box, the Garmin Vector 3’s components are simple. Two pedals, two Look Keo cleats, some washers, spare gaskets, and manuals. Gone are the ridiculous Pods from the previous Vector 2 pedals. The Vector 3 pedals only take a 15mm pedal wrench to throw on, and then installation is complete.
Connecting the devices you may use with the pedals isn’t as simple. Through some trial and error, I found the best way to sort through this process was to: Start with the firmware update via the Garmin Connect app on your iOS or Android.
Set the crank length to match your bike’s cranks.
Once you’ve updated the firmware, turn off Bluetooth on your phone.
Connect to the pedals with your cycling computer using the ANT+ connection. If you use the Bluetooth connection you won’t get all the Cycling Dynamics information.
It was a bit of a headache getting everything to connect while the Bluetooth on my phone was still active, because the pedals wanted to stay connected to that Bluetooth signal, instead of switching to ANT+. One of the pedals wouldn’t properly connect, and calibration never fully finished. Once I figured this out, and forced my computer to connect via ANT+, it was smooth sailing.
Once you’re finished, there’s a simple calibration process that only requires you to unclip and the pedals do the rest. You should calibrate every couple of rides, and especially after the first ride, to make sure everything is reading correctly.
Design Fully redesigned from the previous model, the Vector 3 pedals are clean, sleek, and some of the lightest options available. Weight weenies should be happy, because the Vector 3 pedals come in at a combined 316 grams. In comparison, my Shimano Ultegra pedals come in at 260 grams. That bit of extra weight comes from the force-measuring tech neatly stowed away within the pedal spindle.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Also in the spindle is the battery compartment for the Vector 3 pedals. A design choice that may be an issue for some, the Vector 3 uses four LR44 batteries (two for each pedal). When most every other Garmin product I’ve used in the last several years use a rechargeable lithium-ion battery, the Vector 3 pedals don’t. I’m not sure why Garmin went this route, but the upside is that battery life is up to 120 hours and that’s a whole lot of bike rides. The downside is that if they do go dead while you’re traveling, or somewhere vaguely remote, you might not be able to find the LR44s you need.
Garmin stuck with the Look Keo cleats from the previous Vector 2 pedals. These will fit any normal road cycling shoes that have a 3-bolt attachment. Just be aware that spd/mountain bike shoes won’t work.
Cycling Dynamics Once I was pedaling, the amount of data that came in was staggering. First up was the power, displayed in watts, of which Garmin claims an accuracy of +/-1%. For the uninitiated, watts are essentially the measured amount of force your legs can put into the pedals.
Why is this important? Unlike training with your heart rate , or average speed, watts are completely unaffected by external factors. With watts, you always get consistent feedback regardless of how sluggish or strong you’re feeling at the moment, which makes them the most accurate measurement of your fitness on the bike. Knowing how many watts you average over a workout is a huge help in pacing longer rides, or understanding how much power you can put out in a sprint.
Seeing the amount of power you’re making is just the tip of the iceberg. Showing you exactly how you make power is where the Vector 3 pedals shine. In addition to the more standard left/right power balance and cadence captured by most other dual-sided power meters, the Vector 3 pedals compile additional metrics into what they call Cycling Dynamics.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Cycling dynamics include: PCO (platform center offset), which shows where on the pedal you are putting more pressure throughout the pedal stroke.
Seating/Standing Position to tell you how much time you spend in or out of the saddle.
Power Phase to tell you at which degrees throughout the pedal stroke you’re making power, and where your peak power is within that phase.
These metrics are certainly getting into the weeds for data nerds, but PCO can help you dial in your cleat position. Your seated versus standing time can help you compare against previous efforts to see where you were more effective, while power phase can help identify whether or not you’re getting the most out of each pedal stroke. Even more, all these stats can be broken down into averages throughout any point in your ride, like hill climbs or sprints sections, for further geeking out.
Hidden Stats After my first ride, I realized that the Torque Effectiveness and Pedal Smoothness features’ default setting is off. Strangely enough, there isn’t a way to turn it on unless you have a Garmin Edge compatible computer, like the Edge 520 plus.
 This means that if you’re currently rocking a Wahoo Elemnt , like I was for my first ride, you won’t be able to turn this on unless you can borrow a friend’s Garmin to enable it.
That’s a ridiculous issue, and in practice, I found that torque effectiveness and pedal smoothness were metrics I could barely understand let alone make useful changes with. I’m guessing that unless you’re an elite athlete, you’re not going to miss them.
If you don’t have a Garmin Edge device, what you will miss are the Cycling Dynamics features I mentioned previously. There is some hope on that front, though, because Garmin has released its Cycling Dynamics protocols to be used on third-party devices. At the time this article was written, only Trainer Road and Favero Electronics have adopted them. This is an odd problem to have, and vaguely indicative of the Vector 3 pedals’ somewhat tumultuous release.
The data you get while using a Wahoo computer isn’t quite as extensive as a Garmin, but it’s still plenty to work with.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The data acquired while using a Garmin Edge computer has the full suite of Cycling Dynamics.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Rough Start Resolved When the Vector 3 pedals first came, it were firmware and product support issues that gave the Vector 3 a bad first impression. Then, users had issues with intermittent power loss due to faulty battery doors.
Thankfully, the firmware has had some major updates, including a Bluetooth smart feature that lets you use the Vector 3 pedals for Zwift , and they’ve fixed the battery door issue and shipped new doors to previous Vector 3 owners.
While the release of the Vector 3 pedals may have been a little rocky, my experience was smooth. After my initial setup, the actual day-to-day use of the Vector 3 pedals proved simple and reliable. After 200 miles and counting, and I’ve had zero power or pedal-reading dropouts.
Warranty information The Garmin Vector 3 pedals come with a two-year limited warranty.
Our take The Vector 3 pedals bring an amazing amount of accurate information to riders in a neat and easy-to-use package. The initial issues with the Vector 3 pedals have been addressed, and with the current discounts available, they are some of the best value dual-side power meters available.
Is there a better alternative? The chief competitor is the Assioma Duo Favero.
 These weigh slightly less at about 300 grams for the pair, are cheaper at $644, have rechargeable lithium-ion batteries with 50-hour battery life, and have integrated Garmin’s Cycling Dynamics so you’ll get all the same info. The main difference is design, with the Favero’s housing all their tech in a pod that’s mounted to the spindle for a much bulkier overall appearance. Even bulkier are the PowerTap P2 pedals — they look ridiculous.
Another promising option is an upstart company called iQ.
 They’re promising most of the same functionality at a fraction of the price, but are still extremely new to the market.
While the Vector 3 pedals have had their issues, the amount of support and investment that comes from being a Garmin product is hard to not favor. While the other companies may be shaking up the power meter industry, there’s confidence in buying from a name like Garmin that shouldn’t be overlooked.
How long will it last? A big advantage of the Garmin is its repairability. The Assiomas inject resin into their meter housing in order to make it water and shockproof. This means if something goes bad, you’ll need to replace the whole unit. With the Vector 3, everything is stowed away within the spindle, making it much easier to repair and replace parts that go bad. This is a big reason why refurbished Garmin units are so readily available. On top of its physical design, the software engineering that Garmin does, and the subsequent firmware updating, is reliably some of the best in the industry.
Should you buy it? If I was doing this review at launch, when the Vector 3 pedals were only available for the MSRP of $1,000, I would have been hesitant. Now that you can find sales for new units at $750 and refurbished at $650, the Vector 3 pedals are a no-brainer.
Health & Fitness Outdoors Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Mobile The next evolution of wireless technology, Wi-Fi 7, has been hitting its stride in recent months. Now, MediaTek is giving it a big boost with a duo of new Filogic chips that will power a whole new generation of Wi-Fi 7-capable devices, from enterprise access points and wireless mesh systems to smartphones and set-top boxes.
Unsurprisingly, MediaTek was one of the first chipmakers on board when Wi-Fi 7 made its debut at CES 2022, promising to deliver top speeds more than twice as fast as current Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E technologies. While Wi-Fi 7 is still in its nascent stages — few consumer devices support it, and the spec has yet to receive its final ratification — MediaTek’s second-generation Filogic chips will ensure that smartphones, laptops, and routers are ready to deliver the best of what the new standard has to offer.
Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
