Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Garmin Venu Review: Sporty everyday By Mitchell Nicholson Close $350.00 AMOLED Display Activity Tracking Workout Animations Loads of Sensors Lack of in-depth fitness metrics Lack of storage The line between a smartwatch and a fitness watch continues to dissolve on a day-by-day basis.
Display Battery life Design Fitness tracking Guided workouts Stat tracking Warranty Our take It used to be that if you were interested in fitness you’d get a dedicated, nondescript fitness tracker with a super basic dot-matrix display (I’m looking at you, Nike FuelBand). Then Apple came out with their watch, and I remember thinking how silly it sounded. I mean, I already had a smartphone — wasn’t a smartwatch a little redundant? You can finally take ECGs and track AFib on a Garmin smartwatch Garmin’s new D2 Air X10 adds voice controls for $550 Fashionable Garmin Venu 2 offers up to 11 days of battery in smartwatch mode Oh how the times change, and there’s no better example of watch evolution than the Venu from Garmin.
Display The Venu is basically the same thing as the Vivoactive 4 — a multisport smartwatch that still has all the Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connections necessary for Android and Apple notifications. However, the Venu has a key difference in its display.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Venu’s 390 x 390 pixel AMOLED display blows the Vivoactive’s 260 x 260 MIP display out of the water. While their physical sizes are similar at 1.2 inches and 1.3 inches respectively, the Venu’s screen has a far crisper picture with darker blacks and an array of colors that are surprisingly vibrant.
The newfound vibrancy of the Venu is shown off by its active graphics and watch faces, which are far better than most Garmin wearables. The Venu’s heart rate graph alone is a rainbow of color that made me eager to get in a workout just so my metrics would be more fun to look at.
Battery life The only detriment of the AMOLED display is battery consumption, and you will more than likely end up frustrated if you don’t change the watch face setting to “always on” immediately.
I tried to live with the Venu on its default setting, which turns the display off automatically, to see if the battery life claims were true. Garmin claims 5 days of battery life in smartwatch mode and 6 days in GPS mode, or up to 20 days with both those modes turned off.
Yet I lasted just two days before I was infuriated with shaking my wrist like a crazy person to make the display light up. As a result, I set the display to stay on.
The penalty for the switch is more drain on battery life, but I still saw a little over 3 days of life with workouts every day, so this seemed like a worthwhile trade to maintain my sanity.
Design Not looking to weigh things down, the Venu comes in at a scant 43 grams with a 43.2 by 43.2 by 12.4mm body. The size took me a few days to get used to, as I’ve become accustomed to large watches. This may be a deal-breaker for some, but with the Venu’s sharp display, I don’t feel like I’m missing out.
One of the best things about the Venu is that it has a touchscreen display. This makes for a more intuitive experience as you scroll through activities and daily stats, and with two physical buttons on the side, the Venu hits a happy medium of universal usability and familiarity for existing Garmin users.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Adding to the Venu’s usability is the inclusion of Garmin Pay for contactless payments, and storage for up to 500 songs. That number seems a little low compared to the Venu’s rivals , but since you can stream Spotify, Amazon Music, or Deezer it’s not that big of a deal.
On top of these features, the Venu has a calendar, weather, music control for your smartphone, and all the notifications you can ever ask for. While the usual “smart” features are covered, where the Venu shines (and all of Garmin’s past experience comes into play) is fitness tracking.
Fitness tracking Garmin has loaded the Venu with sensors. On board is a GPS, heart rate monitor, barometric altimeter, compass, gyroscope, accelerometer, and pulse oximeter. This is nearly the same sensor array found on the higher-end Fenix 6 Pro , which also includes a thermometer.
All this sensitivity enables automated goals. The Venu learns your activity levels and starts setting daily goals based on your current activity. It can also track calories burned, floors climbed, intensity minutes, VO2 max, and energy and stress level estimates.
With all of this tracking, the Venu builds a fairly well-rounded look at your overall health and fitness. This is the ecosystem of metrics that diehard Garmin fans have come to know and love over the years, and with each firmware update, they continue to become more and more accurate.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The core competencies of the Venu lie in the usual suspects with running, swimming, and cycling. Running has pace and cadence tracking. Swimming has stroke detection, Swolf score, time, and distance alerts. Cycling has triggers for distance, time, and calories burned, along with the ability to connect with Garmin’s Varia radar and lights.
I had zero issues with tracking on any of the runs or rides I did. However, when it came to linking the Venu up with my indoor cycling trainer, it would connect but never recognize that I was pedaling. This wasn’t necessary, as the Venu still had my heart rate data, and I was tracking distance with Zwift.
 But it made for some odd workout logs that showed 0.00 miles.
Guided workouts The Venu isn’t just about tracking what you do. It can also guide you through workouts.
The most interesting are the animations available for Yoga, Pilates, Strength and Cardio workouts. While there are multiple workout routines available, the option to build out your own specific workouts are there as well.
These animations are helpful because they prompt you to try something different. It felt a little clumsy at first, as I found myself trying to keep an eye on the watch for the next yoga pose. Over time, however, I learned when to glance at the watch and when to concentrate on my form.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Once you’ve completed an activity, the Venu estimates your sweat loss based on the metrics it has been tracking. While I’m a little dubious about how accurate this stat is, it had me thinking more about my hydration after even the smallest effort.
After a two-mile walk, the Venu estimated that I lost 201ml. That’s not much, but having the reminder tell me I could use a little something to drink was a welcome bit of mindfulness.
Stat tracking For the stat junkies, the Venu has the all-important VO2 max score. Your VO2 max is essentially a measure of how well your body consumes oxygen, and is a relatively accurate way of establishing your baseline aerobic fitness.
True VO2 max tests are done by subjecting yourself to maximum efforts while your oxygen intake and carbon dioxide output are monitored with lots of tubes and expensive-looking medical equipment. I’m highly doubtful that the Venu can match a real VO2 max test’s validity, but most people won’t ever go to the extreme of getting a real test done, so the Venu’s estimate will have to do.
HR zones are what most people are going to be paying attention to, but I missed having more advanced metrics.
Unfortunately, the Venu is missing other important metrics that real fitness junkies will care about. Do you care about your current training or detraining status, whether you’re doing a base or threshold workout, or monitoring your weekly training load? Then keep moving, because the Venu doesn’t have any of that.
The Venu does have heart rate zones for managing efforts during workouts. HR zones are what most people are going to be paying attention to, but I missed having more advanced metrics.
I also missed route finding.
The Garmin Fenix 6 Pro’s navigation is one of its strongest features. The Venu, on the other hand, only tracks where you went, and has no idea how to tell you where to go. The only exception is golfing, since the Venu has access to 41,000 courses that can be downloaded via the Garmin Connect App.
While the lack of navigation is kind of a bummer, the Venu continues its list of features with items like a sleep monitor for tracking your REM and deep sleep, as well as Incident Detection that will automatically send your location to designated contacts if it detects a crash while on a bike ride.
Warranty Standard 1 year product warranty.
Our take The Venu has a solid list of features that will cater to the vast majority of people who are fitness followers, but not fanatics. While you may miss out on some navigation and in-depth training metrics, the Venu’s streamlined design and beautiful touchscreen make it well worth the $350 price tag, and finding it on sale will make it all the more worthwhile.
Is there a better alternative? The obvious alternative is the Apple Watch Series 5 at $400. Having the App Store available makes the Apple Watch extremely hard to beat if you’re already an iPhone user. But Garmin’s experience with fitness and the Venu’s touchscreen makes it a viable option for anyone not already fully engrossed in the Apple ecosystem.
How long will it last? Garmin makes tough as nails products, but the Venu doesn’t have a raised bezel, so scratches on the Gorilla Glass screen are more likely than usual. That said, the Venu should last for several years at least.
Should you buy it? Yes, if you use an Android phone. If you already own an iPhone, then pony up the extra cash for the Apple Watch Series 5, as its integration with the iPhone makes it a better choice.
Editors' Recommendations Garmin’s newest smartwatch could replace your Apple Watch Garmin swoops in with the pilot-focused D2 Mach 1 smartwatch Garmin launches the Venu 2 Plus and Vivomove Sport at CES 2022 REI slashes prices on Fitbit Versa and Garmin Fenix 5 smartwatches Wearables Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Mobile Amazon Fire tablets may not be as powerful as Apple's iPads and Samsung's Galaxy Tabs, but they remain very popular among shoppers because they're relatively affordable options that provide sufficient performance for day-to-day use. If you want to stick to a tight budget when buying from Black Friday tablet deals, you should consider going for one of the several models of the Amazon Fire tablet, available in Amazon Black Friday deals. To help you make a quick decision so you can finalize your purchase before the discounts go offline, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals for Amazon Fire tablets, including our favorite bargain.
Amazon has a ton of early discounts right now, including Amazon Echo Black Friday deals and Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals.
The best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
