Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Garmin Vivomove Style Review: Smart, timeless, quirky By Mitchell Nicholson Close $349.99 Timeless aesthetic Robust Garmin Connect App Hands move to show stats HR and Pulse Ox Sensors No buttons Dull AMOLED displays Finicky gesture control Image used with permission by copyright holder Fitness watches tend to have a distinct look: Chunky, brightly colored, rubberized. You’re sending a message to the world that you make fitness a priority — or, at least, that you buy the stuff that makes fitness look like a priority.
Deceptive look Disappointing screen Our take For some, sending that message is part of the appeal. I’ll be the first to admit that throwing on a watch that could help me sail around the world makes my day feel a little more intrepid, even when I haven’t left my neighborhood in weeks. But if you aren’t the type to sport a 26.2 bumper sticker, the Garmin Vivomove Style may be for you. It promises all the inner workings and data of a fully fledged fitness tracker and smartwatch, with none of the look.
The Garmin Vivomove Trend is a powerful smartwatch with a sleek disguise Garmin’s $150 Vivosmart 5 fitness band has some stiff competition Garmin Forerunner 45 vs 35: Is the striking new style enough reason to upgrade? When I first got my hands on the Vivomove Style, I was shocked at how light it was. With the nylon strap, the timepiece comes in at a minimal 35 grams. With a 42 x 42 x 11.9mm case size, I was expecting it to be heavier, especially considering all the tech that gets packed into it, but the all-aluminum build makes for a watch that is the opposite of chunky. While the unit I reviewed had the “Black Pepper” nylon band, the Vivomove Style has a few different options available in terms of case color and band choice. For those looking to up the quality a bit, there’s also a Vivomove Luxe line, which features stainless steel cases and upscale band options.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Deceptive look At first glance, the Vivomove Style’s face looks incredibly simple. With physical hands and nothing that alludes to any smart functions, it looks like a basic run-of-the-mill wristwatch. But these looks are quite deceiving. The Vivomove Style is a touchscreen, and at the top and bottom of the watch face are AMOLED displays for showing customizable data fields. The AMOLED displays are indistinguishable from the watch face, so you don’t get the usual obvious transition from screen to non-screen area, which makes the covert nature of the Vivomove Style possible.
When you move your wrist to bring the watch to your face, the screen lights up with two data fields for a quick glance at some preselected stats. The gesture control works most of the time and has the option to be turned off completely, kept on during an activity, or always left on. When it doesn’t work, it gets frustrating quickly. The Garmin Venu had the same issue, but the saving grace was the “always on” option for its AMOLED screen. The Vivomove Style doesn’t get this option. You can double tap the face to wake it up, but it diminishes the covert nature of the Vivomove Style, and instead makes it look like you think your watch is broken.
Tapping away at the top and bottom of the glass allowed me to navigate more easily, but this took the better part of three days to get used to. Even then, sometimes my taps weren’t always registered by the screen, and my once pristine, incognito smartwatch was covered in fingerprints, which drove me nuts. It really begs the question, why no buttons? A single button on the side would do a lot to alleviate some of the frustration I had with the touchscreen. But alas, the Vivomove Style is buttonless, and not better for it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Once the displays are on, you can swipe to see everything that the Vivomove Style has to offer. This is where the Vivomove Style and the whole Garmin suite of tracking abilities shine. You’ll find the usual stats like steps taken, floors climbed, calories burned, and heart rate, as well as smart notifications for iPhone and Android.
 Anyone familiar with Garmin’s metrics will be happy to see Auto Goal, which learns what your current activity is and sets daily goals to push you. Sleep monitoring, intensity minutes, body battery, stress tracking and VO2 max are also included, as is hydration monitoring. These metrics are what make joining the Garmin ecosystem worth it.
The Vivomove Style pulls a neat party trick to display the data: The physical watch hands move to indicate your status, among the different levels of heart rate zones, battery, etc. While this isn’t really necessary, after two weeks of playing with the Vivomove Style, I still get a kick out of the interaction between the physical hands and the AMOLED screens. Of course, that means the watch hands are no longer telling the time. If this bothers you, you can manually lock them to show time during an activity, versus your heart rate, but you’ll need to do it again every time you start a new activity.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Disappointing screen On Garmin’s Venu, the AMOLED displays are a thing of beauty. On the Vivomove Style, they’re a bit dull. I’m not sure if it’s due to the gap between the touchscreen and the surface of the AMOLED, but it’s not nearly as clear as the Venu. The AMOLED displays also eat up more battery than the standard memory in pixel (MIP) display used by other Garmin watches. I was getting around four days of battery life with daily workouts, and I can only wonder how much more life I would have gotten had Garmin used different displays.
The Vivomove Style includes a heart-rate monitor, barometric altimeter, accelerometer, and Pulse Ox sensor. In lieu of having its own GPS unit, the Vivomove Style relies on your smartphone’s GPS for location information — which means you’ll need to have the Garmin Connect app running in the background for route tracking, distance, and speed information. This makes starting up activities like walking, running, biking, or swimming a bit more cumbersome because it requires that you pull out your phone if the Connect app isn’t running.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Once you’re in an activity, the Vivomove Style does a good job of tracking you, with runs including cadence, time, pace and distance timers. Meanwhile, weight-training activities have a rep counter and swimming has underwater heart rate tracking. There are a number of other activity profiles available on the Vivomove Style, but none are terribly robust in the metrics provided. The Vivomove Style is great for training with heart-rate zones, but if you’re looking for more detailed data like swim stroke analysis, auto pausing, or training plans, you’re going to need to look elsewhere.
Garmin covers the Vivomove Style with a standard one-year warranty, which includes defects, but not cosmetic flaws like scratches and dents, or accidents.
Our take The Vivomove Style may be the most subtle fitness watch you can buy today. But the concessions it makes to style, including the lack of any physical buttons, also make it trickier to use. It gets the job done due in large part to the comprehensive Garmin Connect App, but could use a little more polish to its interface.
Is there a better alternative? The Fossil Hybrid Smartwatch HR is the closest thing to the Garmin’s ability, and it falls short on features like touchscreen, customizable data fields, and the know-how of the Garmin Connect app.
How long will it last? Garmin products are built to last and I have no doubt the Vivomove Style can take a beating for at least a few years.
Should you buy it? If you hate the look of standard fitness trackers and smartwatches, yes. The Vivomove Style is a very handsome option that, while quirky, has a great array of health sensors and a saving grace in the Garmin Connect app.
Editors' Recommendations Polar’s newest smartwatch could be a Fitbit and Garmin killer You can finally take ECGs and track AFib on a Garmin smartwatch REI slashes prices on Fitbit Versa and Garmin Fenix 5 smartwatches Garmin Forerunner 245 versus 235: Do maps and music make the step up worthwhile? Before buying a Fitbit, check out these Garmin fitness trackers under $100 Wearables Fitness Tracker Reviews Health & Fitness Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Wearables Gone are the days when Garmin was only producing car or boat navigation devices. Now the company offers a full array of fitness trackers and smartwatches to complement its automotive and marine navigation devices. Garmin has wearables for a wide range of activities including aviation, hiking, maritime activities and fitness pursuits. Some are big, some are small, some are powerful, and some are basic. No matter what you need, Garmin likely has a wearable to suit you. Below is a roundup of all of Garmin's current products so you can find the right one for you.
Rugged watches for hiking and trail running Garmin's outdoor watches are known for their rugged exteriors, multisport activity tracking, and abundance of navigation features. Each watch in the series has almost everything you would need for a successful trip into the backcountry.
Mobile A new year approaches, which means a new slate of smartphones will start to hit in a few months. One of the first that we’ll see in 2024 should be from OnePlus with its flagship OnePlus 12.
The OnePlus 11 is an excellent phone, as we indicated in our review. It’s one of the best phones you can get in 2023, and is right up there with great competitors like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, Google Pixel 8 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
Mobile If you were hoping that the recently released Apple Watch Ultra 2 will appear with a discount in this year's Black Friday deals, you're in luck because the smartwatch's 49mm, GPS + Cellular model is currently $60 off from Amazon. From $799, the wearable device is down to $739 -- it's still not cheap, but it's rare to enjoy savings when buying an Apple product that's just a couple of months old. There's no telling how long the offer will remain online though, so before it gets taken down, push through with your purchase.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra 2 We tagged the Apple Watch Ultra 2 as the best premium smartwatch for the iPhone in our list of the best smartwatches, and at first glance, it's obvious why. The 49mm titanium case and Always-On OLED touchscreen will catch anybody's attention because of their size and brightness, while the wearable device itself is very fast and smooth because it's powered by Apple's new S9 chipset. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 can last up to 36 hours on a single charge that may be extended to up to 72 hours in Low Power Mode, and it offers a comprehensive suite of health-related and fitness features. It also comes with the customizable Action button for a more convenient way of accessing your apps.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
