Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Garmin Vivosmart 5 review: Aces the software, fails design By Andy Boxall Close $150.00 Detailed Garmin Connect platform Comprehensive sensor array Lightweight and comfortable Accurate health and sleep tracking Disappointing battery life Generic design I’m usually the first to call out companies that seem to ignore design , or put it way down the list of importance when making a new wearable. I think it’s crucial that a product we put on our bodies be at least vaguely attractive. But I’m willing to go easy on Garmin, as although the Vivosmart 5 fitness tracker is terribly generic to look at, it gets the other most important aspect of wearables — the app — exactly right. Let’s talk about how a superb user experience saves the Vivosmart 5 from being passed by.
Design Health tracking Activity and sleep-tracking comparisons Operating system and notifications Battery Price and availability Our take Design The Garmin Vivosmart 5 is functional, not beautiful. The dimpled silicone strap contains the Vivosmart 5’s main module, which has a small monochrome OLED screen and a single physical button on it. My review model is black, but you can get other colors to brighten it up, plus the polycarbonate module can be easily removed from the band and swapped with one of the replacements Garmin sells for $30.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s as simple and nondescript as they come, especially in boring black. I want to hide it under my cuff, but because the case is quite bulbous, it never fits under it comfortably. An oddly specific issue with comfort that may only affect me is that the keeper does not want to let go of the strap when trying to take the Vivosmart 5 off, and it insists on painfully grabbing my arm hair in a bid to stop me from abandoning it. It makes me rip it off like a Band-Aid.
Garmin’s $150 Vivosmart 5 fitness band has some stiff competition Amazon slashes prices on the entire line of Garmin Fenix 5 smartwatches Garmin Forerunner 245 versus 235: Do maps and music make the step up worthwhile? The small OLED screen has an acrylic lens over it and a basic 154 x 88 pixel resolution. It is bright enough to be seen in sunlight, and the touchscreen is sensitive and reliable. The physical button will please those who didn’t like the haptic button on the Vivosmart 4 , but it does age the new model’s design. I’ll take that trade-off here though, because it makes using the Vivosmart 5 so easy, with a quick press to select features and a long pressing to end a workout.
Garmin offers the Vivosmart 5 tracker in two different sizes, one for small-to-medium wrists and the other for large wrists. There’s a slight variation in weight, but at 26 grams at its heaviest, there’s no fatigue from wearing it all the time. For reference, I’m wearing the large size on my 6.5-inch wrist and have the buckle on the sixth hole, leaving 14 available, so there’s tons of adjustment.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Fitness trackers are rarely beautiful, but for those who care about design, it’s possible to find one that looks good. Garmin itself has the Vivomove Sport if you prefer a watch-style look, or there’s the Fitbit Luxe if the fitness tracker style is more for you. The Vivosmart 5 risks being overlooked due to its basic design, and as we will see, that’s a shame.
Health tracking The Vivosmart 5 has a comprehensive sensor array to measure your heart rate every second and watch out for abnormal changes, plus it measures your blood oxygen levels and tracks stress and sleep. All of the data from your daily activities, workouts, and sleep are collated in the Garmin Connect app, available for iOS and Android. I have been using the Vivosmart 5 connected to an iPhone 13 Pro.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Garmin Connect is brilliant. It’s the reason you should be considering the Vivosmart 5. It’s throughly comprehensive and data-packed, providing deep insight into your body’s state and performance. It does all this for free — there’s no subscription model to access special features or historical data here — which is a big bonus over the competition from Fitbit. Yes, it’s a little intense in terms of the amount of information available, but I’d rather have too much than not enough.
Tracking a 50-minute walk provides pace, speed, timing, and heart rate data, plus calories burned, average temperature, and workout intensity information. The Vivosmart 5 does not have its own GPS and relies on your phone’s GPS for location data. It connected to my iPhone, but it requires opening the app first if you don’t allow it to have access to your location all the time. Once the GPS connected, I could put my phone back in my pocket. The map plotted afterward adds pace information, a breakdown of laps, ambient temperature, and elevation to the overall picture of your workout.
There’s really everything you could want or need. Certainly for me, a casual exerciser, it’s total overkill. I take this to mean the more dedicated person will find all the information they could want. In addition to walking, the Vivosmart 5 has running, cardio, strength, cycling, pool swimming, HIIT, and a variety of other workout-tracking modes.
Goals can be set manually, but by default the platform automatically adds goals for you to meet. They are set quite low, and changing them means digging through various menus to find the option. Connect can be quite complex to navigate and there are various ways to find the same data, making it feel busier than it really is.
Previous Next 1 9 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends My favorite stat is Garmin’s clever Body Battery. It takes stress, sleep, and heart rate variability into account to help gauge your energy reserves for the day, and to better understand how much effort you’ve put into your workouts. It’s informative and simple to understand, and helps make sense of data that otherwise can get glossed over or ignored.
The only downside is there isn’t much motivational feedback, and while there is a lot of explanatory text about what all the data means, you do have to actively go looking for it.
Activity and sleep-tracking comparisons Putting the Vivosmart 5 against the Apple Watch Series 7 when tracking a 40-minute walk, I found that both matched on the average heart rate and total calories burned, suggesting the accuracy across both devices is good. Across other workout types, the devices usually matched up too, but it’s important to have the Vivosmart 5 tightly against your wrist for precise heart rate tracking. If it’s even a little loose, it can misread, something that affects blood oxygen readings and heart rate overnight.
It’s this depth of data that makes wearing the Vivosmart 5 worthwhile, even if the design doesn’t initially make you keen to strap it on.
Comparing the Vivosmart 5’s sleep tracking with the Oura Ring , the Garmin tracker recorded a longer period of “sleep” than the Oura Ring, as it did not recognize when I was awake in the morning. However, the Oura Ring continues to think I’m awake during the night when I’m not, something the Garmin avoids.
The Garmin gave my 7-hour, 42-minute sleep a 95/100 sleep score, while the Oura measured 7-hours, 21-minutes for an 83/100 score. The heart rate estimate was very different from the Oura, with the lowest recorded being 9 beats per minute, which seems unlikely, as the Oura Ring didn’t see anything lower than 47brpm. The sleep-tracking discrepancy would almost certainly be cured by wearing the band more tightly, but I find this uncomfortable. Worn loosely, I didn’t notice the Vivosmart 5 at all at night.
Operating system and notifications The Vivosmart 5 is controlled using a touchscreen and a single button on the front. Your current stats are all hidden under a branched menu, so you have to swipe and tap a few times to see them. Press the button to access the main menu and find workouts, as well as the heart rate measurement feature, a way to change the watch face, and set timers. It’s very responsive, and once you’re used to the layout, it’s fast to find what you’re looking for.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Notifications have arrived reliably, but there’s no way to interact with them, and due to the small screen, the formatting is usually off. It means they’re fine for a glance, but not much more. Plus, they can’t be recalled, so if you miss the alert, you can’t check to see what it was. Notifications are very much a secondary feature and don’t match the ability provided by a full smartwatch.
Battery Garmin says the Vivosmart 5 will give you up to seven days of battery life. This is only if you decide not to activate blood oxygen monitoring and track your sleep. If you do track them, then expect a rather pitiful three days maximum with a single daily workout lasting 30-to-50 minutes tracked. On average, the Vivosmart loses about 15% battery overnight.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends This is a problem because the Body Battery feature, which I really like and consider a big part of the Vivosmart 5’s appeal, takes your sleep into account. Also, blood oxygen levels are helpful for many different aspects of health tracking. Not using either or both of them feels like a bit of a waste. Put simply, Garmin’s seven-day battery estimate just doesn’t apply to anyone actually planning to use the Vivosmart 5 in the way it’s intended.
It’s charged using an included proprietary cable and takes a couple of hours to go from under 10% to full.
Price and availability The Garmin Vivosmart 5 is available to buy now through Garmin’s online store for $150, or 130 British pounds, regardless of whether you get the small/medium or large version. You can choose a black, white, or Cool Mint color, and purchase a replacement band for $30 or 25 pounds.
Our take The Garmin Vivosmart 5 is all about the Garmin Connect platform. The fitness tracker itself is very plain to look at, but there’s beauty in the data it collects and presents in the app. The tracker has a simple-to-use touchscreen and button-controlled interface, and while the app is data-dense, it’s unlikely you’ll be left wanting more from it.
It’s this depth of data that makes wearing the Vivosmart 5 worthwhile, even if the design doesn’t initially make you keen to strap it on. Because it’s so comprehensive, there’s plenty of scope for the future should your fitness level improve and you find yourself wanting to do more or try new sports. This is also true for the hardware itself, which has all the right sensors to keep track of your health over time.
It’s easy to use and inconspicuous on your wrist, and I’ve found the insights it provides interesting and helpful. It’s just a shame that the design is terribly generic, and that the battery life is too short when you take advantage of its full ability.
Is there a better alternative? Yes, if design matters to you. The Vivosmart 5’s boring look puts me off, and I’d rather wear the Vivomove Sport smartwatch.
 It uses the Garmin Connect platform so you have access to all the same excellent data, plus it has the same sensor array, all inside a far more attractive watch-style case. It’s only a little more expensive at $180, or 150 pounds.
If you’re set on a fitness band the Fitbit Luxe has similar specs for the same price, and the more expensive Fitbit Charge 5 comes with onboard GPS, but you will have to pay the monthly subscription for access to all your data. If you want to spend less money on a fitness band, take a look at the Xiaomi Mi Band 6 or the Honor Band 6.
How long will it last? The Garmin Vivosmart 5 is made of polycarbonate and silicone, so it should prove hardwearing, plus it’s swim-proof for use in the pool. You shouldn’t have any problem with durability. Provided the Garmin Connect software is supported long-term, which I imagine it will be, the Vivosmart 5 should last for many years.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Garmin Vivosmart 5 may not have much style, but the excellent Garmin Connect software makes up for it, and you’re not charged extra to see all your data.
Editors' Recommendations You can finally take ECGs and track AFib on a Garmin smartwatch Fitbit Charge 5 adds sweat-based stress sensor, rounded design REI slashes prices on Fitbit Versa and Garmin Fenix 5 smartwatches Before buying a Fitbit, check out these Garmin fitness trackers under $100 The ultimate guide to Garmin’s fitness trackers and smartwatches Fitness Tracker Reviews Health & Fitness Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Mobile Amazon Fire tablets may not be as powerful as Apple's iPads and Samsung's Galaxy Tabs, but they remain very popular among shoppers because they're relatively affordable options that provide sufficient performance for day-to-day use. If you want to stick to a tight budget when buying from Black Friday tablet deals, you should consider going for one of the several models of the Amazon Fire tablet, available in Amazon Black Friday deals. To help you make a quick decision so you can finalize your purchase before the discounts go offline, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals for Amazon Fire tablets, including our favorite bargain.
Amazon has a ton of early discounts right now, including Amazon Echo Black Friday deals and Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals.
The best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
